 Make sure that it smooth and has no tangles or teasing, as this will make your hair more difficult to remove from the headband style.









Your hair can be wet or dry for this style and will need several hours to set. If your hair is dry, you’ll need to prep it beforehand with hairspray or some kind of styling product.
Avoid styling your hair with heat prior to trying this method of curling. Allow your hair to be in its natural form.
Make sure your hair is parted down it’s normal line, so that the curls you create will fall to the correct side.
 It should be laying over the top of your hair, not under it.









Use a headband that is no wider than ½ an inch thick and is elastic.
Avoid using a headband that is cylindrical, as this will be more likely to roll off the top of your head.
Don’t use a headband with any beading, sequins, or adornment, as your hair will get caught and become incredibly difficult to remove.
 Starting at the front of your head, take pieces of hair about one inch thick, and twist them until they become very tight and rope-like. Then, wrap them around the headband towards the back of your head.









Try to keep the curl tightly wrapped around the headband in a spiral, so that it does not take up too much of the available space on the headband.
Repeat this process from the front, all the way around to the back of your hair.
For smaller spiral curls, use thinner strands of hair. For big, bouncy curls, increase the size of the hair sections you wrap.
 As with most heat-less curling methods, it is easiest to let the curls set overnight. Wait at least six hours before taking off the headband.
 Once your hair has been given enough time to hold its curl, it is safe to take of the headband. Start by unravelling the strands of hair at the back of your head towards the front. The curls will probably start out very tight, but don’t worry as they will relax over time.
 Depending on your desired curl-tightness, you may prefer not to brush out curls too much. To give these curls a more natural appearance, finger-brush them or gently comb them to break apart the strands.









Use a texturizing hairspray or pomade to give a natural appearance to the curls.
Use hairspray to set the style.

