 Lawyers counsel their clients about their rights and advocate on their behalf. There are many kinds of lawyers. Some of the more common include the following:Criminal defense lawyers represent clients accused of crimes. They negotiate plea bargains, try cases, and sometimes handle appeals.
Prosecutors represent the government and prosecute people accused of committing crimes.
Civil attorneys research arguments, draft motions, and gather evidence. They handle non-criminal matters like divorces, slip-and-fall cases, and medical malpractice suits. Civil attorneys don’t go to court as often as criminal attorneys, but they can handle trials.
Transactional attorneys help clients with business or personal transactions, such as starting a business, purchasing a house, or writing wills. They counsel clients and draft the necessary legal documents.;
, In the United States, you must have seven years of education to become a lawyer. This consists of a four-year undergraduate degree in any field and a three-year JD degree.


You can study anything as an undergraduate.However, future employers might look for certain experience. For example, if you want to be an intellectual property lawyer, then firms will look kindly on a hard science or computer science background.
You should attend a law school accredited by the American Bar Association. Some schools offer part-time programs, and a few offer accelerated two-year programs.
Also try to get into the highest-ranked law school that you can. At least initially, the quality of your law school will limit or increase your employment options. As time passes, the reputation of your law school will diminish in importance.
 Lawyers must be given a license by the state where they want to practice. Typically, you will have to pass a two-day bar exam. The exam will consist of a multiple-choice test and then essay questions.You also must show that you have the necessary good character to work as a lawyer. Generally, you shouldn’t have any criminal record or financial problems such as bankruptcy.If you do have a problem, the character and fitness committee will want to talk to you to see if you have reformed.
It’s illegal to hold yourself out as a lawyer unless you have a license from the state. Accordingly, you can’t move around easily as a lawyer.
 At some point, you may need to specialize. For example, you might want to be a divorce lawyer or you may want to represent criminal defendants. Few attorneys are generalists anymore. Instead, they find a specialty and do most of their work in the field.


Your specialty might influence the classes you take in law school. For example, if you want to be a divorce lawyer, you can take a class in family law.
 Begin looking immediately for jobs. In many schools, employers will visit your campus to hire summer associates. These people work in the summer before their 3L year. However, you will apply and interview in the summer or fall before the start of your 2L year.


Contact your school’s Career Center for a list of firms that come onto campus to interview. Typically, you supply a resume and copies of your law school transcript. If the firm likes you, they will invite you back to the firm to interview with other lawyers.
Generally, you need very high grades to get a summer associate position. You also probably have to attend a highly-ranked school.
 You can talk to other lawyers about the field. Choose alumni from your law school or undergraduate who practice the type of law you want to practice. Call the person or send an email and ask if they can meet with you to talk about their law practice.


Clarify that you are not seeking a job. The purpose of the interview is simply to learn information and hopefully make a good impression on the person.
Prepare a half dozen questions to ask. Open-ended questions are best.For example, “What’s a typical day in divorce litigation?” is open-ended. Asking “do you go to court often?” is not.
Show that you are engaged by writing down the answers.
Remember to dress professionally and act as if you are on a job interview. You want to make the best impression possible.
Before leaving, thank them for their time. Also ask if there is anyone they know who you should meet with.
 Smaller firms can advertise at any time. They usually can’t plan their hiring needs in advance. If you find an opening, you should submit a resume, writing sample, and transcripts. Jobs are advertised in a variety of places:


Your law school’s Career Center. They may have a job bank you can search.
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Craigslist
Your state’s bar association website. You probably have to become a member before you can access it.

