 Extend your arm straight out so that it is perpendicular to the rest of your body.


You can work with either the left or right arm.
It is easiest to take an accurate measurement for your Armhole if you have a second person helping you. Your helper will need to use the tape measure while you keep your arm in position.
If you do not have a helper to assist you, it might be easiest to measure the Armhole of your non-dominant arm while using your dominant hand to hold and maneuver the tape measure. You should stand in front of a full-length mirror, as well.;
, Position the starting (zero) end of the tape measure flat against the the center of your shoulder. Draw the tape measure down over the front of your shoulder and arm, pausing once it hits the center of your armpit.


This measurement is sometimes referred to as your Armhole depth.It is not a full Armhole measurement, however, so you should keep going if you need the full measurement instead of the depth measurement.
Keep the tape measure flat against your body. It should also be vertically straight along the front of your body.
 Continue wrapping the tape measure around your arm and shoulder, drawing it up from behind your shoulder until it meets the starting end.This measurement is your full Armhole measurement.
The tape measure must be vertically straight along the back and front of your shoulder. Make sure that it also lies flat against your body.
Note that your full Armhole measurement should be twice as large as your Armhole depth. Since it may not be exactly twice as large, though, it is best to take the actual measurement instead of mathematically doubling the depth measurement.
 With the tape measure held in place, move your arm around. Rotate it back and forth, then up and down. The tape measure should not be tight enough to restrict the movement of your arm in any way.


As a general rule, place two fingers underneath the measuring tape and against your body as you take the measurement. Do not stretch the tape, either. Following these two precautions should prevent the Armhole from being too tight.When in doubt, a measurement that is slightly too large is better than one that is too small.

