


This can be difficult, especially if your previous coping method was to ignore the issue, but in order to heal you have to acknowledge that you are wounded.
Don't forget grieving is healthy, but don't dwell on the problem.  Accept what has happened but don't mope around feeling sorry for yourself all day.;
,


Decide what you can do to fix the issue.  Be completely honest with yourself.  Sometimes it can help to come up with ridiculous ideas to soothe yourself (I could summon a genie who would cure her and bring her back home).
Accept what you can't do.  Be honest about this, as well.  You aren't perfect, but that's okay.



Think about the limitations of time, money, and space.
Think about what you are willing to do.
Think about what is required for each step, including people and materials.



This should follow the same rules as making goals.
Be specific about when, where, how, what, and even why.
Share the plan with people you trust and who can help.



Work on your goals, one step at a time.
Be willing to adjust your plan, whether by taking away a step or adding more.



Ask your parents or siblings for help if you are comfortable with that.
Ask your friends to lend a hand where needed.
Don't go to video games, drugs, food, or any other unhealthy addiction for the support that you need.  This will cause lasting problems that you will most likely regret later.



The amount and frequency of time spent here will vary.
Don't overwhelm yourself.



This will significantly help them, especially if they are younger.
This can also help you.



This can help you remember it without getting depressed.
Art and journals are very precious after a family crisis.



This can lead to one side feeling hurt and abandoned while the other feels rewarded and appreciated.
This is especially hard if you have an opinion in the matter.
Try to express your opinion without implying that you love one person over the other.



Adapt your life as necessary, but don't let the hardship take complete control.
Write letters to family members who have moved out, or even to those who have passed away if it helps.

