 Splinters that are deep under your nail, or have already become infected, may need to be removed by a doctor. You can tell a splinter is infected if it continues to be painful after a few days and the area around the splinter is swollen or red in color.If the splinter is causing serious and excessive bleeding, go to your local emergency room to have it removed.
If the splinter is embedded under your nail such that you are unable to reach it on your own, or if the skin around the splinter is infected, make an appointment to see your family doctor. The doctor can remove the splinter and give you antibiotics.
In most cases, the doctor removing your splinter should be able to give you a local anaesthetic to numb the area and reduce the pain of removal.
Be aware that a doctor may have to remove some or all of your nail in order to remove the splinter completely.;
, If you are going to remove the splinter on your own at home, you will most likely need a set of tweezers (as the splinter will probably be too small to grip with your fingers). If the splinter is embedded so far under your nail that no part of the splinter is above your skin, you may also need to use a needle to remove the splinter.Sterilize any equipment you are planning to use to remove the splinter. You can sterilize tweezers and needles using rubbing alcohol or boiling water.
Wash your hands before touching any sterilized equipment.
Wash the area and nail where the splinter is located before attempting to remove it in order to help prevent infection. If it is difficult to wash with soap and water, you can also use rubbing alcohol.
If you have long nails, you may wish to cut back the nail under which the splinter is embedded before attempting to remove it. This should allow you to see the area better.
 Find a location with enough light to property see the entire area where the splinter is located. Use the tweezers to grab the exposed portion of the splinter. Once you have a firm grip on the splinter, pull it out of your skin in the same direction it went in.Splinters may consist of more than one piece of wood, glass, etc. Or they can break when attempting to remove them from the skin. If you are unable to remove the entire splinter on your own, you may need to see your doctor to have any remaining portions removed.
 Some splinters under a nail may be so deeply embedded that no portion of the splinter is exposed above the skin. These types of splinters can be quite difficult to remove on your own, but you can try using a needle to expose a portion of the splinter in order to grip it with tweezers.Any type of small sewing needle can be used in this procedure. Make sure it has been sterilized before use.
Push the needle under the nail, towards the end of the splinter, and use it to pry out the end of the splinter.
If you are able to pry enough of the splinter out, grip it with the tweezers and pull it out in the same direction it went in.
 After you have removed some or all of the splinter, wash the area thoroughly with soap and water. After the area is washed, you can apply some antibiotic ointment (e.g. Polysporin) to help prevent an infection.You may also wish to place a bandage over the area if it is bleeding, or if it is located in a spot that might get infected in the future.

