 A healthcare professional can help diagnose you and determine the cause of your anosmia. Anosmia can be a result of nasal-sinus disease (e.g.chronic rhinosinusitis, nasal inflammation), viral upper respiratory infections (e.g. colds), head trauma, or neurological disorders (e.g. Alzheimer’s Disease, Parkinson’s Disease, etc.) The treatment options available to you will depend on the cause of your anosmia.Anosmia can be permanent or temporary.
It is hard to predict if you will or will not respond to treatment.
Upper respiratory infections are the most common cause of anosmia.
It is best to see an otolaryngologist because they specialize in ear, nose, and throat disorders., Smell training twice a day may improve your sense of smell. During smell training you will expose yourself to different odors twice a day.You will use four essential oils (e.g. Rose, Lemon, Cloves, and Eucalyptus) for your training. They can be purchased at health or beauty stores. Place a few drops of the oil on a test stick or cotton pad and allow it to sit for 2 minutes. Hold the pad/stick an inch from your nose and slowly inhale the fragrance. Do this twice and then rest for 5 minutes. After five ,minutes, move on to the next scent.Do smell training when you wake up in the morning and before you go to bed.
You may not smell anything at first, but keep trying.
It usually takes at least a week, before you notice any results.
If you cannot get essential oils, you can choose some other strong, non-toxic odors such as perfume, coffee grounds, or flavor extracts for your smell training.
Smell training is most effective if you start within 12 months of losing your sense of smell., If your anosmia is the result of a upper respiratory infection, you can be treated with oral corticosteroids. It is best that you take these medications as soon as possible. The majority of people will regain there sense of smell, but it may take two or more years.If your anosmia is a result of head trauma, recovery takes much longer and may not happen at all.

