 Every child is different, so tailor your activities to suit your child’s particular interests. Make these activities fun! Children tend to have tons of energy but minimal attention spans, so it’s important for the activities you choose to entertain them.
 Your child may struggle to filter out unnecessary information and focus only on the subject to be estimated. You can teach this skill with simple games. For example, you might put red and blue balls on the floor, then ask your child to guess how many red balls there are (ignoring the blue ones).
 You can have your child guess how many jelly beans are in a bowl, how many pennies are in a jar, or how many marbles are in a box. Emphasize the need for estimation, not counting or calculation.


There are online games that help teach estimation as well. For example, your child can play “Guess It!” at http://www.theproblemsite.com/junior/estimation.asp, where Professor Puzzler will show various groups of colored dots, then take them away and ask for an estimation. This site will let you increase or decrease the amount of time the dots stay on the screen, too, letting you customize the game for your child.
 Explain to your child that when people estimate, they use words like “about,” “approximately,” or “more or less.” When you play guessing games, encourage your child to use these words and to construct sentences that reflect estimation.
 Remind your child that estimation is not about random guessing; it’s about making educated predictions. Instead of throwing out random numbers, he or she should use visual cues to get as close as possible.
 Repetition is key. Children need to practice these skills over and over again in order to master them. Vary the activities so that your child does not get bored, but don’t give up on teaching estimation.
 Children will be more interested and motivated if you offer a reward. If you play a guessing game with jelly beans, for example, you can give your child a few to eat when he or she makes a good estimate. If you use pennies, let your child keep them if he or she does well.

