 People associate intelligence with confidence, as it suggests you know what you are talking about. Stand or sit up straight, and don’t be afraid to approach people directly while looking them in the eye.Smiling often is another way to project confidence, and make people feel more comfortable around you.
 People respond well to those who are dressed well for their setting. Your clothes don’t need to be the cutting edge of fashion, but should fit you well and be appropriate for your work or classroom.


Purple, maybe matched with grey, is a good color to wear that suggests intelligence.Keep your body covered, and avoid revealing too much. Showing skin makes people focus on your body, rather than your mind.Adding items to carry around with you can make you feel more intelligent as well, especially if they have something to do with your job.Even carrying something like a notebook or clipboard can help give you the impression of a hard worker with something important to do.
Wear glasses. Wearing glasses is a common stereotype of intelligent people, so don’t be afraid to take advantage of this. It can be less effective if you don’t really need them and people know. They will likely recognize them more as a fashion statement, which diminishes the effect., People associate reading with intelligence, so having some reading material with you suggests that you have other things on your mind. Just make sure it is the kind of thing that other people will believe is smart reading, so children’s books or comic books are probably not a good idea.Make sure your reading material fits the setting. Reading a novel can be good for general settings, but something like the Wall Street Journal is much better in a business area. Just make sure you aren’t reading when you should be doing your actual job.
 You don’t want to be having regular arguments with yourself, but talking very quietly will make it seem like you are thinking about something important. Verbalizing your thoughts is also a good way to help yourself work through complex ideas.