 If you are in a hurry, you can cook oatmeal in the microwave. Be sure to watch the microwave so that the oatmeal does not boil over and make a mess. Also, microwave oatmeal can be a little too thick and dry; you can fix this by stirring in some water, milk, or cream before eating it. Here are some proportions and cooking times for microwave oatmeal:To make rolled oats or old fashioned oatmeal in the microwave, pour 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water and ½ cup (40 grams) of oatmeal into a heat-safe bowl and microwave for 2 ½ minutes to 3 minutes.
To make quick-cooking oats or instant oatmeal in the microwave, add 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water and ½ cup (40 grams) of oatmeal into a heat-safe bowl and microwave for 1 ½ minute to 2 minutes.
 Combine all of your ingredients in a bowl, and scoop into two 8-ounce mason jars. Put the lid on the jars and place them in the refrigerator overnight. The next morning, take the jars out and open them. You can eat the oatmeal directly out of the jar, or transfer the oatmeal into a bowl. Consider adding some honey or cream on top of the oats before eating them. The oats will have soaked up all the liquid overnight, turning into a rich and creamy oatmeal. Here is what you will need:6 ounces (165 grams) yogurt. You can use plain, low-fat, or Greek yogurt.
2/3 cups (55 grams) rolled oats or old fashioned oats
2/3 cups (160 milliliters) milk
Additions, such as fresh berries, dried fruit, honey, maple syrup, or nuts. You can add as much as you want, so long as it will fit in the jar, or you can omit the additions completely.
 Plug in your crock pot. Put all of the ingredients into the crock pot and stir to combine everything. Put the lid on, and turn on the crock pot. Let the oatmeal cook for 8 to 9 hours. Once it is cooked, turn off the crock pot, stir the oatmeal, and scoop it out into bowls. Consider preparing the recipe the night before, so that it will be ready when you wake up in the morning. Here is what you will need:4 cups (950 milliliters) water
1 cup (80 grams) steel cut oats
1 cup (120 grams) dried cranberries
1 cup (150 grams) dried figs
½ cup (120 milliliters) half-and-half

, Turn on your oven and set the temperature to 350°F (176.66 °C). Mix all of the dry ingredients (oats, brown sugar, baking powder, cinnamon, and salt) in a bowl. In a second bowl, mix the wet ingredients (butter, eggs, and milk) using a whisk. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and mix with a spoon. Transfer the mixture into an oven-safe dish. Put the dish into the oven and bake for 40 to 45 minutes. Once the oatmeal is cooked, take it out of the oven, and serve. You can scoop it out of the dish using a serving spoon, and out it into a bowl. Here is what you will need:3 cups (240 grams) quick-cooking oats
1 cup (200 grams) brown sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
½ cup (115 grams) butter, melted
2 eggs
1 cup (240 milliliters) milk

, Keep in mind, however, that the oatmeal will puff in your stomach, so if you eat too much you may start feeling really full later on and get a tummy ache. Simply combine two parts liquid to one part uncooked oatmeal. Add some toppings, such as brown sugar, dried fruits, honey, maple syrup, or nuts. Stir with a spoon, and serve. You can use either milk or yogurt for the liquid.

