 If you own your own home, or if your landlord allows subletting, renting out your living space can be a major cost-saver. If you're lucky, you can rent the use of your car as well for an extra charge.


Look into house swap arrangements for another alternative.
 Check your passport and your family's passports early to make sure they won't expire before you return from the sabbatical. Renewing them can take weeks (or expensive fees for quick service). You'll probably also need to acquire a visa for each country you visit, depending on the relations between your country of citizenship and your destination. Contact the nearest consulate representing your destination country, to apply for these visas or find out more.
 Large banks often have "sister banks" abroad that you can access your account from. Contact your banking representative to set this up before you leave. Let your bank and your credit card company know when you'll be abroad, if possible, as an unexpected expense in a foreign country can sometimes cause them to block the card.
 Your current health insurance most likely does not cover time spent abroad. Purchase travel insurance for you and your family, or talk to your health care provider about paying for international coverage.
 Do your research well before you leave, and compare several options for continuing your child's schooling. Young children often adapt to language changes quickly, so you do not necessarily need to limit your search to schools that teach in their native language.
 Start taking language lessons or listening to audio language lessons as soon as you can, and stick with it. Talk to native speakers or watch films with subtitles as well, since regular conversation is always faster and harder to follow than lessons.
 Every location has its quirks, dangers, and opportunities. Discovering them is part of the fun, but if you can find out some of them in advance, you can save yourself a lot of headaches. If you don't know anyone who's been personally, join an online travel forum, look for public events in the local immigrant community, or contact someone in the organization you'll be working with.

