 To reduce the number of toys in your home, get your kids used to giving away toys they no longer play with or use. One option is to allow your kids to have only a certain number of toys in their play zone at once. Tell your kids they are only allowed to have a certain number of toys and that they have to let go of any toys if they go over this number.You can also encourage your kids to make yes/no piles for their toys where they decide to keep or give away toys. Ask your child, "Do you play with this toy every week?" or "Would I keep this toy in my room and play with it?" If their answer is "no", the toy might need to go in the "no" pile to then be given away.
Create a “maybe” box for toys if your child finds it hard to make a decision. Tell your child to put any toys they are tired of or do not play with often in the box to maybe give away. Then, you can look over the toys at the end of the month with them and decide if any of them can be donated or given away.
 If there are too many toys in your house after the holidays, consider donating some of the toys to charity. Go through your child’s old toys and give away any toys they do not play with any more. Look through their new toys and identify any toys that are not age appropriate or outdated. You can also give away toys that you have more than one of to cut down on the amount of toys your child has access to.Check local charities or organizations in your area that take children’s toys. You can also donate the toys to your local Goodwill or Salvation Army.
 You can also give away some of the toys to friends or family who have children. Offer the toys to them, particularly toys that are age appropriate for their kids. If you have a friend who does not have many toys for their children, you may offer some of the toys to them.Suggest that your child assist you in giving away the toys to others who are less fortunate or who do not have access to toys. This can help to teach them the value of being generous and letting go of material things.
 Another option is to keep some of the toys at a close family member’s home, such as the home of your kid’s grandparents. This way, your kids can play with the toys when they are at their grandparent’s home. Or you may store some of the toys at the home of a caretaker nearby so your child can play with the toys when they are being baby sat., To keep the amount of toys in your home under control, do a monthly purge of your child’s toys. Go through their toys every month and identify any toys that do not get much use. Give them away so they are not taking up space. Have your child help you with the purge so they learn how to let go of toys they no longer use.Plan ahead and do a major purge of your kid’s toys before the holiday season. This way, when your child gets new toys during the holidays, there is space for them in your home.

