 If you simply pick a name and hire them on the spot, you have no way of knowing how they stack up to other attorneys or whether there's a better option. Interviewing at least three attorneys gives you a good field to compare.You can always ask friends or family for recommendations. However, you may not feel comfortable doing that due to the delicacy of the situation.
The website of your state or local bar association is a good place to start. Many have attorney referral services that will provide you the names of some licensed attorneys in your area based on your answers to a few questions.
Even if a referral service isn't available, you usually can find a searchable attorney directory that lists licensed members who practice in your area.
Once you have some candidates, go to each attorney's website to learn more about them and their practice areas. Narrow your search down to those that have experience defending clients sued for sexual abuse.;
, Most attorneys offer a free initial consultation, so you can explore their background and experience and decide whether you want to hire them. You want to try to schedule at least three, but you must act fast – particularly if you've already been served with a complaint.After you've been served with a complaint, you only have a limited period of time – typically less than a month – to file a written response with the court. If you don't answer the lawsuit, the plaintiff may win by default.
You'll want to meet with your attorney at least once before the answer is filed, and then your attorney will have to draft the court documents. This means if you plan to interview several attorneys, you don't have much time.
Try to schedule your initial consultations within a week of getting the complaint. If an attorney cannot meet you that soon, they may be too busy to effectively work on your case.
 The particular information you need to know from an attorney will largely depend on your personal strategy and feelings about the case. You also want to think about the work styles of people with whom you work well.Find out how many cases similar to yours each attorney has litigated. If an attorney hasn't represented any clients sued for past sexual abuse, they may not have the experience necessary to properly represent you.
Get a good idea of how much of the work on your case the attorneys will be doing themselves, and ask to meet any associates who potentially will be doing a lot of work on your case.
You also want to determine how available attorneys are, and their preferred method of communication. If, for example, one attorney prefers email and you rarely check or use your email account, they may not be the right attorney for you.
Ideally, an attorney should respond to your phone call or email within 24 hours. If you interview an attorney who isn't able to guarantee this kind of response time, you may want to look elsewhere.
 If you're a defendant in a lawsuit, expect to pay for an attorney. No one defends a case on contingency because you don't get any money if you win the case. Take a close look at your budget and determine what you can afford to pay.Most attorneys should be able to give you an up-front estimate of how much your case will cost depending on various outcomes.
For example, you may get one estimate if the attorney is able to get the case dismissed, another if it's settled before trial, and a third estimate if the case goes to trial.
Keep in mind that while your finances may be tight, losing the lawsuit can hurt more than just your bank account. You also may lose substantial credibility and suffer damage to your professional and personal reputation.
 After you've completed your initial consultation, take the information you've gained and use it to compare and contrast the attorneys with whom you spoke. Typically, one will rise to the top as your best choice.Don't ignore subjective qualities like personality. One attorney may be the strongest choice on paper, but if you didn't get along with them or found them off-putting, they probably aren't going to be the best person to represent you in court.
You need to hire an attorney with whom you feel comfortable, and who you know will listen to you and respect you.
When you've made your decision, call up the attorney you've chosen. They probably will schedule an initial meeting in which they'll present a written retainer agreement.
Read over the agreement carefully before you sign. If there's anything you find confusing or have a problem with, bring it up to the attorney and ask for clarification.
 The person who sued you filed a complaint to initiate the lawsuit. This document lists the allegations that person has against you. It also will state the amount of money they believe you owe them as a result of committing the acts alleged.Your attorney will describe the things the plaintiff must prove and go over whether the allegations listed are sufficient to constitute a wrong that would entitle them to damages.
You'll also look at the court in which the plaintiff filed their complaint and whether that court has jurisdiction over you and the case against you.
Another thing to consider is when the case was filed. Particularly if the acts alleged happened many years ago, the plaintiff may be barred by your state's statute of limitations from suing you.
 Before your attorney can respond to the complaint, they'll need some information from you regarding your knowledge or memory of the events described in the complaint.Your attorney may have specific questions to ask you, or they may ask you to discuss the plaintiff's allegations from your point of view.
If you have any physical evidence or documents that can be used in your defense, provide those to your attorney.
If the alleged events happened a long time ago, it's not likely that you'll have much concrete information. You may not even remember much of what the plaintiff describes. That's okay, but let your attorney know specifically which allegations you deny and which you don't remember.
 The answer is a written document that serves as your response to the complaint. Based on the information you provided, the attorney will admit or deny each individual allegation against you on your behalf.Your answer also will include any defenses that your attorney believes apply to your case. Some of these defenses must be listed in the answer or the court won't allow you to bring them up later.
For example, if you believe the court doesn't have jurisdiction over you because you live in another county, you must state this in your answer. Otherwise the court will treat it as though you waived any possible objection and agreed to submit to the court's jurisdiction.
Some of the defenses may seem like they contradict each other. This is called "pleading in the alternative" and the law allows it.
Read through the answer before your attorney files it and make sure you agree with it. Ask your attorney if you read anything in the answer that you don't understand.
 Often a defendant will file a motion to dismiss along with, or instead of, a written answer. If the allegations listed in the complaint aren't enough to show that you sexually abused the plaintiff, a motion to dismiss may be proper in your case.Dismissal is proper in other situations as well. For example, if your state's deadline for filing the lawsuit has passed, you may request the court dismiss the case because the plaintiff didn't have the right to file it in the first place.
A dismissal will either be with or without prejudice. If the court dismisses a case "without prejudice," that means the plaintiff can correct the problem and refile the lawsuit.
For example, if the plaintiff filed their lawsuit in a court that didn't have jurisdiction over you because you live in a different county, the court may dismiss that lawsuit without prejudice. The plaintiff is free to file the lawsuit in the correct court.
A dismissal with prejudice means the case is over. The plaintiff may appeal the dismissal, but they don't have the right to refile the same case against you.
 Assuming the plaintiff's case is able to withstand any motion to dismiss that you file, your litigation enters the next phase. During discovery, you and the plaintiff will exchange evidence and information related to the plaintiff's allegations against you.Discovery may include written questions or requests, as well as depositions. Depositions are live interviews conducted under oath. A court reporter produces a transcript of the deposition for later use.
More likely than not, your attorney will want to depose the plaintiff. You also may want to depose any other witnesses the plaintiff plans to call.
The plaintiff may want to depose you or any witnesses you've identified and plan to call to testify on your behalf.
 At any time before (or even during) trial, you can make an offer to the plaintiff to settle the case. If you're interested in settling, you and your attorney will work out an acceptable settlement range and start at the lower end of that range.The amount of money you're willing to offer to settle the case may change depending on how far along you are in litigation and how much evidence the plaintiff has.
If the plaintiff has scant evidence to prove the allegations against you, it may be tempting not to make any attempt to settle the case. With little evidence, you may have confidence you can win at trial.
However, keep in mind that sexual abuse victims are extremely sympathetic witnesses. Even if much of the case comes down to "he said, she said," juries tend to be more inclined to side with the alleged victim.
Additionally, trials are public events. Your reputation may take a significant hit even if you win the case. This is particularly true if local media outlets have become interested in the case.
 Some courts require litigants to at least attempt mediation before a case will even be scheduled for trial. However, even if the court handling your case doesn't require it, you still can suggest it as a simpler way to find a resolution.Through mediation, a neutral third party works with you and the plaintiff (and your attorneys) to come up with a compromise of the case to which both sides are willing to agree.
The process is entirely voluntary, and you won't be forced to accept any settlement. Mediation is considered voluntary even if participation is mandated by the court, because there's no requirement that you resolve the case.
Keep in mind that if the case ends up going to trial, you typically will end up having to pay substantial attorney's fees. Mediation can be a more efficient and cost-effective resolution, even if you end up having to pay the plaintiff a significant amount of money.
Mediation has an even greater benefit in that the proceedings are confidential. This encourages both parties to be completely honest in coming to a compromise.
 The purpose of mediation is to enable both parties to feel like they are on an even playing field and have the power to resolve the problems between them by working together. The process won't work if you maintain an angry or defensive outlook about the case.Your attorney typically will want to meet with you at least once before your mediation appointment to prepare you for the process.
You'll go over the basic stages of the mediation process, and your attorney may even tell you a little about the person who will serve as mediator.
A positive attitude is essential going into mediation. If you aren't able or willing to meet the plaintiff halfway to resolve the situation, mediation isn't going to help you.
 The mediator will facilitate discussion between you and the plaintiff that hopefully will guide you both towards a mutually acceptable settlement of the case. Typically after introductions, this is done while you and the plaintiff remain in separate rooms.Separating you and the plaintiff can be beneficial for both parties, especially if the plaintiff is intimidated by you.
The mediator typically will break down the claim into smaller pieces, talking to each of you separately and attempting to get agreement on various aspects of the case.
Once you've found a few things the two of you can agree on, you're more likely to be able to come to a compromise.
Depending on how negotiations go, the mediator may bring you both back to the same room to iron out the final details of a settlement agreement.
 If you are able to arrive at a mutually acceptable compromise, the mediator will draw up a settlement contract that includes all the terms to which you and the plaintiff agreed.Once you and the plaintiff sign the settlement agreement, it becomes a binding contract that is legally enforceable.
Keep in mind that you don't have to settle the entire case. An agreement can cover only portions of the case, making the trial easier to manage because there are only a few issues in contention.
If despite your best efforts you are unable to reach an agreement through mediation, your attorney typically will begin working with you to prepare for trial.
In some cases, the last offer on the table may remain open for a period of time before trial. If at any point you change your mind and decide to accept the last offer made by the plaintiff, you can still have the settlement agreement drawn up.

