 OB-GYNs are physicians who specialize in women’s health. They complete medical school and an obstetric residency program, then take written and oral exams to achieve board certification with the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the official organization for obstetricians and gynecologists in the United States. They are trained to perform surgery (including cesarean section), handle complications associated with pregnancy and childbirth, and prescribe medications.


Some OB-GYNs complete additional training to specialize in particular aspects of women’s health care, such as infertility treatment or gynecological cancer.;
, CNMs complete nursing school, become registered nurses, and undertake additional training in midwifery. They then pass exams to achieve certification from the American College of Nurse Midwives, the official organization for midwives in the United States. They can generally prescribe medications, depending on state law, but they cannot perform surgery or handle high-risk cases.
 Because obstetricians are M.D.s, they approach pregnancy and childbirth through a scientific and medical lens. This approach has advantages and disadvantages.


A medical approach is beneficial if you have a higher risk pregnancy and are likely to need specialized medical care. OB-GYNs are the only health care professionals who can handle any complication that develops, including the need for surgery.
On the other hand, a medical approach sometimes leads to unnecessary drugs or interventions. Some women who use obstetricians find that their pregnancies and birth experiences become unnecessarily medicalized. Childbirth is a natural process, and most healthy women do not need high-tech interventions.
 You can try to have a natural birth with either an obstetrician or a nurse-midwife. In general, though, women who use midwives tend to use less pain medication and fewer interventions, and they are much less likely to wind up needing cesarean sections.
 Obstetricians are generally the best choice for any pregnancy that is considered “high risk.” If you have a chronic health problem like heart disease or epilepsy, your pregnancy will likely fall into this category. You’ll need to see an obstetrician and, in some cases, a perinatologist (a specialist in high risk pregnancies).


Note that in many areas, you may be able to see a midwife for normal prenatal visits and an obstetrician or other medical specialist for your medical needs. Regardless, your obstetrician will be in charge of your pregnancy and delivery.
 If you have been pregnant before, consider any complications. Did you develop gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, or another problem? Did you need an emergency cesarean section or other medical interventions? If so, you may want to choose an obstetrician trained to deal with those scenarios. If not, you can safely consider using a midwife instead.
 If you find you are carrying twins or triplets, you may need an obstetrician to help you deal with the medical problems that carrying multiples can present. If you are pregnant with a single baby, a midwife may be your best option.
 Depending on the reasons for your c-section, you may be able to have a normal pregnancy and a vaginal delivery. Talk to your doctor, but if having a vaginal delivery after a previous cesarean section (VBAC) is important to you, consider using a midwife. Midwives have much better success rates for VBACs.
 Whichever health care professional you choose, you will check in monthly through your seventh month or so, then biweekly for the eighth month and weekly during the ninth. Both practitioners will check your weight, measure your belly, test your urine, and listen to the fetal heartbeat.
 Whichever practitioner you choose, you will have access to laboratory work, ultrasounds, amniocentesis, and other testing.
 While both types of providers offer the same prenatal care, midwives tend to spend more time with their patients. Most set aside extra time to answer all of your questions, provide extra information about your pregnancy, and discuss any concerns you may have. Good obstetricians will listen and answer your questions too, but they are usually more rushed and therefore prioritize getting through each appointment efficiently. Ask yourself which approach you prefer.
 There are exceptions, but in general, midwives provide more emotional support. Obstetricians understand their job to be providing medical care to pregnant women; midwives take a more holistic approach. Ask yourself which style you prefer. Some women want a supportive practitioner who will listen to their concerns and offer emotional support; others prefer a more businesslike relationship, seeking emotional support from other people, like their partners, friends, and family members.
 In the United States, most women give birth in hospitals, but you may also consider using a birthing center of delivering your baby at home. Depending on your preference, you may need a particular kind of provider:


If you want to give birth in a hospital, you can generally use either an OB-GYN or a CNM. Ask potential practitioners which hospitals they are affiliated with so that you know what your options will be.
If you want to give birth in a birthing center, you will likely need a midwife. Birthing centers are alternatives to hospitals; they aim to provide a comfortable and lower-tech setting for healthy women with low-risk pregnancies to give birth. Unlike hospitals, they tend to let you wear your own clothes, eat when you are hungry, and soak in a warm bath during labor and delivery if desired. Birthing centers are typically staffed by CNMs. Note that if an emergency arises, you will need to be transported to a hospital.
If you want to give birth at home, you will definitely need a midwife, and you may need to do some research to find a CNM in your area who is willing to deliver your baby at home. For most healthy women with low-risk pregnancies, home birth is safe. Be aware, however, that if you develop any complications, you will need to get to a hospital as quickly as possible. In addition, know that many health insurance plans do not cover home births.
 If you are healthy, have a low-risk pregnancy, and want to give birth without unnecessary medications, interventions, or surgeries, then a CNM may be right for you. In general, midwives do a better job at coaching their patients through labor and delivery naturally. Women who give birth with midwives are less likely, for example, to wind up with epidurals, episiotomies, forceps deliveries, or cesarean sections.
 Generally speaking, you’ll have more options for pain management with an obstetrician (and obstetricians will be more likely to suggest pain medication). Midwives will be more likely to suggest natural pain relief techniques (breathing, massage, changing your position, laboring in a warm bath) first; however, they can give certain pain medications, and if you deliver in a hospital, you can get an epidural with either type of practitioner.
 Many midwives will stay with you from the early stages of labor through the delivery of your baby, coaching you and providing various kinds of support. If this is desirable to you, you should look for a CNM rather than an OB-GYN. Obstetricians will usually check in on you periodically until it is time to deliver your baby, but they will not stay by your side; in general, they leave most of that care to nurses.
 If you have a spouse or partner, talk to that person about what kind of prenatal care and childbirth experience you want. You are the one having the baby, but he or she should also have a chance to voice preferences and concerns.
 If you know women who have recently given birth, talk to them about their experiences. They may have insights about obstetricians and midwives, and they may be able to answer your questions. Furthermore, if they live in your area, they can recommend (or advise against) certain practitioners.
 If you are low risk and still undecided about which kind of practitioner you want, get referrals for at least one of each, and meet with them to discuss your concerns and answer your questions. Ask them about their approaches to prenatal visits and pain management during labor, and find out where they deliver their patients’ babies. Choose the practitioner that feels like the best fit for you personally.
 If you have done your research and considered all the options, then go with your gut. Assuming that you are healthy and have no serious pregnancy-related risks, there really is no wrong decision here. If you feel more comfortable in a hospital setting with a physician managing your pregnancy, labor, and delivery, then go with an obstetrician. If you feel more comfortable approaching pregnancy from a natural perspective and want a provider who will stay by your side throughout your labor and delivery, then go with a midwife.

