 Smoking contributes to your risk for osteoporosis, and can worsen Crohn’s flare-ups. Quit smoking to help improve your symptoms and maintain stronger bones.If you need help quitting, ask your doctor. They may be able to assist you with medications, patches, or gum.
 These exercises help to build stronger bones by increasing bone density.Use free weights, resistance bands, or your body weight to strengthen your major muscle groups. Walk, use the elliptical machine, garden, do low-impact aerobics, and climb stairs.How often and how much you should workout depends on your health.


Talk to your doctor before starting any exercise program. You need to create a safe workout if you already have weakened bones.
If you have weak bones, avoid twisting your spine and doing high-impact activities like running, jumping, or jogging.
 Crohn’s Disease is an inflammatory bowel disease and can lead to the malabsorption of nutrients. One way to tackle the problem may be to try to address your underlying immune over-activity. Some research indicates that you may be able to help this by changing your diet, including restricting certain carbs, eating more probiotic foods, changing your intake of fats, and other things.In an anti-inflammation diet, you’ll remove or reduce your intake of things like sugars and refined carbohydrates, glutens and grain, and some oils.
The diet instead focuses on lean meats, poultry and fish, omega3 eggs, and particular kinds of carbs. You’ll also eat select fruits and vegetables, nut and legume flours, probiotics like kefir, yogurt, miso, and other cultured products, and prebiotics in the form of soluble fiber (found in things like bananas, oats, and flax meal).
Some people on an anti-inflammation diet also modify texture, blending, softening, or pureeing foods, especially if they are sensitive to intact fiber.
Of course, you should always talk to your doctor or dietician before going on a special diet.
 If you can tolerate it, drink milk and eat dairy products. These are rich in calcium. Unfortunately, many people with Crohn’s disease are lactose intolerant or experience symptoms when they eat dairy.In that case, incorporate whatever calcium-rich foods you can into your regular diet, such as:Dark green leafy vegetables like kale and broccoli
Sardines and canned salmon
Products that are calcium-fortified including soy, cereal, fruit juice, and milk substitutes

, Regularly eat milk, cereal, and other products that are fortified with vitamin D.Egg yolks contain small amounts of vitamin D, so try to eat whole eggs. Snack on canned salmon or sardines – fish that have soft, edible bones., Ask your doctor to refer you to a registered dietician. They can help you create meal plans that include the nutrients you need to maintain strong bones.Some dieticians are specially trained to work with people with Crohn’s and other diseases.
 Spend around 10-30 minutes in the sun without sunscreen twice a week. Let the skin of your arms, legs, chest, and back soak up the rays. Sunlight helps your body make vitamin D.You should not, however, get sunburned. If you have fair skin or burn easily, limit your time in the sun without sunscreen to 10 minutes or less. If you have darker skin, you can stay out for up to 30 minutes.
If you live in a cold climate, get what sunlight you can by sitting near a bright window.

