 Making sure that your child gets sufficient exercise is important for his/her overall health, and it will also help him/her sleep better to have burned off energy throughout the day. Even so, you may find that allowing your child to jump and run around in the hours before bedtime could get him/her too wound up for sleep.


Some research has indicated that exercising at a moderate intensity for at least thirty minutes early in the day (preferably in the morning) can positively impact the length and quality of a person's sleep., Similarly, while it's great fun to allow your children to wrestle together—or to join in with them yourself—you want to avoid encouraging any behavior which will get them overly excited as bedtime approaches., Yoga isn't a practice just for young, limber 20-somethings! While you want to avoid any strenuous exercise in the evening, your child may benefit from the calming effects of a yoga routine. This can help him/her relax both his/her mind and his/her body as he/she unwinds from a busy day.

Recent studies have indicated that yoga practice can lead to improved sleep., One reason an older child may have trouble falling or staying asleep is if he/she is worried about completing all of his/her schoolwork. If his/her projects aren't finished before he/she goes to bed, he/she may be worried about needing to finish it at breakfast or on the bus, and this nagging worry could be interfering with his/her ability to “shut off” his/her mind and get sleep.


Help your child establish a clear homework schedule and create an organizing system to help him/her keep track of his/her homework and due dates. If he/she has a designated time and place to do him/her homework in the afternoon or evening, he/she will be less likely to go to bed with it unfinished.
 Research consistently shows that it is much harder for us to fall asleep immediately after “screen time”.Blue-light emitting devices, such as game consoles, computer screens, tablets, and smartphones are all “blue-light emitting devices,” and exposure to them is thought to interrupt our natural circadian rhythms (our natural sleep cycles).Teenagers seem to be particularly sensitive to the sleep-disrupting effects of these devices.
Make sure, then, that your child “unplugs” at least an hour before bedtime.
 Your child may also be suffering from poor sleep because of problems with anxiety or stress. Particularly if this sleep issue is new, take the time to talk with your child about what is going on in his/her life: is he/she worried, nervous, or scared about something? Is he/she having problems with his/her teachers or friends?Once you've identified any underlying problems, be sure to work with your child to come up with coping strategies, meet with his/her teachers if necessary, and if the problem is severe, be sure to meet with your child's pediatrician to get a referral for counselor.
 Sometimes younger children have trouble going to bed when they feel they're missing out on fun activities with older family members after their bedtime. To reduce this fear of missing out, consider planning activities your younger child likes earlier in the day so they can participate.


If older family members do take part in activities a younger child enjoys after their bedtime, they should avoid talking about it and making the younger child feel left out.
If your child persuades you to let him/her stay up later than usual one night, and you do activities he/she finds boring, he/she won't be as tempted to stay up late another night.

