 Approach them calmly and politely with your complaint. Ask that they quiet down and come up with a plan together of how to solve noise problems.Calmly approach your neighbour with your issue. If you have never actually met in person or spoken to one another, make it a point to introduce yourself. Say, “Hi, I’m Mary. I share the wall with you and live next door.”
Broach the topic of noise bothering you, but do so as respectfully as possible to be careful not to offend them. Say something like, “I’m not sure if you’re aware, but the walls are really thin here so I can hear a lot. It kind of keeps me up at night.”;
, You may be studying. You may have young children or elderly relatives at home who can’t take the excessive noise. Help them understand why need to be quieter.For example, if you are a college student, explain to your neighbour that you need peace and quiet to study late at night. Be honest and say something like, “I’m not trying to ruin your night, but it would be amazing if you could try to keep it down between the hours of 10 and 3. Those are prime study hours for me.”
Another way to confront your neighbours about their noise is mentioning the household members they might be interrupting. Be sincere and say something like, “Hey, I have a baby and even though I love rocking out, it’s hard to get my baby to stay asleep with all of the noise. Can you please, please keep it down? My sanity will thank you.”

, Do not blame or accuse, and definitely do not threaten your neighbour. If you are confrontational toward them, they are far more likely to respond by being confrontational toward you. Remember that you're seeking a solution, not a hostile standoff.


Stay away from using blaming language such as “you are” or “you need to”, instead focus on how you feel and convey that to your neighbour.Do so after the loud party though, never try to have a rational conversation in the midst of the loud noises happening.
Avoid coming to your neighbour with an angered or disgruntled attitude. If you feel like you’re too irritated to have a productive, mature conversation, save the conversation for a later date when you’ve calmed down some.
 Could they keep it down before or after certain times of the day? Could you or your neighbour wear headphones to help minimize the noise? Adhere to noise complaint procedures your building has set in place to help guide you with your compromise.


Look into the rules of the apartment complex and/or residential area you reside in. Ask that your neighbours be respectful of any courtesy hours that might be enforced.If you are unsure of how to come to an agreement with your neighbour on your own, use the development’s rules as a guideline for how to resolve the issue., If the problem continues, try writing your neighbour a letter. While it may seem formal, it may also be a clear and effective way of communicating your complaint in the least confrontational way possible.


Take time to compose the letter. As with your initial contact, be polite and factual. State the result you are looking for with your initiation of complaint.
Keep a copy of the letter as part of your written record of the actions you have taken to resolve the problem.
 Record the outcome of the conversation with as many facts and details as you can recall, and do so immediately. You will be able to demonstrate that you tried to resolve the problem yourself.


Careful notes of your actions can help your case if the problem becomes an ongoing one or you need to make a formal complaint later. Dates and times will be useful to write down as well as copies of any tangible forms of conversation (texts, emails, letters).

