 Before starting your cat on a diet, it's important to talk to your vet. A vet can help you determine the best, safest diet for your cat, including what's a good weight for your cat.Ask your vet about the best food for your cat. Your vet may recommend putting your cat on a diet food to help it lose weight. The bonus of a diet food is your cat can likely have the same amount of food it's been getting but at a reduced caloric intake.See your vet if your cat stops eating when you adjust its diet. A cat not eating can lead to a serious disease known as fatty liver disease.;
, To put your cat on a diet, you need to know how much it is eating. To be sure, you can't free feed your cat, meaning you never leave the bowl empty. You also can't have auto-feeders.Instead, you need to measure out how much food it is getting each day. If your cat isn't adjusting well to being off of free feeding, try breaking up its food into several small meals throughout the day., A cat generally needs about 20 calories for every pound that it weighs to maintain its weight. So if your cat is 8 pounds, it needs 160 calories to maintain its weight., Once you've determined how much your cat needs to maintain its weight, you need to lower that amount so the cat can lose weight. Reduce the maintenance amount by 40 calories to help it steadily lose weight.Read the food package to see how many calories are in your cat's food. Don't forget to take treats into account if you feed those to your cat.
 As your cat loses weight, you'll need to lower its intake to adjust for that lost weight. Also, if your cat's activity level changes (decreases), you may need to decrease its intake as well. Always talk to your vet about decreases, as you want to provide your cat with enough food., If you feel the need to give your cat treats, stick to ones that are lower in calories. You can find diet treats on the market, and some will even clean your cat's teeth, which is helpful.You can also try a few human treats, such as cooked green beans, broccoli, or air-popped popcorn (no salt or butter).
Another option is baking thin pieces of canned diet food until they are crunchy. Bake them at 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Refrigerate the pieces when the food is done. Frozen pieces of canned food will also appeal to some cats.
 If your cat tends to gobble its food, you can slow down eating by using puzzles to make it actively hunt for its food. It will keep your cat entertained, and it will also increase its activity as it tries to get the food out.You can make a simple food puzzle at home by cutting holes in a plastic bottle that are large enough for dry food to fall out. Put the food inside, and close the lid. The cat will need to move the bottle around and make the food fall out.
 If you have more than one level in your house, forcing your cat to climb the stairs can increase its activity. One way you can do that is to put the things it needs on different levels, such as the bathroom on one floor and the food on another., If your cat isn't used to being active, you may need to lend a hand. Get out a lure toy, for instance, and encourage your cat to play with it. Most cats will find playing with their owners much more interesting than playing a game on their own.Try to get in at least 20 minutes of play each day, though it doesn't all need to be at once.
 Cats get bored with their toys, just like humans and other animals. To keep them interested and active, switch out their toys from time to time so they always have something new to play with.You can try ball toys, jingle toys, and feather toys. Keep in mind that any toys with strings should always be used under supervision, as strings can be very dangerous to a cat if swallowed.
 While walking a cat may seem a bit out of the ordinary, it can be a way to get a cat more active. First, you'll need to get a leash and a harness, so that cat can't wiggle out while you're outside.Start out by getting your cat accustomed to the harness around the house. Once your cat seems okay with wearing the harness, you can try taking it outside on a leash. Don't try walking yet. Just take it out into the yard, and let it explore while leashed, always under your supervision.
After a while, you can start taking walks, if your cat seems comfortable outside. Of course, a walk with a cat will never be quite the same as a walk with a dog, but you can take short excursions where your cat has a chance to explore places in the neighborhood.
 It's always tempting to give into pets when they beg for table scraps. However, what seems like an insignificant amount to you can actually be a significant amount of a cat's daily intake. For instance, the average bite you take is 25 calories. If you consider that a 5 pound cat only needs 100 calories a day to maintain its weight, 25 calories is a quarter of its daily intake.To discourage begging, try distracting your cat with a game or with some cuddles. You could also take the cat out of the room, or you could give the cat part of its food at the same time. A puzzle ball may also help.
 If you have more than one pet in your household, you may need to monitor food intake more closely, as your obese cat could be stealing from other animals in the household. Feeding animals separately can help solve the problem. You can either feed at separate times, or you can try feeding in separate rooms.You can also try feeding more agile cats up higher (such as on a washing machine) and the obese cat down lower., If you put the cat on a diet but someone else is feeding it extra treats, it's not going to lose weight. Talk to everyone in your household about what the plan is so that everyone is on board. The same holds true if your cat is an indoor/outdoor cat. Talk to your neighbors about not feeding the cat extra treats.