 A dog can become lame for many reasons, ranging from a simple sprain or a cut pad all the way to cancer. Take your dog to the vet if it has any lameness, as limping is a sign of pain. Your vet should be able to determine what the cause of the pain is.


Bone cancers, such as osteosarcoma, are acutely painful and the dog may be in discomfort when you touch the area. The area may be swollen and feel hot to the touch.
Signs associated with bone cancer also include restlessness (as though in a lot of discomfort), a low grade lameness that gets worse rather than better, and loss of appetite., Again there are multiple causes of weight loss and poor appetite, ranging all the way from a change of diet or food the dog doesn't like, to kidney disease or cancer. Any weight loss should trigger a trip to the vet, but this is especially important if the dog seems dull, lacking in energy, and generally not itself.


Symptoms tend to develop gradually with a slow loss of appetite and loss of body condition. This is also reflected in the dog taking less care of itself, and grooming less. This lack of proper grooming leads to a dull coat. Sometimes the dog may also vomit on and off.
Take careful note of the dog's bowel movements, as this can give the veterinarian vital clues to what's going on.
 Give the dog a good sniff over to try and localize the smell. Sometimes a hidden tumor, such as a melanoma in the mouth, is not easy to see but it may become infected and start to smell.


Of course, there are other common infections that also smell and are usually not serious (but do need treatment). It's a good idea that if you detect a bad smell you should check in with a vet about it., Regular nosebleeds, bleeding from the gums, and bleeding excessively from small cuts all require urgent veterinary attention. One explanation is cancer, but other diseases, such as autoimmune disease, can interfere the body's ability to clot blood. Take note of blood in urine, feces, or vomit. Again, there may be an innocent explanation, such as cystitis or colitis, but these conditions also need treatment.
 Coughing can result from infection, bronchitis, heart disease or cancer, among other possibilities. Watch your dog's breathing: rapid shallow breaths indicate abnormality and you should get the dog checked as a matter of urgency. In the meantime, rest the dog so that it doesn't have extra demands on its body's oxygen., Brain tumors can induce changes in behavior that are quite marked. Your dog may develop an unusual habit, nervous tick, or even seizures. If it starts to bump into things, lose its balance, or have difficult walking in a straight line this could indicate a neurological abnormality. This should be checked out by a vet.
 For example, notice if your pet's belly changes shape and becomes suddenly swollen. This could indicate an internal bleed and loss of blood within the abdomen, causing it to become distended. This could be due to a ruptured lump within the abdomen. Seek immediate veterinary attention in this situation.
 It is difficult, or even impossible, to know if your dog has cancer without diagnostic tests. Even veterinarians find it difficult to know for sure that a dog has cancer, without running diagnostic tests such as biopsies, diagnostic blood tests, or examining cells from the abnormal area.Seek a second opinion. This will give you a better idea about your options and will hopefully give you more peace of mind that your vet is making the best recommendations for treatment.

