 Lincoln's beard was arguably his most distinctive attribute. His beard was based around the chin and allowed to grow quite bushy, without hiding his shirt collar.Look at pictures of Lincoln's beard and groom your facial hair to match this. You can also make a fake beard with construction paper or brown felt. Use spirit gum to attach it to your face.


Although he's remembered for his beard, there were points in his life where Abraham Lincoln shaved his beard. A woman named Grace Bedell convinced him to grow it out. This had the effect of making Lincoln look more trustworthy and warm., Eyebrows are a distinctive trait of Lincoln's.Although not quite as iconic as the beard, they should be considered if you want to make a convincing Lincoln costume. Either purchase some fake eyebrows from a costume store, or make some of your own by gluing pipe cleaner onto thin strips of brown construction paper. From there, you can glue them to your face using spirit gum.
 Lincoln had a very striking face, with sunken cheeks and protruding cheekbones. One way to replicate this look is by using stage makeup. You should first suck n your cheeks. This way, you'll be able to see where the contours of your face are. Next, take a grey or brown stage makeup and apply it to the area that's sucked in. Blend the edges with your fingers.


Because "gaunt cheek" makeup is usually reserved for horror costumes, it's a good idea to be very moderate with the makeup you use here, provided you're going for a "realistic" Lincoln.You can try different variations on makeup to create different looks. A "zombie" Abe Lincoln can be done by using lots of white with black around the eyes., Lincoln was known for preferring to keep his hair unruly, as opposed to smooth. If your hair length is approximately that of Lincoln's, you should tousle it up by rubbing your hands coarsely through it. If your hair is quite long, you can get some of the same untidy impression by trapping all of your hair under your top hat and letting a few strands hang loose.

