 This blueberry smoothie is a great source of omega-3 fats, antioxidants, and minerals. Just add the milk to the blender, then add the remaining ingredients and blend until smooth. The ingredients include:1 cup base milk, like unsweetened almond, soy, or coconut milk
1 cup blueberries
1 Tablespoon flaxseed oil
Honey or stevia to taste

, This smoothie is a good source of minerals like potassium, probiotics, and omega-3 fats. Add the milk and yogurt to the blender first. Then add the remaining ingredients and blend until smooth. Add to the blender:½ cup low-fat milk or ½ cup of an unsweetened nut milk
½ cup plain (low-fat) regular or Greek yogurt
½ to 1 tablespoon of peanut butter, almond butter, hazelnut butter, or cashew butter
¼ to ½ ripe banana
Honey or stevia to taste

, This smoothie is high in iron, fiber, vitamins A and C, as well as healthy fats. If you add walnuts to the smoothie, it is also a good source of Vitamin E.1 cup washed spinach leaves
1 ½ cup chopped honeydew melon
¼ cup low-fat regular or Greek yogurt
1 tablespoon nuts, like walnuts, cashews, pine nuts, pecans, or hazelnuts
Honey or stevia to taste
Add the yogurt and melon to the blender. Add the remaining ingredients and blend until smooth.
 This smoothie in high in fiber, minerals, antioxidants, and vitamins. Add the kale, oranges, and bananas one at a time to the cranberry base mixture. Add the lime juice as the last ingredient. Include:2 cups fresh kale
1 1/2 cups unsweetened cranberry juice
1/2 cup water, coconut milk, coconut water or rice water
2 oranges, peeled with the seeds removed
2 bananas
Juice of ½ lime

, This smoothie can be a great energy boosting smoothie early in the morning, especially if you use green tea as a base. It is high in antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, and fiber. Additionally, ginger is an anti-inflammatory herb and can help settle an upset stomach. Add the water or tea, spinach, and romaine to the blender. Add the remaining ingredients and blend until smooth. Ingredients include:1 ½ cup water or green tea
1 cup spinach leaves
½ cup romaine lettuce
2 oranges, peeled and seeded
2 bananas
1 inch peeled and chopped ginger
1 cucumber
Honey or stevia to taste

, This is a light, refreshing smoothie perfect for revitalizing yourself in the spring. The dandelion leaves are traditionally used as a spring tonic to remove the winter blues.


1 cup green tea
1 cup cilantro
1 cup chopped kale
1 cup chopped dandelion leaves
1 sliced cucumber
1 cup pineapple chunks
1 inch peeled ginger
½ avocado
Honey or stevia to taste
Add the green tea to the blender. Add the remaining ingredients to the blender and blend until smooth.
 This is a light smoothie that refreshes and revitalizes. The parsley acts to help clear wastes from your body. Add the following to the blender and mix until smooth:1 cup coconut water
⅓ cup coconut milk
½ cup chopped kale
1 stalk celery
1 pear, cored but not peeled
1 tablespoon fresh parsley, about 2 sprigs
½ avocado
Honey or stevia to taste

, This smoothie is very low in calories. It’s full of vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants, which makes it a great pick me up. Add the kale, tomatoes, celery, and scallions to the tea and blend. Then add the garlic, lime, and red pepper as a garnish.1 cup green tea
2 cups chopped kale
3 cups chopped tomatoes
1 or 2 full stalks of celery
2 scallions, chopped
1/4 teaspoon minced fresh garlic
Splash of lime
1/8 teaspoon ground red pepper

