 A sitz bath has become a general phrase for a shallow bath of only a few inches of water. You get in it to soak your anus; however, if you prefer, a full bath can accomplish the same thing. These baths allow for better circulation in the anal area, mostly due to the warmth, and adds extra relaxation and healing of the tissues around your anus. Repeat it two times a day.


You can also buy a sitz bath that fits over your toilet at any pharmacy or medical supply store.Add about one cup of epsom salts to a full bathtub or two to three tablespoons of epsom salts into a few inches of water in the tub or toilet sitz bath. You can also add a tablespoon of witch hazel or baking soda as well.This will help decrease the swelling and inflammation, which will relieve the itching. Keep the water warm, but not too hot. ;
, To help relieve any itching experienced from hemorrhoids, make a towel compress for the area. Soak a clean, soft towel in warm (not hot) water. Apply the compress to your anus for about 10 to 15 minutes. Make sure it is directly on the hemorrhoid. Repeat four to five times a day.


After you finish, use a clean cotton towel to dry yourself thoroughly. Make sure you pat the area. Do not rub your anal region because it will irritate it even more., To relieve itching, you can use a medicated pad. These are available commercially at most drug stores. If you are itching, gently cleanse the area. Next, use one of the wipes to gently wipe the anal area. Do not rub the area. Repeat six times a day.


Make sure you use one of these whenever you have a bowel movement. Always cleanse the area first, then use the pad. Also make sure you throw the pad away after use., Medicated gels and lotions can help reduce itching. Use a small amount of aloe vera gel or Preparation H to help with hemorrhoidal pain and discomfort. Apply it as often as needed.


Avoid any cream that has steroids in it for a long period of time or more than an occasional basis. With repeated use, these can damage the delicate tissue around a hemorrhoid.
If you don't have these, try a tiny bit of baby teething gel on the area. These teething gels contain a local anesthetic that can decrease the itching., Ice packs can help reduce swelling. Apply one to the area once it is clean for not more than 10 minutes. Make sure to wrap the cold compress with a towel so the cold doesn't harm your skin. Repeat several times a day.


You can follow it with a warm compress for 10 to 20 minutes to help ease the discomfort even more. , Herbal astringents, like witch hazel, help with itching skin. Witch hazel acts as an astringent and can help reduce any swelling and itching you experience. Soak a cotton pad with the astringent and apply it after you have cleansed yourself following a bowel movement. Repeat as often as needed, but aim for at least four or five times a day.Never use any herbal astringent on your anus before first cleansing yourself.
 Essential oils may help treat hemorrhoids and reduce itching. To make a treatment, add two to four drops of an essential oil to two fluid ounces of a base oil, such as castor or almond oil. Mix well and apply directly on your external hemorrhoid. You can use one to three oils in your mixture.


Lavender oil can help relieve pain and itching. Cypress oil is used to sooth and help heal the tissues. Tea tree oil is used as an antiseptic and anti-inflammatory oil. Avocado oil can be used as a base or added to other oils. It moisturizes, soothes, and accelerates healing. These can also be applied to internal hemorrhoids, but in general, that would require a partner to apply. If you have a partner willing to help, make sure your partner washes his or her hands before and after application and wear non-latex gloves or a finger cot for the application.

