 Realise that while many people have lots of friends in school, the majority of you are "friends" just because you are in the same class. We all choose our friends, but school situations don't give you many people to choose from so it's fairly likely that you will fall out at some stage.
 Make sure not to talk so much that they can accuse you of talking too much. Talk to them about interesting topics but talk less. If possible, end the conversation with a curious statement. If you can do this, then the chances are, they may want to continue the conversation with you and this time you are not the one who wants to be around them, but the opposite.


If you speak less, then you don't seem irritating, because people find overly talkative people annoying at times.
 Being touchy-feely is when you make physical contact with people too often or in an inappropriate way that they, or people around are uncomfortable with. Sometimes, people don't like being touched by someone whom they find annoying.
 If they're not interested in having you around much, then they're not worth it. Don't appear uninvited in front of them. If you used to do this before and you got rude statements in return from them to stay away etc., stop being with them.


Value your self respect and know your worth. Don't allow anyone to insult you.
 You may do this by moving here and there in your break time, reading an interesting book, by listening to music etc. This may keep you engaged and you won't feel the need to be around them as much.
 If you find them online, ignore the fact that they are online. If they're interested in talking to you, let them start chatting first.
 It's hard to miss someone who is always around, so try to disappear as often as possible when it is break time, as listed above. Don't use the social networking sites for communicating with your friends if you want them to miss you.
 Now it's really the time to move on and stop caring about such people who don't value you.


Make new friends and stay busy with them and you'll totally forget those people.

