 Fat Tuesday is the last and most festive day of the Mardi Gras celebration. It is celebrated the day before Ash Wednesday, which is the beginning of the Catholic celebration of Lent. Depending on the year, it can fall on any Tuesday between February 3rd and March 9th.Some people make their plans for Mardi Gras years in advance. Here is a list of Fat Tuesday dates through 2027: 2018 - Feb. 13; 2019 - March 5; 2020 - Feb. 25; 2021 - Feb. 16; 2022 - March 1; 2023 - Feb. 21; 2024 - Feb. 13; 2025 - March 4; 2026 - Feb. 17; 2027 - Feb. 9 ;
, During the week before Mardi Gras, the population of New Orleans doubles! If you are planning to go to New Orleans, book your plane tickets and hotels well in advance. There are Mardi Gras parades in cities all around the world.Ask around or use a search engine to find out if there are parades or organized celebrations near your hometown.
 All Mardi Gras celebrations are not the same, and your Mardi Gras will probably be more fun if you know what kind of experience you're looking for. Do you want to be with other tourists stumbling drunk around the French Quarter in New Orleans? That's okay, but you might be missing out on very different local celebrations around the city.There will be a different character in different parts of New Orleans and at different events, reflecting the style and values of the krewes that organize them. You can find a list and description of the more established krewes and on NewOrleansonline.com


, So paint your face, wear a mask, and dress for the celebration.


The official colors of Mardi Gras are gold, purple, and green. Try to incorporate these colors into your clothes or makeup.
 On Fat Tuesday, and in the weeks leading up to it, there are dozens of different parades organized by “krewes” throughout New Orleans. Most of these parades will be advertised in advance, and listed here: www.mardigrasneworleans.com/schedule.htm.


Get to the parade route early! Bring food for a picnic and folding chairs to sit on.
In New Orleans, there is a tradition of bringing decorated ladders for children to sit on so they can get a great view.
It will be very crowded! If you go with friends, pick a time and place to meet up if you get separated. You might say: "If we can't find each other, meet at the front gates of Louis Armstrong park on the hour." That way, no matter what time of day you get lost, you'll know when and where to be.
 Along their parade route, different krewes will throw items to onlookers. These are called “throws.” Different throws can be beads, plastic cups, coins with the krewe’s logo on it, gold-painted walnuts, and the most prized throw, the Mardi Gras coconut.You may collect all sorts of souvenirs throughout the day, so bring a bag or backpack to keep your hands free.
Celebrate your catches, and compliment others on their catches.

