 This may depend on whether the machine has both a copy glass and an automatic document feeder. These features depend on the copy machine you are using. Copy glass gives you more control over your copies. Place the original face down and match it to the arrows or margins around the glass for proper alignment. The machine should recognize when an original has been placed on the glass. With the glass it is easier to center your original and you have the option to zoom.


To zoom in on an original, jot down the measurements of the image you wish to enlarge, visible at the perimeter of the glass. Decide how large you want the image to become. This is your target dimension. Remember not to choose a target dimension larger than the paper size. Divide the target dimension width by the actual image size width and multiply this by 100. You can use height instead if you wish. The result is the enlargement percentage. It is the number you will enter into the menu under the enlargement or zoom option.The automatic document feeder is a feature on most copy machines no matter their size. While it gives you less control over your results, it is useful when you have multiple pages to copy. Simply slide the originals in order into the feeder tray.
 Contrast will make text and images stand out from the background. This will make copies clearer and easier to read. On most copiers you select the contrast option from the menu. One you have selected contrast, use the scale on the screen or the arrows on the keyboard to indicate higher or lower contrast., There should be a scale on the screen or arrows on the keypad to indicate this. Newsprint, color to black and white, or photos will need to be lightened. Light text, light colors, or pencil drawings need to be darkened to show up well.
 Enter 1 under quantity and examine the result. If you are satisfied you can proceed with a higher quantity.This is especially important when trying the contrast or zoom features for the first time. It is also easy to misalign a copy on the glass. Keep adjusting until the copies are as clear and centered as possible.


Adjust settings in the machine if your copy is not how you like it. Pages that have been ripped out of a notebook (torn edges) can be moved over or there may be a margin shift button on the machine to make a better copy.
If paper has become jammed, the machine will show you the location of the jam and may have steps for you to follow to clear the trapped page and continue.
An error message means the copier does not have enough information to start copying. Make sure you entered copy quantity and color.
 Use the keypad or screen to enter the number of copies you need.


Once you have entered your quantity, press the large copy button. If something goes wrong, press the red ‘Stop’ or ‘Cancel’ button. It may take the machine a few seconds to stop.

