 Your problems, issues or situation may seem huge to you, but if you look at the world you'll realize just how small you are and therefore how small your issue is.I know that everything is respective to each individual but try to look at the larger picture. When you see how many other problems there are in the world, then your mindset will change. You will see your life differently, hopefully not stress too much about little problems and have a better state of mind. The world is full of billions of people, each with their own problems, and if you realize this then certain things won't be so important to you.;
, Happiness is the key to so many things. If you are happy then your whole way of seeing the world will alter, hopefully into a more positive and better one .You could spend just half an hour a day doing something that makes you smile, such as watching your favorite programs or talking to a friend.If you are doing something that brings you pleasure, then sure enough you will notice that your outlook will improve. Other people will also take notice and this could benefit them too. When you indulge yourself, you become relaxed and you will achieve a better state of mind.
 When you help others you feel amazing. You also start to appreciate your own situation compared to those less fortunate. This can help change your mindset and also make you a better person. You will learn to be more open minded, generous and more grateful all of which will help you achieve an overall better state of mind. Simply help a friend or family member out, give money to charity or volunteer - all of these will help you achieve the outlook you desire.
 Relaxation always helps you accomplish a better state of mind. When you are at peace your mind can do wonders, helping you see the world differently. If you learn how to properly meditate or have another way of totally relaxing yourself then , when in that place, you will be able to clear your thoughts and achieve the type of mindset you're after.
 The future holds many possibilities for everyone, no matter what situation you're in. Don't worry about it too much, but do try to think what will matter in the future. If you are experiencing a problem wonder ' will this matter in a year?'. This will enable you to put everything in perspective, and once you do, you will see that your whole way of thinking will be changed. You won't place importance on things that don't deserve it and do the opposite of things that actually are important. Once you do this, your state of mind should be better, you should be able to see the important things in life and forget the unimportant things.
 Organization is an effective way of helping sort out your mindset. You can do this literally by creating a list of anything that's bothering you or worrying you, or you can do it mentally by going through things in your head. Either way you do it, you will be able to see more clearly and therefore improve your mindset. Once you understand things you can change how you handle them and change how you feel about them. If you confront all of the things on your mind you should be able to discover how you truly feel about certain things and this a great way to make your state of mind better.
 You are the only one who knows what you truly feel. If you get in tune with yourself and listen to what you want or what you feel, then you will also be able to confront what's on your mind. You can try to change things you understand fully better than trying to alter something you don't really know. If you listen to yourself you will achieve a better mindset where you understand yourself, how you feel about things and you will see situations more clearly.

