 It is important that you are there to supervise your dog when it meets your neighbors. Predicting how your dog will act when it is introduced to a new person is difficult. You must be present to ensure a safe and positive interaction. For example, you should not allow your elderly neighbors to enter your yard and greet your dog when you are not present.
 After you have decided on a space to meet, allow your dog to approach your elderly neighbors in a relaxed and friendly manner. This will give your dog a chance to signal that they are okay with the interaction. Make sure your dog is on a leash when they approach your neighbors.Do not force the interaction. It may take a couple of visits before your dog is comfortable enough to approach your neighbors on its own. If you force your dog to approach them, or have them approach the dog, you risk creating a situation that is more stressful for your dog than enjoyable.
 When you introduce your dog to your neighbors, it is important that your neighbors use calm and soft voices. Your neighbors should also limit their body movements to those that are slow and gentle, avoiding any abrupt movements that might startle or frighten your new dog., While many humans think that dogs enjoy being hugged and kissed, these acts of affection can cause fear, discomfort, or even aggression in some dogs. Gently let your elderly neighbors know that your dog does not like to be hugged, kissed or being patted roughly on the head. Instead, suggest gently petting your dog on the chest or back., It is important that you don’t let your new dog jump up on your neighbors when you introduce them. Jumping up on people is a common behavior in dogs, but it is not one you want to encourage. This is especially important when your dog is meeting elderly people, as they often have health problems that could be exacerbated from having a dog jump up on them., Meeting new people can be stressful for some dogs. If your dog is exhibiting signs of stress as it meets your elderly neighbors, immediately remove your dog from the situation. Forcing your dog to socialize could result in aggressive behavior or emotional distress for your dog. Signs of stress include:Ears that are down and back
Licking of the lips
Tucking of the tail
Yawning
Turning the head away from people

, If your dog does a good job interacting with your elderly neighbors and follows your commands, you should reward your dog. For example, if your dog sits and stays before greeting your neighbors, give them a small treat. You can also ask your neighbors to give your new dog a treat after a pleasant interaction.

