 Before you can get an early termination of your probation, you need to see if you are eligible for that option. In order to be eligible for early termination, you must have completed either 33% or 2 years of probation, whichever is shorter.


For example, if your total probation period was 10 years, you could apply for a reduction in 2 years, because 33% of completion would be in 3.3 years.;
, In Texas, most offenses qualify for a reduction in probation. However, there are certain offenses that lead to probation are not eligible for a reduction in probation time. There is no way for you to reduce your probation period if you are on probation for any offense that requires registration as a sex offender, murder, capital murder, indecency with a child, aggravated kidnapping, aggravated assault, or aggravated robbery.


You also cannot get shortened probation if you were convicted of driving while intoxicated, driving while intoxicated with a child passenger, flying a plane while intoxicated, boating while intoxicated, assembling or operating an amusement park ride while intoxicated, intoxication assault, or intoxication manslaughter., Your probation officer can help you achieve your goal of early termination. Have an honest conversation with your probation officer. Tell your probation officer politely upfront that you want to do whatever is necessary to end your probation as quickly as possible. Ask him what he thinks you should do to achieve that goal and then do what he suggest.


Make sure you are up to date on any restitution payments or other court ordered fees. This will help you look better in the eyes of the court and show you probation officer that you deserve to be let off early.Before your hearing, it is likely that your probation officer will want to interview you to fully understand where you are in your rehabilitation. Make sure you do not lie to him. Tell him everything in your history that might come up at the hearing.
You want to show how much you have changed and how remorseful you are about your crime. Show your probation officer that you have learned from your past and are a better person now. Don't lay it on thick, however. Just be honest with how far you have come as a person since your arrest., Texas is known for being tough on crime, and many judges do not easily terminate someone’s probation early. However, having an attorney can greatly increase your chances of getting your probation reduced. A local criminal defense attorney will have relationships with the judges, and will know the best way to present your case to them.


Additionally, an attorney can make sure that anything submitted to the court on your behalf complies with state procedure.
 If you have an attorney, ask your attorney to file a motion to terminate your probation. There is no form for this motion, but your attorney will know the information that should be included. If you do not have an attorney, you can ask your probation officer to send your file back to the judge for an early termination hearing.


Once the judge has seen your file and verified that you are eligible for early termination, you will be contacted to schedule a hearing.

