 Open the application drawer located at the bottom right of the main screen. Scroll through and locate the Google Play Store app. It will look like a white shopping bag with a play symbol in the middle. Tap to open.;
, In the upper right-hand corner, tap the magnifying glass and type in “Custom launchers.” Tap the magnifying glass on the on-screen keyboard in the lower right-hand side of the screen to begin the search.
 The currently compatible list of custom launchers for the Long Shadow Icon Pack is Nova Launcher, ADW Launcher, Apex Launcher, Go Launcher, Action Launcher, Smart Launcher, and Aviate Launcher. Select one of these launchers.


Tap on the app’s name to open its info page, hit “Install,” and tap “Accept” in the box that appears.
 When the installation is complete there will be a white box with a check mark in the middle on the notification bar at the top of the device. Pull down the notification bar, and tap the chosen launcher’s icon to open the app.
 Do this by selecting “Set as default” on the launcher’s screen.


The location of this option is different depending on the launcher you opted to download, but it’s usually either in the middle of the screen or at the bottom.
You can also set the launcher to default by pressing the Home button on your device. Select the launcher’s name from the options that pop up, and tap “Always.”

, Open the app drawer located at the bottom right of the main screen. Scroll through and locate the Google Play Store app. It will look like a white shopping bag with a play symbol in the middle. Tap to open.
 In the upper right-hand corner, tap the magnifying glass and type in “Long Shadow Icon Pack.” Tap the magnifying glass on the on-screen keyboard in the lower right-hand side of the screen to begin the search.
 The first search result at the top will have an LS in the middle of a light blue, gray-blue, and dark-blue square. This will be contained in a white rectangle. In the upper right-hand side of the rectangle will be 3 dots. Tap to open, hit “Install,” and tap “Accept” in the box that appears.
 When the installation is complete, there will be a white box with a check mark in the middle on the notification bar at the top of the device. Pull down the notification bar and tap the Long Shadow Icon Pack icon to open the app.
 Once the Long Shadow Icon Pack app opens, it will ask what launcher is currently installed on the device. Select whichever launcher you set as default on the Android device (e.g., Nova Launcher).
 After selecting the launcher, you will have to apply the Long Shadow Icon theme. How to apply will differ depending on the launcher. Just follow the on-screen instructions on applying the long shadows to your icons.


For example, ADW Launcher needs the “Apply” button in the upper right-hand corner to be hit in order to finish applying the icon pack.
Once the theme has been applied, all icons should now have a long shadow on them.

