 In most cases, everything you learn for that class throughout the semester such as special projects, tests, and exams are outlined clearly on the syllabus to help you with studying. Look over your course syllabus to determine which subjects you need to study for the upcoming test.More precisely, look at the headings and bulletpoints that appear within outlined units or in between scheduled exams. If you know the test covers material from Units 5, 6, and 7, you can glance through the topics covered in those units, as well as the homework/projects done within those units. Use that information to figure out which of your materials will help you review.
 If you’re a note-taker, your notes could be a great source of information that might be featured on the next test. Look over your notes to see if there’re any topics you need to spend more time studying.Identify the date of your last test, and study all notes you took after that date. In most cases, you’ll be tested on information you learned following your last test.
If you’re not a note-taker, now’s the time to become one. Regularly attend class, pay attention to key information your teacher discusses, and write down enough information to help you remember the facts or ideas covered. By learning to take effective notes, you’ll make it much easier to study for tests while also demonstrating to your teacher that you’re a serious student.
 Keep all homework, essays, and projects you get back from your teacher after he or she finishes grading them. Oftentimes, the material that you spent time practicing or reviewing on your homework will appear on the exam in some form.As with other study tactics, consult the homework you completed after the previous test, since it’s more likely to contain information you haven’t been tested on yet.
Pay special attention to ideas or principles practiced over multiple assignments. For example, if you completed three separate worksheets on a particular formula, but only one worksheet on another formula, there’s a good chance that first formula will appear on your test in greater detail than the second.
 This helps you identify whether your teacher generally sticks to using the same test format, and can give you a better idea of the type of information you’ll be tested on. For example, if your last three tests featured two essay questions you might have struggled with, be prepared to face two more essay questions on the next test, then study accordingly.It’s also a good idea to keep any quizzes or tests that are graded and returned to you. Information from past quizzes may appear on a larger test covering more material. Similarly, information from past tests might appear on a mid-term or final exam.

