 If you are just starting out, keep your routine short and simple. Try to make it a daily or every other day habit. There are a number of small stretches that can be performed to quickly increase good posture. Try adding some of these exercises to your daily routine:Shoulder rolls: Stand or sit comfortably. As you inhale, lift your shoulders up towards your ears. On the exhale, roll them back, squeezing your shoulder blades together. Repeat five to 10 times.
Release chest: Raise your arms just below your shoulders, keeping palms facing forward. As you inhale, raise your straight arms in front of you, just below the shoulders, keeping palms facing forward. As you exhale, slowly rotate palms so that your fingers point behind you while you open up your arms, similar to a hugging movement. Repeat three to five times.
Pyramid: Step your right foot back so it is flat against the floor and square your hips. With both legs straight, clasp arms behind your back and lean forward from your hips. Keep your back straight and do not round your spine. Take three to five breaths from this position and rise back to standing. Repeat on the other side.
Snow angels: Lie down on the floor and slowly make snow angels with your arms for two to three minutes. Put a rolled up towel underneath your middle spine to increase the stretch.Do not put the towel under your lower back, as this can cause you to hyperextend your back.
 Keeping your core muscles tight helps maintain good posture. Pilates and yoga classes focus on strengthening pelvic and abdominal muscles. Strengthening your core helps support your muscles and keep everything balanced.


Check your local gym or fitness studio for available classes.
Start at the beginner level to avoid injury.
Some simple exercises you can try at home include:Bridge: Lie on your back with your knees bent. Keep your hips straight and tighten your abdominal muscles. Raise your hips until they are aligned with your knees and shoulders, forming a 90 degree angle. Hold for three breaths and slowly lower your hips back to the ground. Repeat three to five times.
Side plank: Lie on your left side, raising your body onto your left forearm. Align your left shoulder over your left elbow, keeping knees, hips, and shoulders aligned. Rest your right arm against the side of your body. Lift your hips off the ground engaging your abdominal muscles. Hold for three breaths. Repeat three to five times and then switch to the right side. To increase the difficulty, straighten your arm and support your weight on your hand instead of resting on your forearm.
Superman: Lie flat on your stomach with your arms in front of you and your legs straight out behind you. Lift your arms and legs as high as you can, keeping all of your joints aligned straight. Hold for three breaths. Repeat three to five times. You can place a pillow under your stomach to reduce the likelihood of hyperextending your back.
Russian twist:Sit on the floor with your knees bent. Lean back just enough to make a V-shape between your thighs and upper body. Keep a natural curve in the lower back. Extend your arms fully out in front of you and twist your torso to the left side until your arms touch the floor. Return to a neutral position, pause, and then twist to the right. Twist back to the right side. Do this from anywhere between 20 – 50 times. To make it more difficult, hold a weight in your hands.
 Oftentimes, bad posture is the product of weakened or imbalanced muscles.To correct this, try doing exercises that specifically focus on strengthening the muscles around the spine, such as the back extensors, neck flexors, and side muscles. Ask a trainer at the gym to suggest some strengthening exercises using the equipment available or try some of the simple exercises below.Reverse fly: Stand up straight, with knees slightly bent, back straight, and feet shoulder-width apart. Holding a 5-8 pound weight in each hand, bend forward at the hips, keeping your back straight. With palms facing down, raise your arms up as far as you can, squeezing your shoulder blades together. It should look like you are "spreading your wings." Keep your elbows slightly bent and make sure your head remains in a neutral position and is not flexed forward. Do two sets of 15 reps.
Row: Hold a five to eight pound weight in each hand. Stand with feet shoulder-width apart, knees bent, and lean forward at the hips keeping your back straight. Pull your hands up toward your chest and squeeze your shoulder blades together. Do two sets of 10 reps.
Arm and leg extension: Start on all fours keeping your back straight. Raise your left leg and extend it back behind you. With the leg extended, lift your right arm and reach forward. Hold this for five seconds and then switch sides. Repeat 10 times.
If any of these exercises cause extreme pain, stop immediately and talk to your doctor.

