 Slice a couple of thin slices from a fresh or cold cucumber. Place these over your eyes for about 10 minutes or until the cucumber slices get warm. Cucumbers have high water content, and this water will transfer to your skin, helping to hydrate the area around your eyes.
 Tea bags have long been known as a good remedy for puffy eyes. Place two wet tea bags in the freezer to chill them. They do not need to freeze overnight, since you want to be able to lay them on your eyes comfortably. Green and black tea contain bioflavonoids, which are known to assist in the body’s reactions to allergens and inflammation, among other benefits.Place the tea bags over your eyes for about 10 minutes, or until the tea bags are warm. Rinse your face with cold water.









You can also rinse your eyes in green tea or chamomile tea as a cleanser. Steep a tea bag in boiling water in a mug. Allow the tea to cool at least to match your body temperature. Wash your eyes with the tea, and then wash your face as you normally would., Freeze two metal spoons overnight. Place the rounded sides of the spoons against your eyes in the morning. They will feel very cold, so you will likely need to place them on your eyes for as long as you can manage and then take them off to give your eyes a rest. This will increase blood flow to your eyes and reduce puffiness.
 Beat a few raw egg whites together. Apply this mixture to your eyes as a mask and leave it on for about 15 minutes. Rinse off your face with cold water. This mask will make the skin around your eyes feel tighter, which may help your eyes look more youthful.
 Potatoes are astringent, which will help reduce puffiness. They also have catecholase, an enzyme that combats dark circles by brightening the skin under the eyes.Cut a couple of slices from a raw potato. Put these slices in the fridge or freezer to chill them (about 15-30 minutes). Place these slices on your eyes for about 10 minutes or until the slices are warm. Rinse your face with cold water and pat dry with a towel.
 Pour a small amount of cold whole milk into a cup. Soak two cotton balls in the milk until they are saturated with milk. Lay back with your head resting on a towel to catch any drips. Place the cotton balls on your closed eyes for about 10 to 15 minutes. Wash and rinse your face, and pat dry with a towel.
 Strawberries are useful in reducing puffiness because of their anti-inflammatory properties, and they also contain alpha-hydroxy acids, which are typically included in expensive face creams. Alpha-hydroxy acids enable the skin to slough off dead cells, making skin look younger.If you start to feel pain make sure to remove the strawberries immediately because they can have reddening effects.Cut the tops off a couple of fresh strawberries, and slice up the strawberries. Place the slices over your eyes for about 5 minutes. Wash your face with soap and water.
 There are a number of herb-based remedies that can help reduce puffiness in eyes and restore clear, bright eyes. Some of these remedies include rose water, mint leaves, lavender, fennel, honey and cardamom, turmeric and amla. Search online for specific recipes and directions on the proportions for these mixtures.