 It can be hard to maintain the same work hours every day when you work from home, but maintaining regular work hours can help you to keep your work and home life separate.Choose realistic work hours and stick to them. For example, you might decide to work from 8:00am to 4:30pm on Monday through Friday.


Don’t let your work hours creep into your personal time. When it is time to stop for the day, stop working, shut down your laptop, and step away from your work space.
Try to set work hours that work with your personal life. For example, try to avoid working on the weekends if you know that there are things you will want to do.
 Change into work clothes in the morning and non-work clothes in the evening. Rolling out of bed and going straight to your workspace in your pajamas will make it harder for you to transition into your workday. The same thing goes for wearing your work clothes into the evening.Try getting up about 30 to 60 minutes before you want to start working for the day so that you can get dressed for work.
Make sure that you change out of your work clothes when it is time to relax. For example, you can switch to pajamas or your favorite jeans and a t-shirt.
 When you work at an office, taking a lunch break is necessary and you may even have someone else reminding you to take one. However, when you work from home, it can be hard to remember to take lunch breaks and you may be tempted to work through your lunch or eat at your workspace. Instead, make lunch breaks a mandatory part of your day.Set a time for your lunch break to start and end every day. For example, you might agree to take lunch from 12:00 to 12:30 each day.
Ask a family member or significant other to remind you when it is time for your lunch break. If you are worried about forgetting to take a lunch break, then ask one of your friends or family members to come get you when it is time for a break.
 You may be tempted to do things around your house while you are taking a quick break or making a work phone call, but this can blur the dividing line between work and home.Try to prevent yourself from doing any housework or anything that is not work related while you are on the clock. If you notice a household chore that you want to complete, write it down on a notepad and save it for the end of your work day.
Keep in mind that everyone is different. For example, if you find that folding laundry is a soothing way for you to spend a break, then go for it!

, Finding a simple way to reward yourself for a hard day of work is also important. You can reward yourself with a walk outside, a cup of tea, a chat with a friend, or any other pleasant activity that indicates your work day is over.Consider doing something social at the end of each day. Working from home can be isolating, so it is important for you to find ways to interact with other people. You can do this by talking to your significant other, meeting up with some friends for coffee, or taking an aerobics class after work.

