 This can be done by either double-clicking the GTA: VC shortcut icon on the desktop, if it is there, or by following this Start Menu sequence: Start button >> All Programs >> Rockstar Games >> Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.
 Press Enter repeatedly to skip through the pre-game cinematics till you arrive at the Main Menu. Click “Start Game” and then “New Game” to start GTA: VC from the beginning, or click “Load Game” to load a previously saved file and continue from there. This will enter you into the game world.
 This is one of the legit ways you can earn money quickly in the game.To trigger a mission in GTA: VC, check your map (located to the bottom left corner of your screen) for icons that represent missions. These icons could be pink- or green-colored blips or sometimes letter icons that represent the gang boss giving you the mission (e.g., L for Lawyer).


Drive to the location, and when you arrive at the location, get out the car and approach the blue marker. Stand in the marker to immediately activate the mission. A pre-mission cinematic will play that will give you the mission instructions.
Upon successfully completing the mission, a “Mission Completed” message will appear on the screen and will also indicate the money earned. A mission in GTA VC can pay as little as $100 (e.g., “The Party” mission) or as much as $30,000 (e.g., “Keep Your Friends Close…” mission).
 These are other missions in GTA: VC apart from the ones in the main story, and they can help one to quickly rack up some cash. They include:


Vigilante: killing criminals; requires cop car
Ambulance: rescuing and rushing patients to hospital; requires ambulance van
Firefighter: putting out fires; requires firefighter truck
To do a side mission, get into the respective vehicle and press the CAPS LOCK key. For instance, for Vigilante, get into a cop car and press CAPS LOCK. This will immediately activate the mission. Text will be displayed on the screen indicating the time you have to complete that level of the Vigilante mission, and the police radio will inform you of the last-seen position of the suspect you need to eliminate. A green blip will also appear on your map showing you the movement of the suspect.
You will earn an amount of money for each level of the side mission (starting at $100), and a higher amount for each additional level you complete.
A side mission ends when you fail to complete a level, or if you press CAPS LOCK again to turn it off.

