 When the Christmas rush begins, it can be easy to overlook sending Santa's letter on time. Doing it early can help you learn what your child is hoping to get for Christmas and gives your child something else to look forward to.
 If they do not know what to write, suggest they say hello and hope Santa is well, introduce themselves, and let Santa know what gifts they are hoping to get this year (leaving them to decide how vague or detailed a list they care to make). Try to make it an exercise in being polite, organized, and learning that we do not always get what we ask for. This is better than going on about being a "good boy or girl," which is both subjective and open to misinterpretations by the child about his or her own worth if they don't get what they asked for.


Read through the letter in case there is anything that does not make sense. Have your child correct anything that does not make sense, but do not worry about spelling or grammar errors.
 The method of sending will impact the method of its creation.


If the letter will be sent by snail mail, have your child write it on paper and place the letter in the envelope. Let your child decorate the envelope if he or she wishes to do so.
If it will be sent online, it will need to be typed into the online form. If your child needs help with this, pull up another chair and have him or her sit next to you as you type; otherwise, just have them type and ask for you to check it before they submit. (This also gives you a good opportunity to take a screenshot for a keepsake.)

, The following outlines how to post or email the letter.


Send it by post. Write the following address on the envelope:

Santa Claus, Arctic Circle, 96930 Rovaniemi, Finland. Or,
Santa Claus, North Pole, H0H 0H0, Canada
Post it. Do not forget to add sufficient postage. A big part of the fun is to have your child place it into the letterbox. Make a ritual of it.


Send it online. Look for "Write Santa Claus at Home" at http://www.santa-at-home.com/writesanta.shtml. This is a free service.

Fill out the basic information needed stating whether it is for a boy or girl and his or her age.
Under "Send Santa Your List for Christmas" type the Christmas list.
Below the text box is an envelope, enter the child's first name and your (or the child's) email address.
Once you have completed the envelope form, click on "Send Your Letter to Santa."



, Santa will get back to you soon.

