 Opt for compact fluorescent (CFL) or light-emitting diode (LED) bulbs. These options use an average of 75 percent less electricity (usually sourced from coal). They also last much longer (5 to 20 years), saving you lots of money in the long run.CFLs and LEDs shine brighter than incandescent bulbs. This can cause problems for people with light sensitivity issues. If you’re sensitive to bright lights, look into fitting your lamps with darker lamp shades. For ceiling fixtures, consider installing LED-compatible dimmers., Turn off the lights in rooms you’re not in. On sunny days, open the curtains for some free solar lighting. Consider switching to timers or motion sensors if you need lights on in unused areas for security or safety reasons. Use dimmers and less lighting later at night to help your body get ready for sleep. If you’re reading or sewing, use a direct lamp rather than overhead lighting.
 You might think your coffee maker or computer is switched off. However, if it’s still plugged in to a wall outlet, it’s consuming energy. Unplug these devices when not in use. If unplugging is too time-consuming, invest in power strips for appliances that don’t need to be plugged in 24/7. When you want to power everything down, simply flip a switch to cut the power to the wall outlet., Central air often uses coal-based electricity. Central heating often uses oil or natural gas. Adjusting the temperature just one or two degrees can help to conserve resources. To maximize your comfort, dress warmly and use thick blankets during colder weather. When it’s hot outside, close the blinds on east-facing windows in the morning and west-facing windows in the afternoon.


Insulate your home with weather stripping, caulk, and eco-friendly insulation. This will prevent cold winter air and hot summer air from making your home uncomfortable., Most clothes dryers are electricity hogs. You can solve this problem by opting to air dry your laundry. On hot sunny days, hang your laundry outside to dry. If it’s cool and/or rainy (or if you’re drying your undergarments), dry your clothes indoors on drying racks. Your clothes will take slightly longer to dry, but the planet and your wallet will thank you., Do this when you’re showering, washing dishes, or doing the laundry. Cool or cold water reduces fossil fuel consumption by about 90 percent. In the washing machine, it also preserves your clothes longer than hot water does.Don’t worry about germs surviving in cool water. As long as you’re using soap, you’ll still kill germs., In many locations, the prices of solar and wind energy are competitive with fossil fuels.Although many national governments in Europe and North America have ended subsidies, some local governments still provide tax breaks for solar panels and/or wind turbines.Check with your city or state/provincial government to see if they offer these incentives.


Solar panels come in a variety of sizes for rooftops and yards.If you prefer wind power, you can build or buy a turbine small enough for your backyard.If you’re an apartment/condo dweller or if you rent your home, look into buying offsets. Check online for power companies that match your energy consumption with clean power. You can stay with your current utility company, and it only takes a few minutes to sign up.