 His parents will ask you questions because they are trying to get to know you. However, the conversation should not be all about you. You need to show them that you are interested in them. If you did your homework, you should already have some questions that you can ask.For example, if you know his mother loves gardening, ask her about her plans for the next planting season. You may say, "___ told me that you love gardening, what do you plan to plant next season?"
You can also ask them about their profession. You may say, "Mr. ___, ___ said that you are a dentist. How did you become interested in that?"

, If you are having dinner at his home, offer to help wash the dishes or clear the table. Ask if there is anything that you can do. This shows that you are humbleand a team player.This may also give you some one-on-one time with one of his parents as well.


You can simply say, "Mrs. ___, let me help you with those dishes." You could also say, "Do you need any help in the kitchen?"
Have a positive attitude when you help. If you hate washing dishes, your boyfriend's parents do not need to know that.
Never complain or whine in front of his parents.
 Your boyfriend likes you for the person you are and is excited for you to meet his parents. Show his parents the same person that he fell for. If you try too hard to impress his parents, they will see right through you. You want to come across as a genuine person.If they are talking about something that you don't know about, listen and ask some questions instead of pretending like you are familiar with the topic.
Be honest when you talk to them. If your grades aren't that good and they ask you how school is going, you may say, "I didn't do well last grading period, but I'm working really hard now," instead of lying and saying that you are a straight A student.
 Try not bring up things such as politics and religion. These topics are very personal and can lead to heated discussions. It is easier to steer clear and not worry about offending anyone or becoming offended.If any of these topics come up, do more listening instead of talking. Wait until you know his family better before you discuss these topics.
Also stay out of any family feuds or issues that are brought up.Do not choose a side and remain quiet.
 Do not forget about your boyfriend while you are trying to impress his parents. His parents are interested in seeing how the two of you interact as well.Compliment him and laugh at his jokes.


You could say, "I have really enjoyed meeting you guys. I can see where ___ gets his manners/sense of humor from."
Do not criticize him in front of his parents. Even if you tease him as a joke, his parents might not find it funny.
Don't be too touchy-feely in front of his parents. His parents do not want to see that.Some hand-holding may be fine, but talk to your boyfriend about this before the meeting.

