 Before you begin applying for jobs, you will want to take some time to consider where you’d like to be. China is very large and offers a diverse range of climates, so it is worth considering what type of climate you’d like to live in. Also, large cities such as Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou offer many types of Western food and other amenities. , Search online for sources such as The International Educator and International School Services. International school administrators use these services to list current and future openings. These organizations also conduct job fairs in various locations to recruit teachers around the world.To gain access to the most up to date lists, subscribe to the publications of these international organizations.
Conditions vary greatly in foreign countries, and it is advisable to gather information on housing, currency exchange rates, cost of living and local transportation before signing a contract for international positions.
 Each job application will vary a bit, however you will likely be asked to submit a resume or curriculum vitae, a cover letter, verification of your TEFL certificate, transcripts verifying your bachelor’s degree, and a copy of your passport. In some cases, you may also be asked to submit an essay that explains your desire to live and work in China.Compare the provisions of the contract with care. (Fine print could make a significant difference to a teacher in China.)
Contracts often require a specific period of service before transportation to the home of record is provided.
Early termination of a contract might require payment for the return ticket, which could be expensive.
 Every school is going to make a different offer, and in some cases, these can vary widely. For example, housing might be provided in one school while another school provides a housing allowance. Make sure you understand all of the terms of the contract, and compare offers from different schools before signing., Many recruiting agencies exist to try and fill job openings in China. Although some individuals report positive experiences finding work this way, many others describe being deceived about the quality of their housing, the work requirements, the financial bonuses that were promised, and so on. If you intend to seek the services of a recruiter or agency, do so with extreme caution.