 It’s important to do a little research before you allow your child to download applications and use them. For one, know what the age limits are for certain apps or social media sites. If you know an application may be risky or dangerous, do not allow your child to download it. If they do want to download an application, have them state their reasons why they’d like to use it and any potential dangers it may have.


Most social media websites restrict young children from registering. A child must be 13 or older to use Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Tumblr, Snapchat, and Pinterest. YouTube’s age requirement is 18, but if a child is 13 or older they can sign up with parental permission.
Yoursphere (a kids social network) is designed specifically for children’s safety and privacy.
 You can purchase tools to monitor your child’s phone activity from your own phone or computer. These programs tend to be extensive in the information you can see, so adjust what content on your child’s cell phone you want to monitor. If you have multiple children with a cell phone, many programs allow customization for up to five cell phones.Some programs let you log on to check activity, while others also allow you to set up alerts to your child’s activity.
 Some parents may want all location services turned off to protect their child’s privacy. This can keep applications from sharing their location or disallowing “checking in”. Others parents, however, may want to use software to track where their child is at a given time. If you’re concerned your child says they’re going one place yet are suspicious you are going somewhere else, this application can be helpful for confirmation.Do some research for providers that offer location tracking. You can find a web-based program or look into applications on your own phone that can track another phone.
 Decide how you will handle their social media accounts. You may choose to not let them install social media applications on their phone and only let them use social media on the family computer. Decide what accounts they are allowed to have and as always, toggle the security settings to protect their privacy.


For a younger child or for a child who may be at a higher risk, have their social media passwords so that you can monitor their activity. As they get older or more mature, you may wish to relax your rules.Friend or follow your child on their social media accounts. This is a step down from having their passwords, yet still allows you to see what they’re doing and posting. However, beware if your child sets up a different or secret account that you do not follow., If you’re monitoring your child’s phone, look out for any inappropriate content. This can occur over social media or messaging applications. Inappropriate content can occur in comments, posts, emails, texts, or photos. It can also be an image your child shares. If your child posts something inappropriate, have them remove it right away. If necessary, have them apologize to anyone who may have been hurt.If your child posts something illegal (such as a nude photo), do not share it or spread it in any way. Contact the police right away.

