 Built-in ovens and cook tops offer streamlined and space-saving design, but can be more expensive to install, repair, and replace. Freestanding ranges (as well as "slide-in" or "drop-in" models) are often cheaper and are more widely available. Your decision in this matter will depend not only on budget and aesthetic preferences, but also on your current kitchen configuration. Replacing a freestanding unit with a built-in model, for example, will require major remodeling work.;
, Stoves come in many different widths, from compact 20-inch (50 cm) models to huge 60-inch (150 cm) professional-grade stoves. If you are replacing your current stove, it is most economical to go for the same size to avoid the cost of rebuilding the surrounding cabinetry. If you are designing a kitchen from scratch, you can choose a size based on your space constraints and personal preferences.
 Gas stoves tend to offer more rapid and even heat, while electric models are easier to install. If you already have either a gas line or 220/240 volt stove outlet installed, it is most economical to replace your current stove with the same kind.
 Stoves come in several different finishes, including white, black, stainless steel, and a multitude of bright colors. Consider your kitchen's color scheme and the finish on your other appliances when choosing a finish.
 Once you know your desired size, fuel source, finish, and whether you want a freestanding or built-in unit, you should begin looking at both used and new stoves that fit those specifications.


Used stoves represent the most economical choice. It is fairly easy to find used stoves in good condition on online classified sites like Craigslist. Though you may have to make some aesthetic sacrifices when working with a very small budget, you can also find reasonably priced stoves from the 1950s or 1960s that have a distinctive retro charm.
Buying a new stove will give you more choice as well as the peace of mind that comes with a new appliance with a warranty. Budget-model stoves can still be had at reasonable prices, while luxury brands like Aga and Viking come with astronomical price tags.
If you want the safety and security of a new stove but still want vintage charm, you can consider a retro-themed stove from companies like Big Chill and Elmira Stove Works.

