 Think about how many people come in and out of a store in a given day. The average cashier has probably seen people make a wide variety of purchases. Many customers probably also bought items they found embarrassing, including pads. Keep this in mind when making your purchase. It can help to remember the cashier is probably not thinking about you as much as you are thinking about them., About half the population experiences their period once a month. It is nothing to be embarrassed about. In fact, your period is evidence you are growing up and your body is functioning as it should.If you feel embarrassed going into the store, remind yourself that your period is normal. Think about how many other people have their period each month.
If a sibling, friend, or classmate teases you, try to ignore them. Tell them this just means you're growing up and it's immature to laugh at a normal bodily process., Making jokes about things that frighten or embarrass us can often make them seem less upsetting. Try to make jokes about your period or laugh about it in your head. This can help you feel less embarrassed when doing things like purchasing pads.If you're not sure how to laugh at your period, you can look up jokes online. Many female standup comedians make period jokes.
Joke around with a friend. When you're feeling sensitive about something, it can be hard to make light of it on your own. Sometimes, having a friend laugh with you can help. Make a lighthearted joke, like, "I feel like my face looks like a pizza I'm breaking out so bad from my period."

, Think about other moments you've been embarrassed. The negative feelings probably faded with time. You probably don't really think about past embarrassing moments that much anymore. Remembering that embarrassment is temporary can help you feel more confident about buying pads.It can help to write down a list of your five most embarrassing moments and then read it over. For example, "The time I fell down in front of everyone during a gymnastics event." Most of these moments will probably seem less embarrassing in the present than they did in the past.

