 Survivors of domestic violence usually leave their homes quickly to escape from abuse. In their rush to seek safety, they leave behind most of their belongings. When you donate items and money to community domestic violence organizations, you’re helping victims get back on their feet.


Collect professional attire. Finding employment is an important first step for victims. They need to look professional at interviews so they can land a job. Then they need an appropriate wardrobe once they start working. Partner with a local organization such as Dress for Success and help with a collection drive. Victims need suits, dress shirts, dress pants, shoes, handbags and accessories.Create healthy meals for victims and their children. Contact local domestic violence shelters in your area and ask to help with meal preparation. Shelters often need dry and canned food donations, meal preparation help and assistance with cooking.Provide school supplies. When victims relocate to a shelter, it means their children are starting a new school. Often the parents cannot afford school supplies for their children. Contact your local domestic violence shelter or Salvation Army to see how you can donate items such as backpacks, crayons, pencils, notebooks, tissues and hand sanitizer.
Collect used cell phones. Donate old cell phones to domestic violence assistance programs such as Hopeline from Verizon. Hopeline refurbishes old phones and gives free phone and texting services to domestic violence victims. The phones are a life line to victims, who are often closely monitored or harassed by abusers.;
, From legal appointments, counseling sessions and job interviews, victims have a lot of work to do to get their lives back on track. When you volunteer as a childcare assistant at a domestic violence center or shelter, you’re giving victims peace of mind. They know their children are being safely cared for while they are away. Contact your local domestic violence shelter to find out about training and other requirements such as background checks.Childcare volunteers care for infants, toddlers, preschoolers and school age children. Children over age five usually need care before and after school, while younger children need all day care. You'll help to create a stable environment for children who've come from an unstable or a violent home. You'll provide much needed comfort and support to young ones who are adjusting to a new and unfamiliar place., Help victims keep track of legal appointments and accompany them to court appointments. Victims need help understanding domestic violence laws and connecting with appropriate legal resources.


You typically don’t need a legal background because the domestic violence organization provides training to legal advocacy volunteers. However, you do need to be available during court hours., Volunteer at a domestic violence call center to help victims find resources such as local shelters. You’ll also help them develop a plan to safely get away from their abusers. You’ll go through extensive training prior to answering calls.


Volunteering as a hotline advocate is rewarding because you're a lifeline to the person struggling with abuse. You're often the first person a victim ever contacts for help. However, constantly hearing about trauma can take an emotional toll on you. Pay attention to signs of compassion fatigue such as difficulty sleeping or withdrawing from things you used to enjoy. Prevent compassion fatigue by regularly talking with colleagues and supervisors, taking breaks during your shift and making time each day to do something relaxing such as taking a brisk walk or caring for a pet., Most domestic violence organizations provide educational programs in schools or community centers. The programs raise awareness and aid in preventing domestic violence. Ask your local domestic violence organization how you can help with their community education efforts. Sometimes they need teaching assistants or curriculum developer volunteers.As a volunteer facilitator or curriculum developer, you'll help with programs such as teens and dating violence or domestic violence prevention in adult relationships. Help create lesson plans that appeal to the audience. For example, middle schoolers need different content and interactions than adults. You may also present or teach the information. Help people of all ages understand dating and domestic partner violence so they can stop the cycle of abuse.