 Before you even think about going out to purchase a rug pad, you’ll need to know your rug’s dimensions. Use a tape measure to record the length and width of the rug. If your rug has fringes, leave them out of the measurement. The rug pad won’t need to cover them., You can get non-slip rug pads at any home improvement store or at dedicated carpet stores. If you can’t find a rug pad that matches your rug’s size, get one that has enough excess to comfortably fit your rug.Make sure to get a rug pad made of vinyl; materials like plastic or rubber might discolor wooden floors., If the rug pad is larger than your rug, you’ll need to trim it to fit. Set one of the rug pad’s corners up near the rug’s corners, leaving about an inch (2.5 cm)of clearance on either side. For each side where the rug pad hangs off, use a marker and a ruler to draw straight lines an inch (2.5 cm) away from the rug’s edge.


Make sure the rug is upside down for this, with the bottom of the rug facing upwards., Use scissors to cut along the lines you’ve traced in marker. General crafting or kitchen scissors should do fine. Make sure not to catch the rug as you cut; you may want to take the rug pad away from the rug for this step if you’re worried about cutting the rug.


You can keep the rug pad trimmings for future projects, but likely you’ll just want to throw them away., Start by cutting four strips, one for each side of the rug, sizing them so there’s about an inch or two (2.5 - 5 cm) of clearance on each side. Stick on the strips of tape.


While sticking tape on the perimeter of the rug is sufficient, you can cut a few extra strips for the center of the rug if you want a better grip on the rug pad., Carpet tape typically has a plastic backing covering one of its sides; this prevents it from sticking to your hands as you apply it and makes sure it’ll stay sticky when it needs to be. Just peel off this plastic covering when you’re ready to stick the rug pad on., Lay the rug pad on top of the rug, making sure to center it. Apply pressure where the rug pad meets the carpet tape in order to make it stick. You may have to make a few passes to get proper grip., Place the rug where you intend to leave it. Using your foot, apply pressure on the rug, trying to nudge it forward, backward and side to side. If you’ve applied the rug pad properly, the rug should stay in place.


If the rug still moves, you may need to reapply the rug pad. It’s also possible you need a rug pad of a different material, depending on your floors finish. Ask a home improvement professional for guidance.