 The tube needs to be big enough to fit into the tail end of the balloon with a little stretch. Look something that is about 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) long and ¾-inch (1.91 centimeters) wide., If your carton has a handle attached, you want to cut out the side with the handle. Leave the top and bottom of the carton intact.Save the panel that you cut out for later.
You can also use a plastic juice carton instead.
If the carton is dirty, take a moment to clean it.
 Place the plastic tube against the bottom of your carton. Make sure that it is centered, then trace around the plastic tube using a pen, the set the tube aside. Cut the hole out just inside the outline using a craft blade., Place the tube, along with the balloon, into the carton. Push the end of the tube out through the hole you just cut out. The balloon should be on the inside of the carton., Push the tube downward as far as it can go without actually bending anything. Draw a ring of hot glue around the seams both on the inside and outside of the boat. This will also help create an airtight seal and prevent any water from getting into the boat., Straighten out a paper clip, but leave one of the ends bent at a 90-degree angle. Duct tape the paper clip to the bottom of your boat, just below the plastic tube. Make sure that the bent part is flat against the bottom of your carton.You will attach the rudder to this, which will help make you boat go straight., Cut a 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) square out of the plastic panel you cut out earlier. Place it against the paper clip, just below the bottom edge of the carton. Make sure that it is perpendicular to the bottom of the carton, then wrap a piece of duct tape around the paper clip and the plastic square.If there is ay paper clip sticking out from under the rudder, you can cut it off with a pair of wire cutters. You can also fold it up against the rudder instead. 


, Hold the balloon's tail firmly against the plastic tube. Blow into it, then place your finger against the end of the tube., You can use anything for your body of water, as long as it is big enough for your boat. Bath tubs and swimming pools make great choices. Set your boat down onto the water, then let go of it, both hands at the same time. Watch it go!