 After having a fight with a friend, you may be feeling upset, mad or hurt. Focus on these feelings and think about what happened to produce them. Though the argument may have been major, your friendship should not be characterized by one bad day. Think about the argument in the grand scheme of things.


Write out your thoughts. Often times, your emotions can be chaotic after a fight. Take some time to jot down how you feel and the things you regret.;
, Though the argument may not have been your fault exclusively, if you want to reconnect with your friend, you’ll need to step up and be the bigger person and apologize. You must think of the ways in which you are at fault and be prepared to acknowledge and apologize for them when it comes time to talk to your friend.


You might say something like “I am so sorry for saying those hurtful things that I said to you and I know that that behavior is unacceptable. I don’t want to speak to my friends in that way, especially not my best friend. I hope you will forgive me.”
Your friend will likely feel very moved by your apology and may apologize as well. Be sure to think of the ways that they hurt you as well so that you can articulate that when the time comes.
 After having thought about the fight in depth, it is now time to reach out to your friend. If you have their number, text or call them. You can also reach out to them on social media as well or via mutual friends if necessary.


You may want to send a text that reads something like “I know the last time we talked ended on bad terms. I have thought a lot about the fight and what I did and said and I want to tell you that I’m sorry. I miss you and I’d like to sit down and talk sometime soon if you have time.”
If your friend does not want to meet you, consider writing them a letter apologizing since you cannot offer your apology in person. This way, you will at least know that your friend knows you’re sorry and want to move forward, whether the feelings are reciprocated or not.
 If they respond positively to you, now is the time to set up a meeting. Coordinate with your friend to find a time that works for both of your schedules. It can also be helpful to make sure that you don’t have much else to do on the day that you two meet, as your conversation may take a while.


You might say something like “Hey, wanna go somewhere to talk for a bit? We could meet for lunch or go take a walk.”
Meet in a neutral, quiet place. A park or a coffee shop are great places to meet that are relaxed and chill. This will set the mood for a less tense conversation.
 If your best friend knows you, and they likely do, they will know if you are being genuine or not. When offering your apology,


Apologize for exactly what you are sorry for.Reassure them that you will avoid making mistakes like that in the future.
Admit responsibility for your part in the fight.
Don’t make excuses for your behavior.
Give up the need to be right., Though you have thought about the argument and your role in it, you still may not be fully aware of why they are upset. Take some time during this conversation to listen to the ways that you have hurt them. This last incident could just have been the last straw for them, but there could have been other times that you were rude to them that you haven’t considered.


Apologize for the ways you have hurt them apart from this latest issue. Think critically about what they are saying to you so that you don’t apologize just to end the conversation. Make sure that any “I’m sorry” you offer is genuine.
 After you have apologized, and perhaps received an apology as well, express to them how much you miss their friendship and want it back. This is a great way to end the conversation on a positive note and to express your wishes.


You can say something like “I’m so sorry, again, for hurting you, but I don’t want this to end our friendship. Will you be my best friend again?”
Don’t present this as an ultimatum and don’t make them decide in the moment unless they want to.
 After this heavy conversation, your friend will likely need some time to think, and that is okay. End the conversation with a hug if they are willing and tell them to reach out to you when and if they feel that they are ready.


You can tell them “I know this might be a lot to take in in one day and that the feelings from our argument are still fresh, so please take some time to think and I’ll be here when you’re ready to talk.”

