 If the body is overly stressed, like when it is in pain, it will respond to pain more acutely. However, if your body is relaxed, the pain tolerance is higher and you won’t feel as much pain. This is why women who are in labor or people who suffer from chronic pain can benefit from relaxed breathing exercises.For example, you can sit in a straight backed chair and close your eyes. Inhale for five seconds. Hold the breath for a few seconds, and then breathe out for seven or out seconds. Repeat this 10 times.
You can try extending the breathing exercises for 15 to 20 minutes. Sit in your chair and close your eyes. Focus on your heartbeat and use it to determine the length of your breaths. Inhale as you count five heartbeats, then hold for seven or eight heartbeats. Then, exhale for nine to ten heartbeats.;
, Guided imagery is used with chronic pain sufferers to help increase their pain tolerance and lower the pain they feel. Guided imagery helps replace the image in your mind that pain is negative and unbearable with something more positive.Start by breathing deeply. Focus on the present, just on the breaths as you inhale and exhale. Let everything go as your relax. Exhale all your worries as you inhale cleansing, restorative oxygen. Breathe until you feel in a complete state of relaxation.
Scan your body for parts that have pain. Inhale, and when you exhale, blow the pain away and breathe in again to replace it with healing air.
After you have done that, think of a beautiful, peaceful place. Focus on that place with your five senses. What do you see, hear, feel, taste, and smell? Continue to be present in this place.
 Meditation can help reduce your body’s response to pain and raise your tolerance. Relaxing your body, calming your mind, and focusing your attention away from the pain may be able to help you raise your pain threshold.Try closing your eyes while sitting straight. Breathe in and out, focusing on your breath. Look at your thoughts and your bodily sensations in a neutral, non-judgmental way. As you inhale, focus on the sensation of each breath. Stay in the moment and only focus on what is going on right that second.
Scan your body, focusing on each part of your body. Start at your toes and go up through your body. Mentally note any places that feel pain. Concentrate on the idea that pain is a bunch of sensations, not a tangible thing. Focus on the pain and become more aware of the pain.
After focusing on the pain, expand your mind to meditate on positive things around you. This could be pleasant weather or sounds, being near people you love, smelling pleasant aromas, or anything else. Be mindful that pain is only one thing among many that is going on at any given moment. Respond positively to the pain, accepting that it is there instead of resisting it or obsessing over it.