 This may sound intuitive, but since an abstract is meant to describe the thesis, results, and methods of an article, you should complete the article first.This is especially important since the scope of your research or your thesis may have changed while you were writing the article.


To determine which information is valuable enough to be included in your abstract, read through your paper and list or highlight the details crucial to your project. Then, condense those points to make your abstract.;
, Since the introductory section already provides a condensed overview and summary, you can repeat many of these points in the abstract.


Remind yourself as you scan through your introduction that the goal is to reproduce in the abstract the main points you want to convey to readers., Since you will be very familiar with the subject matter and content of your paper or journal article, it can help to approach it from the perspective of someone unfamiliar with the work. Ask yourself what’s most important for your readers to know about your work, and add that to the abstract.


Focus on the opening portions that provide background information in addition to purpose and scope. Move on to the sections of your article that discuss the research methods, recommendations and the conclusion. Target and highlight only the most relevant data and leave out superfluous information.
 In an academic abstract, you won’t have any space to waste. Most abstracts are similarly structured; they begin by (1) introducing the topic, then move on to (2) indicate a gap in the current literature, and (3) state their methods, (4) mention the study results, and (5) offer a brief conclusion. To expand on this structure:The introduction to your paper topic should establish the topic. This should be no more than two sentences.
In order to show that your paper is helpful and relevant, point out a problem that the existing body of literature in your field does not address. Think of this as stating the “problem” your paper will solve. Try to keep this to one or two sentences.
Briefly address your study methods and the results of your inquiry. Explain how and where you conducted your study. This is generally done in no more than three sentences.
The conclusion should concisely recap your results (or thesis, if you’re writing in the humanities). This should be one sentence.
 At this point, you will use the information from those sections of the article that you highlighted earlier. Maintain the focus and intent of your journal article content while you are writing your scholarly abstract rough draft. The goal is to present a brief overview of your essential points to the reader through the necessary sections: introduction, problem statement, methods, results, and conclusion.


Use strong, clear, wording in the scholarly abstract. Keep the focus short and simple while maintaining appropriate, correct tone, and avoiding ambiguity.
Use the proper style for the discipline you’re writing in: APA, MLA, and Chicago are the most common.
 An abstract should never be a long document; many conferences and journals limit abstracts to 200 or 250 words. Your abstract should be concise and to the point. You need to engage your reader by describing what your article or conference paper is about.Don’t take the time to summarize your entire article or conference paper. Rather, set out your main argument, and the one or two most important findings from your research.
 In addition to taking up valuable space in your abstract, jargon or meaningless filler will confuse or frustrate your readers. Focusing on presenting a clear summary of your article’s arguments and thesis, not filling space with long-winded phrases.Avoid long-winded sentences like, “This article sets out to prove that the previous research on the behavior of nocturnal owls is inadequate to explain their predation behavior.” Instead, try, “Previous research on nocturnal owls inadequately explains their predation behavior.”
Write in the present tense (“My research shows…”) rather than future tense (“My research is going to show…”).
Make your language as concise as possible. Write in the active voice (not the passive voice), cut out adjectives and adverbs whenever possible, and don’t include verbiage that merely takes up space.
 If your research article or conference paper uses descriptive, technical language, use the same terminology in your abstract.Although it can be tempting, do not “water down” the technicality of your academic writing for the Abstract.


Do not copy any phrases or content directly from the journal article. Concisely rephrase the information.
 Depending on the journal or conference you’re sending the abstract to, they may request that you include keywords as a separate list or written into the abstract paragraphs.“Keywords” are a set of 4–6 words that capture your paper’s specific niche in the academic literature.


For example, if you’re writing about a study tracking owls at night, keywords could include “nocturnal,” “predatory,” and “flight pattern.”
The vocabulary and terminology used in the Abstract should prepare readers for the topic and language of your full-length paper.
The keywords will allow your abstract to be easily searched, when and if it’s entered into a database (this will happen if your paper is published).
 Since your abstract is short and will be the initial encounter that journal editors or conference-panel chairs have with your work, it’s important that you proofread as you work toward an edited, finalized copy.


Scan your abstract for proper grammar and style as well as typos, correct spacing, and punctuation.
Type a finished final draft of your scholarly abstract.
 Find abstracts in earlier copies of the academic journal you’re planning to submit to, and compare them to yours. Your abstract should resemble others found in previous editions of the journal, or found in Proceedings from earlier conferences.


If you’ll be presenting your paper at an academic conference, the abstract will likely be the only part published in the official conference Proceedings.It’s important that the abstract reflect your best writing, and also serve as “marketing” to draw interested readers to your panel.
 This should be the final step before you send your abstract to a journal or conference panel. Seeking feedback from a colleague can lead to constructive criticism to strengthen your writing. A colleague can also point out grammatical errors or typos you may have overlooked.It can be especially helpful to have your abstract read by a colleague in a different field. He or she will be less familiar with your specific discipline, and can tell you if your writing or conclusions are jargon-filled or unclear.

