 Turn on your oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Take out a 12 cup muffin tin and place muffin liners in each hole. If you don't have muffin liners, grease and flour the holes or spray them with cooking spray.



 


To make the cupcakes come out even easier, consider spraying the muffin liners with cooking spray. This can also help them brown more evenly during baking.;
, Place all of the dry ingredients into a medium bowl and whisk them for about 30 seconds. This will break up any lumps, aerate the flour and distribute the leavening. To make 12 eggless vanilla cupcakes, you'll need these dry ingredients:


1 1/2 cups (180 g) of cake flour
1/2 teaspoons of baking soda
2 teaspoons of baking powder
1 pinch of salt

, In a separate medium-sized mixing bowl, cream the 1/2 cup (115 g) of butter with the 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar. Beat them for a few minutes until the mixture is light and fluffy. Take a rubber spatula and fold in 1 1/4 cup (236 g) of unsweetened applesauce.Avoid stirring the applesauce in too much or the butter and sugar mixture will become dense. Simply folding in the applesauce, using a twisting motion with your wrist, will make light and fluffy cupcakes.
 Stir 1/2 cup (120 ml) of milk into the wet ingredients. Gently stir in the milk so it's combined with your butter, sugar and applesauce. The mixture will look very runny and wet. There shouldn't be any lumps.You can use any type of milk. Keep in mind that the higher milkfat milks will make richer cupcakes.
 Take the bowl of dry ingredients and carefully add the dry ingredients to your bowl of wet ingredients. Stir the dry ingredients in using a rubber spatula. Stir until the ingredients are completely combined.The cupcake batter will still be slightly runny and smooth.
 Use a measuring scoop, spoons, or a cookie scoop to fill your muffin liners or greased muffin holes with the cupcake batter. Fill each muffin hole or liner two-thirds full with the cupcake batter.Cookie scoops are easy to use when filling the liners. Depending on the size of your cookie scoop, you may need a few scoops of batter for each liner or hole.
 Place your filled muffin tin in the preheated oven and bake the cupcakes for 15 to 20 minutes. Test the cupcakes to see if they're done by inserting a cake tester or toothpick in the center of a cupcake. If it comes out clean, the cupcakes are baked. If it comes out with batter stuck to it, the cupcakes need to bake longer.Add just a few minutes baking time to your cupcakes and keep checking them for to see if they're done.
 Remove the cupcakes from the oven and let them cool in the muffin tin for a few minutes before removing them to a cooling rack. Let the cupcakes cool completely before frosting them or eating them.Store the cupcakes in an airtight container until you're ready to eat them or frost them. You can use almost any flavor of frosting to finish these eggless vanilla cupcakes.

