 Your first course of action should be to search online for some good memo templates. This will allow you to find templates for memos of virtually any kind.


Take some time to look around and see which templates you like best. You can then download the templates that best fit your needs so that you can begin creating memos that work well for you. Because there are several different templates available, you can download one for every type of memo that you may need and then you will have those to go back to from that point forward.
If you need to write a business memo template, you can look around the site and then download the correct template in order to create a business memo. You always have the opportunity to preview each template before you actually download it and if you like what you see, downloading is as simple as pressing the download button after you have previewed it and decided that you want to add it to your computer files.;
, After you have pressed the download button, the template will automatically download into your computer or may take few steps to start download. It is downloaded as a zip file, so you need to unzip the file and then open it in Microsoft Word. It is always a good idea to use the latest version of Microsoft Word in order to ensure that you will not run into any unforeseen software problems and that the template will operate as it was designed to function. If you are operating on an older version of Microsoft Word, simply update your software before downloading any templates. This should eliminate many of the traditional problems that people typically have when they download large files because it gives you all of the latest updates.
 Keep in mind that everything on the template is basically an example and you can customize every portion of it to fit your particular needs. For instance, you can add your logo and copyright sign in the header section of the template simply by clicking on that section and then typing in the information that you need to have for your own personal document. One word of caution that you should know before you get started is that it is always a good idea to read the terms of use before using any templates from Dotxes, or from any other website for that matter.
 Click on the section that says "memo" and update your template with your own title. Again, everything that is already written into the template is there in order to provide you with an example of how your template should look when you are finished. You can customize your template by clicking on the desired section and typing in your own information. It is equally important to make sure that you have also deleted the words that are there for the sake of example and carefully proofread your memo before sending it.
 Be sure to fill in the "to" and "from" fields, as well as "Cc," "subject" and all the other fields. Use caution when filling these fields to ensure that you have not skipped over any field, leaving some of them blank, or that you have not made an error in typing somewhere along the way.
 Make your memo look more professional by using bullet points or lists and ensuring that you align justify for all paragraphs. Furthermore, you should use the same font size in your message as you have used in the previous fields, with the exception of the title. Start each topic with the proper headings. This will make the memo look more professional and will also leave a better impression on the reader, not to mention making the memo read more clearly. If necessary, you can even customize the memo to use a table. This is sometimes a good idea, especially if using a bullet list or something similar makes the memo look too crowded and difficult to read.
 Make sure that you do not overlook the information that is provided in the footer. This is where you should put your company information or your personal contact information. It is vitally important that you take the time to ensure that this information is correct. The last thing you want to have happen is to write an excellent memo and then have incorrect contact information or have that information missing altogether.
 One of the most appealing things about the template is that you can even change the color of the document. This allows you to exercise a certain degree of personality and makes the entire document stand out more precisely. It also allows you to choose a color that is appropriate for the situation at hand in order to ensure that the memo is visually striking, yet professional.
 Save the template so that you can use it again and again in the future when your memo is ready. This will always give you something to fall back on and also provides proof of all documentation that you have written in the memo. Whenever you need to use it for a slightly different subject in the future, simply do the same thing as you did this time and change each field to suit the particular situation that you need to send out a new memo for. This will save you time and will also help you create a memo that is professional and that will get the attention of people so the memo will be read in a prompt manner.

