 The United States Equestrian Federation is the national governing body that regulates several equestrian disciplines for several different horse breeds. The USEF is the largest organization in equestrian sports of this kind.Register your horse in the USEF if it is one of the 11 different breeds recognized by the organization and you plan to compete in one or more of 18 different disciplines regulated by the Federation.
 You may also want to register your horse in a specific breed association, though this may not be necessary. The breeds recognized by the USEF include: Andalusian / Lusitano, Arabian / Half-Arabian / Anglo-Arabian, Connemaras, Friesian, Hackney, Morgan, National Show Horse, Paso Fino, American Saddlebred, Shetland, and Welsh., Some of the regulations maintained by the USEF are internationally sanctioned. The USEF is the organization responsible for training and otherwise comparing many equestrian competitors for Olympic equestrian events. The specific international disciplines recognized by the USEF include Combined Driving, Dressage, Endurance, Eventing, Jumping, Para-Equestrian, Reining, and Vaulting. There are also several disciplines specific to the US that the Federation regulates., Aside from access to over 2, 600 regulated competitions, membership in the USEF offers further benefits. Involvement with the organization can help you meet and network with others who share your interest in showing and competing with your horse. There are events and programs as well as other opportunities that are only accessible for members of the USEF., To join the USEF, you must make a “My USEF My Way” account on the organization’s website. Enter your basic information as prompted by the website. Your creation of an account will provide you with a USEF ID. There are several types of memberships available. The online portal will guide you to make the selection that’s best for you and your horse.Contact a USEF customer service representative for help signing up for a membership.
Use this account to register for specific events, programs, and more.

