 After launching the app, try your skill with today’s top players in the four different Grand Slam tournaments by tapping on "The Slams."

, Stick Tennis updates the tournaments based on the real-world Grand Slam schedules.


For example, during the 2014 Australian Open, a 2014 Australia tournament was added.
Every tournament has the top 16 seeds as its players for the men’s and women’s sections.
Tap on the tournament you want to play.
 Just like the real tournaments, the game is split between men’s and women’s tournaments. Tap on either Men’s or Women’s to play.
 You have the option to play as one of the top 16 seeds of the tournament you chose. Each one has a different mix of speed, accuracy, power, and style.


Scroll up and down to select your player.
Their statistics will be displayed as well as you go through each name.
Tap on "Play" to start your game.
 The game starts with the Round of 16. Beat your assigned opponent to move to the next round. All the other matches will be simulated.
 If you win in the first round, you will move to the quarter finals. Beat your opponent to move to the next round.
 If you win in the quarter finals, you will move to the semi-finals. Beat your opponent to move to the next round.
 If you win in the semi-finals, you will reach the final round. Beat your opponent to win the championship for the tournament you chose.
 After every match you win, you have the option to move immediately to the next round or to save your game for playing later. Don’t forget to tap on Save; otherwise, your game is lost once you exit the app.


You can also tap on "Forfeit" anytime to exit the game without saving.
 After you finish a tournament as one player, you can play the same tournament as another player. You have 15 other players to choose from.


You can also move from the men’s to the women’s or vice versa.
You can also play the other tournaments. There are four Grand Slams every year, where you can choose among Australia, France, England, or USA.

