 Remove any dead plants, flowers, leaves, algae, and any other debris.


Rotting foliage will produce gases in the water underneath the ice that can be fatal to fish. When removing dead vegetation, be careful not to inadvertently remove floating pond plants that will grow again next spring.;
,

Move hardy plants to deeper water, at least 18 inches (45.72 cm), but preferably deeper, to keep them from freezing. If the pond freezes entirely, remove these plants and store them indoors for the winter.






Move tropical lilies out of the pond to a place where they won't freeze, like a basement or heated garage. If the lilies are in pots without drainage holes, keep them well-watered. If they are in pots with drainage holes, repot them in pots without draining holes. Check water levels at least once each week, adding water as needed, to make sure that the lilies don't dry out.
Remove other tender plants from the pond, wrapping each plant loosely with damp newspaper. Place them in large trash bags and store them with the lilies. Check the newspaper every week or two to be sure it is still moist, but not soaking wet.



Moving the filter close to the surface of the pond so that the air bubbles breaking the surface of the water may prevent the pond from freezing completely. Alternatively, remove and store the pond filter indoors for the winter.



Once the plants that need to be moved have been, vacuum the pond to clear out dead plants and other debris in order to prevent toxic gases from being produced that can be lethal to fish.
 If your pond contains fish, reduce the amount of food you feed the fish as the temperature gets colder.

Stop feeding the fish completely when the temperature drops below 50F (10C) to keep the fish from creating more waste products that the remaining plants can process. Since the fish will be in semi-hibernation, there should be enough nutrients in the pond for them to survive the winter.



Keep the pond clean from falling leaves and branches by covering it with a screen for the winter. This will also make pond preparation in the spring much easier. Shade cloth, netting, and landscape fabric work well. Be sure to secure the screen around all edges of the pond.

