 You will need one piece of black felt that can be wrapped around a headband, two foam circles, and two pieces of black felt that look like dumbbells. For headbands that are 1/4-inch (6.35-mm) wide, cut out a strip of black felt at least 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) wide. The length should be about 2 inches (5 cm) longer than the length of the headband, which can be measured using a tape measure.






The foam circles should be 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) in diameter. Trace the circle out using a compass, cookie cutter, or other round stencil. Use thick craft foam, and double the foam if you need to create something sturdier.






The black felt dumbbells need to have circles that are 2 inches (5 cm) longer in diameter than the foam circles. In between the circles should be a connecting rectangle about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long, or four times as long as the thickness of the headband.





;
, Use hot glue to attach the felt to the headband as you work, starting from the inside and working your way around.


Place a thin line of hot glue along the inside of the headband. Press your felt onto this glue line, leaving roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) of felt hanging off the end of the headband. Attach the felt at the edge, rather than at the middle.
You may need to apply the glue in 2-inch (5-cm) lines to prevent it from cooling off before you reach the end.
Once one end of the felt is in place, draw a line of hot glue over the inside of the headband, on top of the attached felt. Wrap the remaining felt around the top of the headband and back down. Press the other edge into the new line of glue.
Put a dot of hot glue on the inside of the headband at both ends. Pinch and fold the hanging felt into the dot of glue to close them.
If the felt still wants to open at the end, apply a small dot of hot glue to the inside of the opening and pinch closed.
 Position the foam circle near the center of the circular portion of the dumbbell. Secure it in place with a drizzle of hot glue.


Repeat this step with the other foam circle and the other felt dumbbell.
The foam circle should not extend down into the rectangular portion of the felt dumbbell. It should ideally be located in the center of the circular portion, but if necessary, you can push it a little out from the center and toward the end to keep it from hanging over into the rectangular portion.
 Hold the ears behind the headband with the foam-side facing up. Adjust the distance between the ears until you are satisfied with the appearance.


Usually, the ears should be spaced about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) apart from one another. The ears should also be an equal distance apart from the center.
 Put a small line of hot glue underneath the headband at the spot where the felt meets the headband. Press the headband into the glue to secure it in place.
 Apply a thin drizzle of glue over the foam circle, around the edges of the felt circle, and over the connecting rectangle. Fold the top half of the ear over the headband and onto the bottom half, covering the foam circle completely.


Press the edges firmly to seal them.
If the edges are uneven, you can trim them carefully with a pair of scissors.
 One ribbon should be 1.5-inch (3.8-cm) wide and the other should be 3/8-inch (1 cm) wide. The wider ribbon needs to be 9 inches (23 cm) long and the thinner ribbon should be 2.25 inches (6.35 cm) long.


For a classic Minnie Mouse look, use a red-and-white polka dot ribbon for the larger piece and a plain red ribbon for smaller piece.
Other looks that Minnie has sported include pink-and-white polka dot bows and plain pink bows. Choose the ribbon color and pattern that will best match the rest of your Minnie Mouse costume.
 Fold the ends of the wider ribbon over each other so that they overlap, creating a loop. Glue the ends in place with a small dot of hot glue.


Make sure that the polka dot side faces out.
 Fold the loop in half, flattening it. Hold the loop so that the sides of the ribbon are between your thumb and forefinger and press down in the middle.


If desired, you could add a dot of glue to the inside middle of the loop before folding it in half. Do not glue across the entire inside, however.
You can also secure the bow in place by applying a small dot of hot glue to the outside center of the bow when you pinch it into shape.
 Wrap the smaller strip of ribbon around the bow and the headband to hold the bow in place.

Glue the end of the smaller ribbon to the inside of the headband. It should be position in the exact center of the headband, in between the two ears.






Place the bow in front of the headband.






Wrap the smaller ribbon around the top of the headband and over the bow. Glue the loose end down, placing a dot of glue on the original attached end on the inside of the headband.
 The iconic Minnie Mouse dress is covered in a red-and-white polka dot pattern. The dress should have a circle skirt or other full skirt that extends down to the knee. It also has puffy short sleeves.If you cannot find a dress that matches this description and are unable to sew one yourself, improvise. The key features are the red polka dots and the full skirt. Any red polka dot dress with a fairly conservative neckline and hemline will do the trick. You can even use separates, if necessary, as long as either the blouse or skirt has red polka dots.
If you are unsatisfied with the amount of fullness offered by your skirt, you might be able to wear a tulle petticoat beneath it to add volume. This only works if the skirt flairs out, rather than clinging to your figure.
You could try mimicking one of Minnie's other looks if red polka dots aren't your thing. Minnie Mouse has been known to wear pink-and-white polka dots and yellow-and-white polka dots. She's also worn a solid blue dress with a pink bow.



If the weather is too warm for tights, you can also keep your legs bare.
Similarly, if the weather is extremely cold, you can slip a long-sleeve black shirt on beneath your dress.
 Minnie Mouse traditionally wears yellow heels with her red polka dot dress. Look for a short heel that has a closed toe.


With any other outfit, Minnie usually wears pink heels instead of yellow ones.
If you cannot find yellow or pink heels, you can wear solid black or white ones, instead.
If heels do not suit you, swap them for cute, Girly flats, instead.
 The gloves should be wrist-length.
 Use black face paint or a black eyebrow pencil to color the tip of your nose black.


Do not color the bridge of your nose. You only need to color in the tip of your nose to mimic Minnie.
Whiskers are not necessary. Most pictures of Minnie Mouse do not show whiskers, so you do not need to make them part of your costume, either.
 Minnie Mouse has long eyelashes, so you should bring attention to your eyelashes by using black mascara or an eyelash curler.


Alternatively, you could use fake eyelashes if your own eyelashes are too thin.
If you want to draw further attention to your eyes, apply a light coating of gray eyeshadow over the lid and trace your upper lid with black eyeliner. While defining your eyes is a good idea for this look, less make-up is actually more suitable for the costume than more.
 Apply a pink or red lip gloss to your lips. Choose whichever color best matches with your dress and bow.


As with eye make-up, less is more. Lip glosses tend to look more accurate than lipsticks since lipsticks can be somewhat heavy.

