 If you are in a relationship with a narcissist, it is important not to beat yourself for the challenges that you face in your relationship. Your partner is dealing with a mental disorder that you have no control over. What you do have control over is who you are in a relationship with, and your expectations for how you should be treated.


Do not dwell on how things have changed, or think that the changes have been brought on by something you have done.
Any abuse you have received is because of your partner’s narcissistic personality, not because you deserved the abuse.
 While you may have fallen in love with your partner, it is important to remind yourself that your partner has changed. Do not feel guilty when considering whether you want to leave your partner or not. Remind yourself that you deserve to be with someone who treats you with respect and love. If you are not getting that out of your current relationship, it may be time to consider leaving your partner. Leaving your partner is not a selfish act; it is an act of self preservation that should be done out of respect for yourself.


When a person develops a narcissistic personality disorder, it is very hard to make him or her see any other point of view. Asking that person to change will most likely not result in any transformations of character.
 Extracting yourself from an unhealthy relationship can be very hard and emotionally draining. Despite this, removing yourself from an abusive relationship will be less painful in the long run. Getting over someone you loved is always hard, regardless of what the relationship was like. Remind yourself that it is ok to feel sad, mad, or any other emotion you are experiencing.


Do not try to keep the pain you feel inside of you. Bottling up your emotions can make you feel even worse. Instead, share your feelings and thoughts with someone you love and trust. If you do not want to talk about your relationship with people involved in your life, consider setting up an appointment with a therapist.
Remind yourself that you are a wonderful person who deserves to be loved. Love yourself by setting aside a part of each day for ‘me-time’. Do things that you love, spend time with friends, or try something you have always wanted to but couldn’t with your partner.

