 Choose a character from a fairy tale, children's book, or cartoon. You could also choose baby animals, flowers, butterflies, or another fun, light-hearted theme. Find a party store in your area or search discount stores or the internet for plates, tablecloths, napkins, banners, balloons, favors and so on to match your theme or colors. Decorative plates and napkins look so cute on the refreshment table.









Matching the theme to the baby's nursery is a special idea that the mother-to-be will enjoy.
If the sex of the baby is unknown, you could do a simple pink and blue theme.
 Streamers and helium balloons around the room and on the gift and refreshment tables are very festive and inexpensive to put up yourself. Baby playthings such as rubber duckies, stuffed animals, or blocks make great decorative accents to place around the room. Welcome guests and the mother-to-be to the shower in a special way with a baby shower banner and balloons at the shower entrance. If you have a Publisher program on your computer you may be able to make a banner yourself.









Dollar stores are excellent places to pick up inexpensive items.
You may also want to look into renting a lawn stork with a sign announcing the anticipated arrival of the baby.
Another idea is to place a framed photo of the parents-to-be on the gift table for a personal touch.
Be sure to provide the mother-to-be with her own special chair next to the gifts and mark it by tying a unique balloon to it (or a sash announcing her Soon To Be status...she could even wear this while opening gifts!).
 Start with an inexpensive basket in natural, white, or another color that matches the shower colors. Place a stuffed animal, doll or other item that coordinates with the shower theme into the basket and then place a baby bottle or rattle in front of the animal or doll. Attach a decorative bow to the the basket handle and tie 4-5 pastel helium balloons to the top of the basket handle. Place the decorated centerpiece in the middle of the refreshment or punch table and sprinkle around some baby shower confetti.









As a special gift, give the decorative centerpiece to the mother to be as a memento of her baby shower or to display in the baby's nursery.

Diaper Cakes also make very cute and functional centerpieces and double as a baby gift. You can make one yourself or find a diaper cake company that will create one that matches your shower theme.
A simple fresh floral arrangement featuring the shower colors makes an elegant and appropriate centerpiece as well.

