 Plaque requires carbohydrates to form, so to prevent the buildup of plaque, nothing beats saying "no" to food products that contain sugar or starch. If you're serious about preventing plaque from forming, try to limit the following items, especially later in the day when you're about to go to bed:Sweets – If you do eat them, go for ones that clear your mouth quickly like cookies, chocolate, or ice cream. The worst sweets are those that stay in your mouth for a long time, like lollipops, caramels, or cough drops that contain sugar.
Carbonated soft drinks – They are the leading cause of tooth decay because they contain lots of sugar, plus phosphoric and citric acids, which wear away tooth enamel. If you do drink soft drinks, using a straw positioned towards the back of the mouth can reduce their impact.Starchy foods that get stuck in your mouth – Starches that get trapped between your teeth, such as soft bread, potato chips, or dried fruit, allow much more time for plaque build up than starches that pass quickly through the mouth, like baked potatoes.
If you do eat any of the above, try to do so with a meal, as the saliva production from eating will help combat plaque formation., Saliva helps prevent plaque, so you don’t want a dry mouth, which can be caused by alcohol or medicines. If medicine is causing your dry mouth, talk to your dentist about getting fluoride rinse to protect your teeth.Many antihypertensive, antidepressant, and antihistamine medications can cause or worsen dry mouth.If you take any medication and experience dry mouth, pay special attention to caring for your teeth.
 You can clean plaque off of your teeth throughout the day without ever pulling out a toothbrush. Crunchy fruits and vegetables like carrots, apples, and pears gently scrape the plaque from your teeth as you eat and also stimulate saliva which reduces the impact of plaque producing bacteria.If you feel a film on your teeth and you don't have a toothbrush handy, try taking a big bite out of an apple with the skin on for instant results.
 Saliva acts as a natural cleanser for your teeth, washing away the plaque. Choose foods that make you salivate as a way to keep plaque away during the day.


Dairy products such as milk and cheese are great for stimulating the production of saliva; plus, they contain calcium and other minerals that help to strengthen your teeth.Sugarless chewing gum is another great saliva producer, which also removes food particles from your mouth. The optimal time to chew is 1 minute, after which bacteria begin to be released back into the mouth from the gum., Both kinds contain polyphenols – compounds that inhibit or kill the bacteria that produce plaque. Brewing your tea in tap water rich with fluoride will further protect your teeth., Drinking water will keep you hydrated so you produce plenty of saliva, as well as helping to clean out your mouth. When your teeth are feeling less-than-clean, try swishing water around your mouth, spitting it out, then taking a long drink. Most tap water also contains fluoride, which will help to protect your teeth from plaque.
 Smoking does not directly contribute to plaque, but it does heighten the negative impact of any plaque you develop.Studies show that smoking increases the risk of tooth lossand periodontal disease.Chewing tobacco has similar effects due to its nicotine content, as well as directly yellowing teeth.

