 MBD can result in weakened or broken bones. Tell your vet if your bird fell off their perch or has been showing evidence of a fracture. After an x-ray confirms a fracture, your vet will give your bird a splint. Follow your vet's instructions about changing the bandages, cleaning the wound (if necessary), and providing pain relief., Your vet will start your bird on a regimen of 100 mg/kg of calcium gluconate. Follow your vet's instructions regarding continued supplementation. When your bird comes home, feed them foods like broccoli, kale, turnip greens, and collard greens., Vitamin D3 helps birds' bodies absorb calcium much better than Vitamin D2. African Greys don't absorb Vitamin D very well from food sources. Therefore, your vet will likely prescribe liquid vitamins like Avitron or powdered supplements like Superpreen, which are easier to absorb. Follow your vet's dosage instructions.Too much Vitamin D3 can cause too much calcium to build up in vital organs like the kidneys. Stick to the dosage your vet prescribes., UV light helps African Greys produce their own Vitamin D. Whenever possible, place your bird's cage in natural sunlight. This can be in an open window or outdoors away from possible predators. When natural sunlight isn't possible, shine an ultraviolet bulb into the cage. You can buy it at your local pet store., Too much fat binds calcium in your bird's digestive tract and prevents it from being absorbed into the body. Cut back on Brazil nuts and sunflower seeds, making them only an occasional treat. Eliminate commercial seed mixtures, which lack essential nutrients., Your vet might prescribe magnesium if your bird is having seizures. Magnesium might also help raise calcium levels in your bird's blood plasma. Follow their instructions in terms of the dosage and how long you'll need to supplement., Adult birds who developed MBD after birth respond to treatment better than juvenile birds who were born with the condition. Don't be disappointed if a bird born with MBD develops stunted legs or wings even with proper nutrition. The key thing is to get your bird diagnosed and begin treatment immediately to prevent further damage from developing.