 Autoclaves use high temperature steam omitted at a high pressure over a certain period of time to sterilize medical objects. This works by killing the microorganisms through time, heat, steam, and pressure. There are different settings on an autoclave machine that work for different things. Since you have bags of instruments, you should use the fast exhaust and dry cycle. This works best for wrapped items like instruments. Autoclaving fast exhaust will also sterilize glassware. , You need to place your instrument bags onto the trays that go into the autoclave machine. You should stack them in a single row. They should not be on top of one another. The steam needs to get to each instrument in each bag. You need to make sure that all instruments remain apart during the sterilization cycle. Leave space between them to allow steam to circulate., Set the trays about 1-inch apart in the machine to permit steam circulation. Don't overload the sterilizer trays. Overloading will cause inadequate sterilization and drying. You should also make sure the instruments don't shift and overlap when you set them inside the machine. Place any empty canisters upside-down to prevent accumulation of water., The autoclave machine should run for a certain period of time at a specific temperature and pressure. Wrapped instruments should be in the autoclave at 250 degrees for 30 minutes at 15 PSI or 273 degrees for 15 minutes at 30 PSI. Once the machines has run, you need to open the door a small bit to let the steam out. Then, run the drying cycle on the autoclave until the instruments are dry.


Drying should take about 30 additional minutes., After they are finished drying, take the trays of pouches out of the autoclave with sterile tongs. You now need to check the indicator tape on the pouches. If the tape turned the color according to the manufacturer's instructions, it's been exposed to 250 degree or higher heat and considered decontaminated. If the tape does not turn a different color or you see wet spots inside the pouch, then the process of autoclaving needs to be redone.If they are fine, place them aside to cool to room temperature. Once they are cooled, store them in the pouches in a warm, dry closed cabinet until they are needed. They will remain sterile as long as the pouches are dry and closed., Keep a record in a log sheet, using information such as the initials of operator, date the instruments were sterilized, the length of the cycle, the max temperature of the autoclave, and the results. For example, note if the indicator strip turned color or if you ran a biological control. Make sure you follow your company's protocol and keep records for as long as you are required.
 A biologic control run is essential to determine if the sterility process is adequate. Place a test vial of the bacteria Bacillus stearothermophilus in the center of a pouch or on a tray in the autoclave. Next, perform a normal operation. This will test to see if the machine can get rid of the Bacillus stearothermophilus in the autoclave., Keep the vial at 130-140 degrees for 24-48 hours, depending on manufacturer protocols. Compare this vial to another control vial at room temperature that was not autoclaved. The product inside the non-autoclaved vial should turn yellow to show growth. If not, there may be a problem with the sample vials. If that is the case, repeat the testing. If it still doesn't change color, it may be a bad batch of vials and you may need a whole new set.


If there is no growth on the autoclaved vial after 72 hours, then sterilization is complete. If you see yellow on the test vial, sterilization has failed. Contact the manufacturer if failure happens and do not continue to use the autoclave.This test should be run every 40 hours of use or once a month, which ever one is sooner.
The spore test should be placed in an area that is the most difficult for the steam to reach. Be aware testing standards may vary.