 After following the first aid steps mentioned above and getting your child to the doctor, doctor will gather quick information on your child’s condition, time of exposure to the frozen conditions and what steps you had applied with him.


hen vital signs evaluation that is critical to detect any life threatening condition and control it at the moment, checking his body’s temperature, blood pressure, pulse, heart and respiratory rate are all very important in evaluating your child’s medical state.
These data would provide the doctor with a conclusion about the frostbite degree whether being superficial or deep.
 Good responding signs like pink skin color after re warming, regaining back sensation gradually, a degree of skin elasticity with a finger pressing test, even blisters formation containing clear fluid are all indicating a superficial frostbite that reflects good skin response for healing.


This may require child hospitalization for a few hours for observation, then frequent follow up with his doctor after few weeks to check for his affected skin condition, and detecting any possible damage that may appear in a while.
Parents can return to their doctor if they noticed another swelling of the affected skin, increasing the redness color of it, new blisters formation, pus or thick fluid oozing or if their child had a fever, these signs may be indicating bacterial skin formation, or reflecting the signs of a deeper frostbite damage that is revealed after a while,

, On the other hand; hard skin that leaves no marks after finger pressing test, or blisters with dark fluid may indicate deeper frostbite damage that may require additional medical care. For such severe cases; traditional re warmth home methods may not be sufficient for deeper tissue damage that may require another method made at the hospital.


This is done by applying a circulated water bath containing warm water with a degree of 104 – 107 F that equals 40 – 42 C that can be supplied continuously till achieving complete re warming, this procedure can take about fifteen to thirty minutes according to each child condition.
For deeper frostbite; re warmth procedure would be much painful than with superficial frostbite that may need the prescription of a painkiller as Brufen (Ibuprofen) which is a non steroidal anti inflammatory drug (NSAID) that has an analgesic and anti inflammatory properties too.
 NSAIDs’ anti inflammatory properties come from their ability to block the two enzymes COX – I and COX – II that are responsible for inflammation process initiation, this would help in decreasing much of the pain happening with the re warmth procedure that can be very severe with deeper frostbite cases.


Brufen is available in many dosage forms as 200, 400 mg tablets, syrup, effervescent sachets, or as injections available as Voltaren injections from the same NSAIDs category, young children could be prescribed with the syrup dosage form as one tablespoonful to be taken three times daily, children older in age can take the pills according to their doctor’s orders, that he can calculate the accurate dose for them depending on their age, to be taken twice or three times daily.
The injection forms are only prescribed in severe cases and to older children above the age of twelve, and again; doctor will determine the efficient dose for every child according to his age and his medical condition, all NSAIDs taken orally should be taken after meals to prevent any unwanted gastric symptoms.
 Some frostbite conditions may also require intravenous IV infusion of fluids to treat dehydration.


Rehydran solution are available for children containing all the electrolytes needed to re supply their bodies with all the lost minerals and fluids, to be administrated whenever needed under the supervision of the doctor and the whole medical team.
Rehydran sachets are also available for mild cases to be taken three times daily for dehydration treatment, containing Chloride, Citrates, Glucose, Potassium, Sodium and Zinc, these all minerals would be sufficient to improve his health condition.

