 Certain Ground Intelligence Officer (Military Occupational Specialty 0203) members of the Infantry (MOS 03XX), senior non-commissioned officers (SCNCOs), and international students can sometimes be permitted to undergo sniper training.


A lance corporal is the third enlisted rank in the Marines, equivalent to a Private First Class in the U.S. Army. You may receive promotion to Lance Corporal after one or more years of service.Applicants at the rank of Sergeant and above must have a temporary duty (TD) fitness report.
Your Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) should be Infantry if you want to become a sniper.;
, Successfully completing the tasks of a sniper, such as target identification and long-distance firing, requires you to have very good vision. To be eligible for training as a Marine sniper, you must have 20/20 vision or vision that is correctable to 20/20., A fitness test and health clearance will be required before you can begin training.
,


To receive secret clearance, you must be a U.S. citizen or naturalized citizen, work in a position that the Department of Defense determines necessitates this clearance, and undergo a background investigation.Your security clearance may also need to be periodically renewed.
, Superior conduct is expected from those hoping to begin sniper training.
 The Marines want to ensure that the investment of time and effort to train snipers is worth it, so you will need to make a long-term commitment to the service.
 If there are family or financial problems that can distract you, it may be difficult to complete the tasks required.
 These include:


Completion of Marines Corps Institute (MCI) or distance learning in the following areas: Land Navigation, Infantry Patrolling, Basic Forward Observer Procedures, and Reconnaissance
Attendance at Sniper platoon training
Completion of an infantry training cycle or deployment
Swimming certification at class 2 or higher

, After serving in a battalion-level scout-sniper platoon, you may be eligible to attend a formal Marine Scout Sniper course. If you are interested in becoming a sniper, ask your superiors about attaining battalion-level training as a first step.
 Thus, it is a good idea to train beforehand to ensure that you will be able to pass these tests. Components of these tests include:A timed three mile run
Pull-ups, untimed for men; flexed-arm hang, timed, for women
Crunches, two minutes, timed
An 880-yard sprint
An ammunition lift (30 pounds over your head, two minutes)

, These include the Scout Sniper Instruction School, Quantico, VA; the School of Infantry (SOI) East at Camp Geiger, North Carolina; the SOI West at Camp Pendleton, California; and the Marines Corps Base (MCB) in Kaneohe, Hawaii. To take one of these courses, you must volunteer and be selected by your unit, so talk to your superiors if you are interested in the opportunity. The Scout Sniper Course (SSC) is a twelve-week training program, designed to educate designated trainees in the basic techniques and equipment of Marine snipers. It is divided into three phases.
 Though classwork and practical applications, this phase will introduce students to basic tasks of snipers, including land navigation, functional fitness, marksmanship, ballistics, cold bore, and range estimation. Students will receive training in shooting at known distances using the M40 series sniper rifle and Semi-Automatic Sniper System (SASS). Practical training will cover hides and surveillance, and coursework will cover mission planning and orders writing.
 This phase equips students with knowledge and skills to engage with moving and unknown distance targets. Topics include camouflaging sniper equipment, firing positions, and methods of engaging targets at various ranges. By the end of this phase, students will demonstrate mastery of target movements at distances of 1,000 meters, and of engaging targets at unknown distances up to 800 meters.
 In this phase, students receive instructions regarding the duties of each billet within a scout sniper team, in order to equip them with the knowledge and skills necessary to plan sniper missions. The phase will end with a performance evaluation designed to test students’ abilities to plan, coordinate, and execute an assigned mission.
 Depending on your skills and your unit’s needs, you may train and/or serve as one or both.


A sniper makes precision fires on selected targets, often from long ranges. Snipers also conduct surveillance and reconnaissance.
Spotters detect, observe, and confirm sniper targets, and calculate the range and wind conditions on a given target. They also conduct surveillance and reconnaissance.
 This is a great way to enhance your skills and move your career forward. The course is divided into five blocks:


Block 1 teaches fundamental skills, offers ballistic training, and exercises live firing at 100-200 meters.
Block 2 trains snipers in the use of ballistic software, sniper equipment, engagement techniques, known distance shooting, and the practical application of equipment.
Block 3 covers sniper tactics and employment, foreign weapons, ballistic testing, glass shooting, unknown distance shooting (day and night) with various rifles, and the shooting of moving targets.
Block 4 provides qualification through a composite score based on four drills including barricade shooting, day and night shooting at an unknown distance, and spotter qualification.
Block 5 covers aerial sniping, explosive loophole breaching, loophole shooting, side-prone shooting, high-angle shooting, urban hides, vehicle hides, and the practical application of surveillance equipment. Block 5 also entails a culminating exercise of a four-day scenario in which sniper teams locate targets, conduct surveillance, and eliminate targets as part of a Marine Special Operations Team.

