 Are you concerned about legitimately bothering people (e.g. disrupting people's concentration during an exam) or just afraid of looking weird? Be honest with yourself. ;
, Ask yourself what is the worst thing that could happen. For example...


At an exam, you could disrupt other students' concentration and make it even more stressful for them.
At a supermarket, someone could stare at you.
At a family gathering, your crotchety old grandpa could scowl disapprovingly and imply that your father failed to parent you correctly.
 For example, you might decide to take one for the team at the family reunion, but that you don't care if random strangers publicly display their bad manners in the supermarket.


Some autistic people script their responses to rude people in advance. For example, it may help to decide that "What's wrong with you?" merits a "What's wrong with your manners?", and that if someone stares at you flapping, you shall flap even more vigorously and stare right back.
Many autistic people find that they feel better not censoring themselves.It is okay to stim discreetly in public too. You may feel too tired to handle judgmental looks from strangers, or need all your energy to handle the sensory stimuli of crowds. Do what feels best for you.
 Stimming is a natural and healthy behavior that allows you to function.Nobody deserves to be shamed for putting forth their best effort to interact with the world., See if you could temporarily withdraw from the situation to stim and rebalance yourself. For example, at a party, you could take a long bathroom break to stim and relax, or offer to drive and pick up the pizza halfway through so you can be alone in the car.


If everyone present knows you have special needs, you may be able to retreat to a calming down corner or quiet space without anyone thinking this unusual.
 Explain to your professor that you are disabled, or tell your relatives that you'll need some time in your calming down corner. This makes your behavior seem less alarming when they see it happen.


Example script: "Hi, I just wanted to let you know that I have special needs, and this party is going to be a little challenging for me. I may need to take breaks from socializing, and possibly leave early. If you see me acting a little strange or avoiding people, please know that everything's okay and I'll re-engage as soon as I feel well enough."
People like to feel helpful. Often they're accommodating once they know what's going on.
 You may be able to remove the source of your worries from the picture.


Go shopping early in the morning or late at night to avoid crowds. You'll have less stimuli and lower chances of meeting a judgmental stranger.
Spend most of your family reunion time entertaining the children, far away from your grumpy grandpa.
Disabled students can ask to take exams in a separate, quiet room. Then you can flap your arms to your heart's content without fear of disturbing people.
 Avoiding conspicuous stims can take a lot of energy sometimes, especially if you're the type who needs to stim often. If so, it may be easier to fix the situation instead.


Decide not to attend the family reunion. (You can develop a "fever" for this purpose.) This will allow you to be yourself without giving fuel to your grandpa's rants or experiencing the stress of wondering when he'll complain. If you are under 18, ask your parents' permission first.
 If you're a fidgeter, getting enough physical activity will reduce the need to stim when you're in social situations. It will also help you feel calm and energized.


Run around the block
Jump (possibly on a trampoline)
Dance to your favorite music
Climb trees and other objects
Swing

, Browse the internet with a weighted blanket on your legs, enjoy a long bear hug with a loved one, or offer to exchange back rubs with your sister. In a pinch, pile heavy things upon yourself, or pull your clothing tightly over your body. Deep pressure will help you feel more relaxed before the big event.
 Avoid overtaxing yourself. If you're feeling distressed, you'll need to stim more to calm down. It's best to do something fun, like indulging in a special interest or reading a good book, for an hour before the big event. Afterwards, you'll probably feel tired, so don't overestimate your capacity to handle things then either.
 Read lists of stims,find what sounds useful, and practice using the stim to see if it works. That way, you won't suddenly discover that the replacement stim you chose is ineffective, and then be left wondering what to do.


The autistic community offers plenty of advice on stimming.
It helps to think of several alternative stims, in case you don't feel like one of them would help you after all. That way, you'll have several backups ready to go.
 Handheld fidget toys could involve...


Tangles
"Sea urchin" toys to rub against fingers
Slinkies
Bracelets (large, round beads with smaller beads as spacers work best)
Putty (such as Theraputty).
 This provides proprioceptive input, increasing bodily awareness and helping with calmness.


Wrap your arms tightly around your body and squeeze.
Apply lotion or hand sanitizer and rub it in well.
Squeeze your hands together.
Wear a heavy leather jacket or weighted vest.
 The mouth muscles are used for self-calming, and tasting things can also be considered a stim.


Suck on a lollipop or hard candy.
Chew gum.
Buy a chewy bracelet or toy designed for special needs. These do exist at reasonable prices., Sit on an exercise ball or rocking chair. Consider staying standing and moving around to get things for people, or slowly wandering around the room as people talk. Pacing is considered acceptable in some environments.
 Depending on the noise level, you should be able to make quiet stims that satisfy your need for sound without disturbing others.


Click your teeth together. Even in a silent room, people shouldn't be able to hear this.
Listen to music with headphones.
In louder rooms, tap your feet, click your tongue, drum your fingers, hum, use echolalia,tap your pencil, etc.
Only click your pen if the room is quite loud; this can be a pet peeve.

