 One of the first steps you should take is to learn about the timeline of Ancient Rome. Learning about Rome’s timeline will help you understand the many events, figures, and periods that are essential in understanding Ancient Rome. Consider a few major events:


According to legend, Rome was founded in 753 B.C.E. by Romulus and Remus. In this era, the Kingdom of Rome grew large and powerful.
Rome transitioned to a republic in 509 B.C.E. The people of Rome had decided that their survival was consistently threatened by Roman rulers trying to exercise absolute power. This era introduced a constitution, magistrate and senate. This system was designed to balance the power of government.
In the centuries after this, Rome won a very costly and lengthy series of wars against invading Gaul and Carthage.
After the assassination of Julius Caesar in 44 B.C.E. and a civil war between his heirs Octavian and Mark Antony, Octavian proclaimed himself Emperor and the Republic became an Empire. A period of 200 years of peace and stability, known as the “Pax Romana,” followed.
Rome slowly began to decline.
In the 2nd and 3rd centuries C.E., the empire split into east and west. The west which included Rome itself, further divided and collapsed. The eventual sacking of Rome by invaders in 476 C.E. signaled the start of the Middle Ages in Europe.
The Eastern empire continued much longer, ruled from Constantinople, until it was eventually annexed by the Ottoman Empire., Before Christianity took hold in the third century C.E., Roman religion was dominated by a pantheon of gods and complex mythologies. Understanding the religion, philosophy, and mythology of Rome is central in learning about Roman history.


Gods and goddesses took various roles from health, wealth and fortune, to obscure spirits who looked after door thresholds.
In Ancient Rome, there was a deity or mythology to account for almost every experience a person could encounter.
Roman temples varied from grand structures such as the Pantheon, down to small household shrines known as Larariums., The empire was symbolically ruled by the emperor. The emperor controlled the army, looked after foreign affairs, and served as an arbitrator between the ruling families of Rome. Learning about this system will give you a much better understanding of Rome as a whole.


Like many other ancient cultures, there was a rigid social structure from slaves up to the ruling class.
Women, children, slaves and the common man or laborer, known as a plebeian, could not vote and had little recognition in Roman law.
The father of the family held control not only of his entire household and estate, but also his sons' land. A landowner could not exercise complete management while his own father lived.
Voting was often used and abused by the powerful elite. Voters who were eligible were divided up into classes and the order of voting was cast from wealthiest to poorest, so the poorer families who could vote were lumped into one class and seldom had a chance to vote at all.
Most legislation was drafted and passed by a popular assembly known as the "Comitia Tributa," while the Senate acted as a powerful advisory council which often made it very difficult to pass new laws and reforms.
During the time of the republic, the ruler essentially held a role as first citizen. When Rome was an empire, the rulers held absolute power., Knowing about Roman commerce and the economy is very important in understanding the complexity of ancient Rome. This is especially important as Rome’s global reach was very much economic in character.


Rome had its own units of measurement, including the pes or foot. The foot was divided into 12 unicae or inches, much like the imperial method still used today.
Part of what made Rome more powerful and easier to trade with was their unified coinage system. This allowed coins to be legally produced at mints around the empire.
What complicated the economy was Rome's lack of accountable budget or reserve institutions. The territories earned funds for the empire in farm and other taxes, as well as tribute - but these often flowed through provincial governors before it made its way to Rome. These funds were often embezzled by officials or stolen by bandits.
Roman trade depended on sea ships and as Rome grew, so did its control of the Mediterranean Sea and the coastal lands that bordered it. Rome also had an extensive road network that connected the entire empire., Generally, much can be learned about Roman history by looking at notable Romans and how they lived and influenced Rome. Not only are the histories of Roman people interesting, but they’re a look into larger Roman life and society.


Think about rulers, such as Julius Caesar, Augustus, and Mark Antony.
Consider philosophers and scientists, such as Cicero, Epictetus and Seneca.
Look into learning about average Roman citizens. For more information, read: A Day in the Life of Ancient Rome: Daily Life, Mysteries, and Curiosities by Alberto Angela., Roman diet and food is also very important in understanding Roman history. Knowing about the foods of Ancient Rome will give you keen insight into how Romans lived.


Meat was an expensive luxury and their diet would occasionally feature meat which would be the main event of the meal. Common meat included pigeon, rabbit, pork, and game birds. Geese, chicken and fish, however, were very expensive and consumed by the wealthy households.
Breakfast was often called a "jentaculum" which was often served at dawn and included bread dipped in wine. Romans also ate fruit, honey, egg dishes and cheese, with meat being a staple in the wealthy households. The main meal of the day known as "cena," would often start in the early afternoon until late at night if guests were invited.
Wealthy Romans often ate reclining as well as eating off a table known as a "mensa." These banquets developed into the three main courses popular today - "gustatio" which was a first course, the "primae mensae" which was the main event, and the "secundae mensae" which was the dessert.
Roman breads were a luxury and bakers were famous for the loaves, rolls and fruit tarts. Bread for the poor, however, was tough stuff. It was heavy and usually made from spelt and other grains. It usually needed soaking in wine or water to be palatable as it quickly went stale.
The Romans also loved using spices and a salty sauce known as “garum.” Garum was made from fermented fish and fish guts that were slowly fermented over a few months. The Romans also used olive oil and wine vinegar as dressings., The Romans were great party-goers and their calendars show several dozen important festivals. Sacred days on the Roman Calendar typically outnumbered secular days, so there was always an opportunity to celebrate. Understanding important Roman festivals will give you great insight into Roman life.


One of the biggest celebrations "Saturnalia" is said to be a precursor to the Christmas celebrations celebrated today.
When learning about the different festivals of Ancient Rome, consider their context, origins, and the perspective of the person writing about them. This is important as it will tell you a lot about how they are framing their interpretation of those festivals.