 On a deeper level it's all about identification with form. For example: physical appearance, mind (psychological), situation, age, wealth, and the list goes on. None of that is you; you in essence are consciousness.... the spaciousness that's ever present within you.


The very nature of the forms is unstable and fleeting. From your thoughts and emotions to body to buildings to mountains to planets to galaxies; all forms change and dissolve, except the space where these forms come and go. For more depth read Know Your Trueself and Become Mentally Flexible.
"There was something formless and perfect before the universe was born. It is serene. Empty. Solitary. Unchanging. Infinite. Eternally present. It is the mother of the universe." Tao Te Ching.
 You are not your mind, not your thoughts and not your emotions. Most of your pain and suffering comes from the fact that you are so unconsciously identified with the hypnotic 'voice in your head' (or thoughts) that you take it as the truth. Deeply realize that you are not your thoughts. You are the presence that sees that voice in your head. Read Dissolve the Ego (According to Eckhart Tolle's Teachings) for more depth.


Example: When someone is mean to you and you feel hurt, it's not from the words they said but by the automatic mental interpretation of those words, the extent to which you identify with it. Its true that words have great power to put hypnotic spells on you but its only because you limit yourself with words and don't know your true essence, the consciousness that is you.
 Words offer a limited interpretation of things. It’s like putting labels on things to make them finite in the same way we label ourselves to make us finite. We think about finite things because our mind insists upon making what we experience into something or some form, through conceptualization. For example, if an orange was called 'Sedlak' would it change its taste,color, peel, features, etc? No.


Do you think a few letters of a language can define the timeless and eternal stillness that you are? Its fine to use labels for easier verbalization but deeply realize that they are just labels or signposts.

