 OBS is a free recording and screencast program that is currently available for Windows and OS X. A Linux version is in the works. You can get OBS from obsproject.com/index.


Windows users can click the "Windows 7/8" button. This works with Windows Vista as well as long as it is up-to-date, but Windows XP is not supported.
Mac users will need to click the "OS X 10.8+" button under "Get OBS Multi-platform".
 When you first start OBS, you'll need to define a "Source". This is the video feed that OBS will capture to make the recording or stream.


Right-click in the "Sources" box.
Select "Add" and then the source you want to record from. You can select your entire screen (Monitor Capture) or specific windows (Window Capture). There are several other options as well; if you want to record a video game, select "Game Capture".
Select which window or application you want to capture (if applicable). If you selected Window Capture or Game Capture, you can use the drop-down menu at the top of the Settings window to choose which window or app you want to capture. You can also choose to use a hotkey to start and stop recording instead.
Accept the default settings. For now, just accept the basic settings for your chosen source. You can adjust these later to suit your needs as you get more familiar with the program.
 If you selected "Monitor Capture", you should see a live preview feed of your entire screen.
 There are a few settings you may want to tweak before you begin recording. You can open the settings menu by pressing the Settings... button.


The "Encoding" tab allows you to change your video and audio encoding settings. Most users can leave these at their defaults, but you can modify these settings to adjust the quality and file size.
The "Broadcast" tab allows you to enter in any streaming service information, allowing you to connect OBS to Twitch, Ustream, and most other live streaming services. You can also use this tab to change the location that recordings are stored, which are saved to the Videos folder in your User folder by default.
The "Video" tab allows you to select your adapter, as well as adjust the resolution of the recording. Windows Vista and 7 users should check the "Disable Aero" box to improve performance.
The "Audio" tab allows you to choose your default microphone for audio recording, as well as the audio output from your computer that you want to record.
The "Hotkeys" tab lets you set keys that you can use to start and stop recording and streaming. These are very useful for controlling your recording without having the OBS window open and visible. You can also set keys for "Push-to-Talk", which will only activate your microphone when the key is held.
 Once you have adjusted the settings to your liking, you can start recording by clicking the Start Recording button, or by pressing your "Record" hotkey., After you finish recording, your video file can be found in the location you specified. If you didn't change the location, you'll be able to find them in the Videos folder in your User folder.
 OBS will record in FLV format. This format is fine for uploading to YouTube, but it is not compatible with all devices. Click here for instructions on converting the video to a format that can be used on any device.

