 The bladder is a bodily organ that is essentially a muscular storage sack for urine. Normally, the bladder muscle sack can stay relaxed and expand to accept urine for several hours.The muscle that forms the bladder sack is called the detrusor muscle, which is also responsible for bladder emptying. The other main muscles of the bladder are called the sphincters, which are two rings of muscle surrounding the bladder outlet through which it empties.


One sphincter is involuntary (you aren’t aware of it) and the other is usually under our control, making it our voluntary sphincter. The latter is the muscle you can use to hold the urine back until you go to the bathroom.;
, There are nerves in your body that provides you with the sensation of bladder fullness. This is the early warning system that the bladder is ready to empty. When you urinate, the nerves to the detrusor muscle signal it to contract or squeeze, while at the same time, the nerves to the involuntary sphincter make it relax.


When you release your voluntary sphincter, you allow yourself to urinate.By around age two, most children become aware that the sensation that they feel “down there” is the need for the bladder to empty. This allows them to express the need to go to the bathroom.
About a year later, they develop the ability to “hold it” until they have a chance to go to the bathroom., There are issues that can cause problems when a child is learning how to “hold it”. While most kids develop the ability to hold their urine and go to the bathroom when they have the opportunity to do so, problems can arise that can mess up a child’s ability to control her bladder. These issues that are related to childhood incontinence can include:A bladder that is unable to store the usual amount of urine.
Weakness of the detrusor muscles or sphincter.
Structural abnormalities of the urinary tract.
The body producing larger amounts of urine than is normal.
Bladder irritation from infections, such as urinary tract infections, or other bladder irritants.
The bladder receiving unexpected and premature nerve signals to empty.
Something in the area of the bladder keeping it from filling completely, such as other excrement caused by constipation.
Excessive postponement of urination, or holding it for too long.
Chronic constipation.
 If your child has been dealing with incontinence for an extended period of time, chances are she is dealing with more of an issue that simply being too lazy to get to the bathroom. A lot of parents tend to think that daytime incontinence is a display of laziness, but it is important to keep in mind that something else might be causing your child to have accidents. Common thoughts that parents have that should probably be ruled out if your child has been dealing with incontinence for awhile. In these situations, you should know that:Children who wet themselves are not just too lazy to go to the bathroom.
Children who wet themselves are not too busy playing or watching TV.
Children who wet themselves want to go to the bathroom and do not willfully wet themselves.
Children who wet themselves do not choose to wait until the last minute.
Wetting themselves does bother them.

