 To keep your heart healthy as you get older, be sure to include physical activity in your daily routine. Regular moderate activity will help you stay slim, reduce arterial stiffening in the heart, and lower your blood pressure. Exercise also keeps your bones, joints, and muscles strong and healthy. Exercise also lowers blood sugar levels and lowers levels of LDL cholesterol.Good activities for heart health include walking, jogging, swimming, bicycling, and dancing.
Good activities for joint, bone, and muscle health include walking, tennis, climbing stairs, and weight training.
 Smoking is incredibly bad for your health, and can increase the signs of aging dramatically. Smoking increases your heart rate, your blood pressure, damages your lungs, and hardens your arteries. Smoking creates unsightly wrinkles around your mouth, causes skin to sag and become thinner, and yellows your teeth – all of which make you look older.Over-the-counter gums (Nicorette), lozenges (Commit, Nicorette), and adhesive skin patches (Habitrol, Nicoderm) may help you quit smoking by reducing nicotine cravings.
Ask your doctor about medications that can help you quit smoking, such as bupropion (also known by brand names Wellbutrin and Zyban) or varenicline tartrate (Chantix).
 Eating vegetables has been linked to living longer and being more healthy overall. Vegetable consumption has been linked to reduced risk of cancer and other deadly diseases.Vary your vegetables. Eat vegetables of every color: green, red, yellow, white, and orange.
Eat lots of uncooked green leafy vegetables like spinach and kale, carrots, cauliflower, and red peppers.
Children aged 2-6 should get at least 3 servings of vegetables per day. Adults should consume at least 4 servings of vegetables each day.
One vegetable serving is equivalent to one cup (240 mL) of leafy vegetables like lettuce, ½ cup (120 mL) cooked vegetables, or ¾ cup (180 mL) of vegetable juice.
 There is overwhelming evidence that eating fresh fruit as part of a balanced diet will improve your health overall. Fruits are an invaluable source of fiber and essential minerals and vitamins.Children aged 2-6 should get at least 2 servings of vegetables per day. Adults should consume at least 3 servings of fruit each day.
One fruit serving is equivalent to one medium banana, orange, or apple; ½ cup (120 mL) of canned, chopped, or cooked fruit; or ¾ cup (180 mL) of fruit juice.
 In order to appear youthful, your body must be well rested. While you sleep, your body repairs itself: sleep is vital for healing your heart and blood vessels. Most adults require 7 to 8 hours of uninterrupted sleep every night.Turn off the TV, your computer, and smart phone at least an hour and a half before bedtime – their screens emit a type of blue light that triggers a “daytime” response in your brain, making it hard to get to sleep.
Try to expose yourself to at least 30 minutes of direct sunlight in the morning. This helps regulate your circadian rhythm, which tells your brain when you should be awake or asleep.
Avoid all types of caffeine within 6 hours of bedtime.
Keep your room cool at night – between 60 and 68 degrees Fahrenheit (15-20 degrees Celsius) is thought to be the optimal temperature for good sleep.

Adults over age 70 should increase vitamin D to 800 IU per day.
Good sources of vitamin D include: egg yolks, oily fish like tuna or sardines, fortified milk, and commercial supplements.
 For good joint, bone, and muscle health, be sure you are getting your recommended dosage of calcium every day.Women under 50 need about 1,000 mg of calcium per day, and 1,200 mg over age 50.
Adult men under 70 require at least 1,000 mg of calcium per day; after age 70 they should get at least 1,200 mg per day.
Good food sources of calcium include: kale, soy products like tofu, broccoli, almonds, dairy products, kale, and sardines.
If you feel you aren't getting enough calcium in your daily diet, ask your doctor if you can take supplements.

