 During pregnancy, many women experience symptoms that lead to discomfort, including: nausea and vomiting, bleeding gums, hemorrhoids, yeast infections, stretch marks, and swelling.Most people will be sympathetic to your plight--especially if they have experienced pregnancy themselves. However, resist the urge to overshare information about your body in professional situations. Take a sick day if you need to, but do not tell all your coworkers and clients about just how bad your hemorrhoids have gotten.


Be sure to talk to your doctor about any sudden symptoms you experience.
 During pregnancy, you might not be able to stand for long periods of time or lift heavy objects. Feel free to ask a neighbor for help lifting a box or ask someone on the train for their seat. People will understand, and most people will be happy to help.Be sure that you express your gratitude to anyone who lends you a hand during pregnancy. Always be polite and kind--especially to those who have gone the extra mile to help you.
 Many pregnant women report being asked inappropriate questions or even being touched inappropriately during pregnancy.Strangers might try to touch your belly, or your boss might grill you about why you drank a cup of coffee that morning. Remember that your body is your own, and other people do not have the right to know your private, medical information (even if you do have a baby bump). However, social norms might make it difficult for you to draw firm boundaries. For example, you are probably better off not yelling at your boss. However, there are some tricks you can use to make sure that people do not violate your privacy. For example:


Be vague when asked an inappropriate question about your pregnancy choices. Bland cliches that do not directly answer their question, such as "I'm just so happy to be a new parent!" or "It's really exciting!", might help distract someone from prying further.Redirect the conversation. Tell them that you don't want to hog the spotlight with your pregnancy and ask them how their day is going. Getting them to talk about themselves is a great way to prevent them from prying into your life.Be honest when something makes you uncomfortable. Especially if you are touched without your permission, tell the person grabbing your belly that your personal space is important to you. Be firm without yelling, cursing, or being impolite. But remember that the person who touched you is the truly disgraceful person.
Practice using the following phrases: "That's between me and my doctor;" "That's between me and my spouse/partner;" "Thank you for telling me about your experience, but everybody's experience is different;" "We haven't decided on a name yet ;" "We'll see how it goes." These are great ways to disarm some of the most common prying questions.
 Many pregnant women have formal baby showers. Other pregnant women might be given gifts to help them prepare for the new baby. Whenever you are given a gift, write a personalized, effusive thank-you note to express your gratitude. Gratitude is one of the most graceful emotions you can express, and your friends and family will feel appreciated for the help they've given you.

