 Some foods naturally contain more sodium than others. Including more of these foods can help maintain a higher sodium balance.


Try include one or more servings of these high sodium foods daily: fish and shellfish, swiss chard and spinach, artichokes, seaweed, red meat, and eggs.Also include foods that are high in salt and have other benefits. For example fermented foods like sauerkraut or kimchi have higher sodium contents but also have been shown to be beneficial for digestion.Do not consume a lot of highly refined or high processed foods. Even though these are typically higher in sodium, they also come with a cost of being higher in sugar, fat and calories.You want to manage sodium levels in the healthiest way possible.;
, Another easy way to get in extra sodium to your diet is by using more salt on your meals and while you cook.


One teaspoon of salt contains about 2300-2500 mg of sodium.Sprinkle your meals with a little salt and use it while you're cooking.
When using prepared sauces, marinades or canned foods, do not choose low-sodium items. Also try using products that contain higher salt contents. For example: use salted butter instead of unsalted butter.
 These categories of fluids may worsen low sodium levels. Both can cause electrolyte imbalances and also act as a mild diuretic.Caffeinated drinks to avoid include: coffee, tea and energy drinks. Be sure to look for bottled juices or sports drinks that promise an "increase in energy" as they might also contain caffeine.
Although it's appropriate to consume alcohol occasionally, it should be completely avoided if you are suffering from low sodium levels and are having difficulty managing them.
 Cutting back on the amount of water and other clear fluids you consume can help manage sodium levels. Too much water can dilute the sodium levels in your blood and make them more difficult to manage.Although water is crucial to your health, you shouldn't over consume it. In general your thirst should guide you to what is an appropriate amount of fluid. If you're not thirsty, you're most likely consuming an adequate amount of fluid.Also take note of your urine color. If your urine is pale yellow and you're using the bathroom between 4-6 times daily, you're most likely consuming adequate fluids daily.Reducing your water intake will help your body naturally raise its ratio of sodium to water. This may be easier and more effective than sodium replacement.
 These drinks contain electrolytes and will provide the necessary amount of minerals, including sodium.Even the low calorie or diet sports drinks contain extra sodium and other helpful electrolytes.
Sports drinks are also a great way to replenish temporarily reduced sodium levels after vigorous exercise.
 Oral rehydrating solutions are especially helpful in cases of diarrhea, vomiting, and excessive sweating.


Commercially-available ORS can be bought over the counter. They are usually meant to be diluted with 1 L of water and consumed in one sitting.
ORS can also be made at home using 6 level teaspoons of sugar and 3/4 teaspoon of salt, diluted in 1 US-quart (950 ml) of water.You can mix this solution with powdered flavorings to help make the solution more palatable.
Coconut water is also a good ORS substitute as it contains natural electrolytes to help manage fluid balance.

