 It doesn't always change symbols, but there's a good chance it will, so it's good to keep in mind that the 2 you just hit might be a Knight the next time you give it a slam.
 Though the sword in the back will slowly cool down and become gold, it doesn't represent a timer. You will have used up an hour of labor when you run out of moves, so whatever you do, avoid running out of moves!, The board will start off as being entirely gold, with all the pieces still hot. Hitting it once will result in it becoming a stone gray color, and hitting it twice will result in it becoming shiny, silver, and completely cooled. If you hit a silver block one more time, the block will disappear completely, meaning you will no longer be able to hit it. It's not a good idea to begin destroying blocks for good in the beginning, because then you'll have fewer moves when you're near the end. This results in the labor work ending earlier with several warmer blocks remaining, which never makes for a good sword., When you first begin, you'll only have blocks labeled one through three, but you'll eventually also work with fours. The number on the block represents how far the next turn will be.







Striking a "1" block: you will only get a range of one block far. Working with these ranges are much easier than others. You'll be able to hit any block surrounding the "1" block you just hit.






Striking a "2" block: you won't get to hit in a two-block range, as you won't be able to hit any surrounding blocks. Instead, you will be able to hit blocks two blocks away, whether it's vertical, horizontal, or diagonal.
Striking a "3" block: you won't get a three-block range either. Similar to the two, it will instead allow you to hit blocks three blocks away, also vertically, horizontally, or diagonally.






Striking the "4" block: it works just like the "2" and "3" blocks; it can hit blocks four blocks away vertically, horizontally, or diagonally.
 Along with many number blocks, you'll find several chess pieces. In the same way, there are four different number blocks, and there are four different chess pieces. However, unlike the number blocks, each chess piece has their own unique movement rules., They are little castles with a sword piercing through it along with some waves in the background. If you use a Rook piece, you must strike a block that is either vertically or horizontally lined up with it. Along with lining it up, the piece must be at the edge of the board.
 Bishops look like lighthouses with two crossed rapiers behind it. If you use a Bishop piece, you must strike a block that is diagonally lined up with it. Similar to the Rook piece, the block it hits also has to be on the edge of the board.
 Knight blocks depict a horse with a mermaid-like lower body. If you use a Knight piece, you must strike a piece that goes two squares in any non-diagonal direction then one block that is perpendicular to it. Though these pieces may not sound very useful, they can be real lifesavers if you plan accordingly.
 Queens depict a small skull in the center of the block along with a crown and some leaves. They're described as being quite flexible, and they certainly are; Queens can strike any edge piece that is horizontal, vertical, or diagonal to the block. Think of it as a combination of a Rook and a Bishop.
 Rum Jugs are like wilds; they can go absolutely anywhere on the board that has an available space.

Obtaining a Rum Jug requires you to hit every block on the board once. If you want a second Rum Jug, you'll have to strike every square again until they're all silver.
 A good idea for racking up a lot of points is planning out moves that will result in combos. Combos award you with lots of extra points, and getting several combos in a row will leave you performing incredibly and doing expert labor, meaning you'll get tons of pieces of eight for your labor!, The most occurring combos include the "Fancy Hammerin'" combo, which you get from striking one of every Chess Piece; the "By The Numbers", which you get from striking numbers in their numerical order (e.g. 4, 3, 2, 1 or 1, 2, 3, 4); and the "In The Rhythm", which you get from striking one of every number in a non-numerical order., For example, if you hit a queen twice in a row, you'll get a x2 combo, or a "Double". These kinds of combos continue all the way up to x6. From least to most hits in a row, you'll receive the combos "Double", "Triple", "Bingo", "Donkey", and finally "Vegas"., This is when you do several different combos continuously, like getting an "In The Rhythm" combo then immediately getting a "By The Numbers" combo afterward. This will rack up a ton of points, resulting in good swords and good labor.