 Recently, Justin’s been going more for long T-shirts, so if you want to show your fandom, you should too. Justin also wears band T-shirts, such as Nirvana.


Wear a Justin T-Shirt. You could announce you’re a True Belieber on the shirt itself!Or just wear T-shirts a lot because Justin does.
Justin’s T-shirts are usually in neutral colors, like gray, white, or beige. One of his favorite looks is to wear a T-shirt underneath a plaid or other buttoned-down shirt. A big exception to the neutrals: Purple. Mix some purple into your outfit as it is his favorite color.
Justin’s T-shirts have gotten so long that they’ve almost resembled tunics that reach his knees.;
, Justin is a big fan of sports team clothes. So, if you want to look like him, you’ll have to wear some jerseys, especially for professional basketball teams.


He sometimes lays it on thick, wearing a baseball cap along with a short-sleeved basketball team jersey.
Justin doesn’t stick with one team. He’s been seeing wearing Toronto Raptors Classics Purple Swingman shorts. He’s worn a Charlotte Hornets teal jersey and a Denver Nuggets Navy blue jersey, and many others.
He sometimes wears T-shirts with team names or sports brands, like Nike, on them. You could also wear camouflage. Whether it’s a camo T-shirt or camo shorts, Justin is a fan of the pattern.
 Justin likes short sleeved button-down plaid shirts or plaid shirts without any sleeves at all. It’s one of his most common looks. You’ll look like a true fan in one.


To look like a True Belieber, make sure you wear a solid colored T-shirt underneath the plaid shirt. That’s his signature look.
Justin’s stylist has described him as being “really a skater boy, that’s really what he looks like” and says they try to reference ‘70s and ‘80s skater culture.To look like Justin, you can try out the flannel shirt look but in black-and white-colors, not just the typical red-and-white.
 Justin wears hoodies a lot. His entire vibe is pretty casual and loose, as if he’s not taking things too seriously.


Justin especially likes hoodies that come with extra-long drawstrings. Justin is not a fan of the super tight look.
Justin changes up his hoodies by wearing sleeveless ones sometimes. Try olive green Army colors.
If you want to be a True Belieber, dressing like he does is a way to show your respect and admiration.
 Justin likes this look. Think baggy gray shorts as one possibility. The shorts shouldn’t be too, well, short.Wear shorts that fall just above the knees if you want to look more like a True Belieber. That’s how Justin does it.
Basketball team shorts are a favorite. For example, Justin has worn Los Angeles Clippers baggy basketball shorts.
Justin also has been photographed in baggy red shorts that sometimes fall slightly down, revealing a glimpse of his Calvin Klein underwear!

, Going along with Justin’s casual vibe, he’s often seen in jeans. If you want to be a True Belieber, you should do the same.


Justin wears low-waisted skinny jeans in destroyed denim. Look for stone-washed jeans with rips in them.
He likes black jeans a lot. Try Saint Laurent Original Low Waisted Destroyed Skinny Jean in black.
Justin doesn’t wear high-waisted jeans, and he doesn’t wear baggy jeans as much as he wears baggy shorts.
 Although Justin rocks a casual look, there are times that he’s out on the town and has to dress up.


For dress up, Justin is usually in tight-fitting skinny suits. He sometimes tries them in interesting colors, like dark purple or pairs them with colorful or unusual jackets.
When he wears a tie, it’s usually a skinny black one. He’s not a fan of pattered ties.
Wear a simple white buttoned-down shirt under the suit to look like a True Belieber.
 Justin wears tennis shoes a lot, especially high tops in brand names. So you’ll have to ditch the fancy footwear.


Try Nike Air Command Force shoes in black/pink pow/white. Or try wearing a pair of red trainers.Justin often wears high tops, but not always. He’s also been seen in ankle strap sneakers. Leather sneakers are one of his favorite looks, but he’s also sometimes seen in canvas shoes.
Justin’s footwear stands out. He makes statements with his shoes. He’s not afraid to set trends and try something new. Avoid Uggs! Justin hates Ugg boots on girls, so wear tennis shoes instead.
 To look like a true Belieber, you should be a fan of leather. Justin is often seen in leather clothing.


He’s worn an Acme leather Biker jacket and leather pants. The leather jacket is a common item he wears, so you’ll capture his vibe if you wear one too.
Leather tennis shoes are among his favorite. He wears leather in many articles of clothing.
You can often find leather jackets and pants that look like his designer duds for cheaper prices, though. Try stores like H&M.
 Justin is a fan of hats. Wear a black hat. Or wear a beanie. Justin is a fan of beanies.


He’s been seen pairing a red beanie with a gray sweatshirt and baggie white pants with tears in them, along with Nike high tops.
When he wears fancier hats, with a brim, as he sometimes does, they're usually black.
Wear a button that says something cute, like "Mrs. Bieber," "I have Bieber Fever," "Justin is mine," and so on. To make it, just print the right sized picture for a plain button you have and glue it on.
 Justin likes to put clothes on top of other clothes. For example, he will wear a buttoned-down shirt over a T-shirt.


Justin was once quoted as saying he’s “really into, like, drapy things, drapy sweaters, layering pieces.”This layering principle goes with his headgear too. For example, he’s often spotted wearing baseball caps until sweatshirt hoodies. He will wear a T-shirt over another T-shirt. He will tie a shirt around his waist.
You might also see Justin wear a tunic length T-shirt under a hoodie. As a True Belieber, you want to show you appreciate his style by emulating it.
 If you want to look like a True Belieber, you’ll need some tattoos. His tattoos are well-known, and he’s not shy about showing them off.


Justin has a tattoo of a cross in the center of his chest. But that’s just for starters! He’s got a lot of tattoos, so a lot of True Beliebers do too.
What sets Justin’s look apart are the tattoos on both of his arms. He’s got tattoos covering his left arm from shoulder to wrist, and tattoos on his right arm from his wrist to his elbow.
Some of Justin’s lesser known tattoos are very small. For example, he has a tattoo of a bird on his lower abdomen.
 Justin is into the baggy look, whether it’s pants or shorts, and you can often see a little glimpse of his underwear peeking out.


He often wears white underwear with the brand name Calvin Klein across the waistband. Justin has also worn Calvin Klein’s low rise cotton trunk in red flair.
Be lean. Justin is in great shape. He’s muscular, and his abs are defined. He doesn’t have much body fat, which is one reason his waistbands sometimes fall down.
 Justin has a very signature look. His hair is emulated and copied by many fans.


Go light on the makeup. Don’t cake it on. You won’t look like Justin then. As for the hair, decide whether you want to go early Justin (with heavy bangs) or later Justin (with longer bangs but pushed back off his forehead).
Paint your nails a color from his line, One Less Lonely Glitter or write something cute, such as the initials JB or some hearts with a nail art pen.
Keep your hair short on the sides– and brown or highlighted. He’s worn his hair bleached blonde, but that is not his signature look. You won’t see Justin with long hair, and you won’t look like his fan with it, either.
 Wear jewelry. Whether it’s necklaces or bracelets, you will usually see Justin wearing some kind of jewelry. Justin also likes small round sunglasses.


Go heavy on the necklaces. Justin likes long necklaces. He might wear two at once, such as a dog tag and a cross. He’s been spotted in a silver link necklace. Generally he favors longer necklaces.
Justin has worn a black What Would Jesus Do bracelet.
Another accessory that Justin sometimes wears is metallic gloves. He's more likely to wear these while performing, though.He likes paisley bandannas too.