 You will be saturating the fabric with turpentine-diluted oil. Oil in general tends to darken fabrics by a shade or two. This is something you might want to keep in mind., Wash the fabric if it is dirty. If the fabric cannot be washed, and it's only a little dirty or dusty, then clean it with a vacuum or a brush. If the fabric cannot be washed and it is heavily soiled, then clean it using a specially-formulated fabric cleaner.
 You will be working with waxes, oils, and other solutions that repel water. If your fabric is in anyway damp or wet, the solutions you will be using will not stick.
 Try to work outside, if you can. If you cannot work outside, then keep a window open. Turpentine can get quite pungent.
 Pour everything into a durable plastic container and stir it with a wooden paint stirrer. You will be painting the mixture onto your fabric later using a large paintbrush.









If you are working on a small piece of fabric, then you can pour everything into a plastic spray bottle and spray it on. Close the bottle and shake it to mix everything together.
 Turpentine and oil can both stain porous surfaces such as wood and concrete. If you are worried about this, you might want to protect your work surface with plastic tablecloth first. Don't use newspaper. The ink can transfer to your fabric., Dip a large paintbrush into the mixture, and wipe the excess mixture off on the rim of the bucket. Brush the mixture onto the fabric using a long, straight, even stroke. Keep brushing the mixture onto the fabric until everything is covered. Always go in the same direction. Also, try to overlap the strokes by a little; this will prevent any gaps.









A wide, flat bristle brush will work the best for this. Avoid soft bristles, such as camel hair.
If you are using a spray bottle, then simply spray the mixture onto the fabric. Try to overlap the patches by a little to avoid any gaps.
 This can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days. Once again, turpentine and soybean oil can both cause stains, so it might be a good idea to cover the flat surface with a plastic tablecloth first.








