 Cash gifting is when you give someone any amount of money without an exchange of goods or services. You can give cash gifts without paying taxes under a certain limit.Any cash gifts under $14,000 per person in a calendar year are not taxed. Cash gifts under this amount are not required to be filed as a gift underneath that limit.
Cash gifts over the $14,000 limit are applicable to be taxed. This is per person, so if you give $28,000 to your son and his spouse then it will not be taxed. It is usually the responsibility of the donor to pay taxes over this amount.;
, There are some exclusions to taxable gifts. Even if you are over the $14,000 limit, you may not have to pay taxes on these types of gifts.Tuition or medical expenses are excluded from taxable gifts. If you are paying tuition for your son or daughter, you won’t have to pay taxes on those gifts even if they are over the limit.
Gifts to your spouse are excluded from taxes for the most part. Since you are considered a unit by the IRS, you do not have to pay taxes on gifts to your spouse.
Any amount given to charities or political organizations are also not taxed as gifts. These usually fall under a separate classification for tax purposes.
 If the gift is over the $14,000 exclusion amount, you have to file a Form 709, which reports the gift as not meeting exclusions. For the most part, you will have to pay some taxes on your gift.Gifts that exceed the minimal exclusion ($14,000) to multiple people require you to file a Form 709. This does not apply to gifts to your spouse though.Gifts that are not for immediate use, but rely on future interest, may require a Form 709. Cash gifts require that the gift can be used immediately in order to count as an exclusion.
Any interest in property that you gave your spouse that’s not for immediately use requires a Form 709. This is especially true if that interest is given for only a limited time.
 Gifts are not usually tax deductible unless they are sent to charities rather than individuals. Unless your son or daughter is literally a charity, legally speaking, you cannot deduct gifts given to them.If you are giving to charities, especially when paying from a business account, this is usually deductible under your taxes. The charity must be legally recognized by the IRS.
When donating to friends or family, they must be a legally recognized charity for you to be able to deduct the gift on your taxes. Otherwise, you must follow regular cash gifting procedures.

