 There are thousands of groups, in almost every conceivable field, that want volunteers. It is likely you can find something that fits your interests and your schedule.


Large, national groups are an easy place to start. If conservation is your passion, you can try the Sierra Club, or a niche group like Trout Unlimited. The Red Cross is another versatile option that always needs volunteers and donations.Athletic groups and competitions frequently require volunteers as well - everything from triathlons and marathons, to youth sports, to the Special Olympics.If you want a little adventure, try volunteering abroad. College spring break volunteer trips are often available through universities, while a huge variety of organization offer opportunities from church missions, to conservation projects, to volunteering on an organic farm., By being an energetic, effective leader you can inspire like-minded people to join you in supporting your passions.Enthusiasm is contagious. Project excitement about your cause and you’ll draw positive attention and even participation from others.
Harness that excitement into constructive action. Organize a volunteer event, raise money for a charity, or evangelize for your chosen cause, and with a little luck you’ll bring others along for the ride.
 There are many ways to do this, from choosing certain websites when shopping online, to choosing travel destinations based on sustainability or “voluntourism” opportunities.Take advantage of matching-gift policies. Many charitable groups have partners that offer to match donations dollar-for-dollar, so find those if you want to maximize your charitable impact.
You can donate your computer’s idle processing time to support research through groups like SETI, the Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing (BOINC), or Folding@Home. This can affect your utility bill, however.
Buy products that associate with or support your favored cause. Companies partner with charities and groups of every description, so check to see if there’s a way to support your passion while purchasing what you need.
 If volunteering or creative outlets aren’t enough for you, you can build a career out of your passion by starting a nonprofit group.


While this requires substantial resources that may be too much for some, you can devote your time fully to a cause by creating your own nonprofit group.Check to make sure that there is no existing group that adequately meets the need you hope to fill. If one exists, consider whether a new group is necessary, or if it would needlessly divide fundraising and advocacy for your chosen cause.
There are often substantial regulatory requirements for starting such a group that are location-specific, so check with the appropriate agencies where you live. Regulations may also be specific to certain types of organization. Political nonprofits, for example, have restrictions on certain activities related to advertising and fundraising that charity nonprofits do not.