 Showering helps, too. A little bit of cool H2O on the face is an energizing treat people have been using for a quite a while. This is water therapy at its finest and most efficient.
 If you stay in your pajamas, sweats, or birthday suit all day long, you may trick your brain into thinking it has an excuse to be lazy. If you get dressed in "normal" attire, however, you're telling yourself that there are things to do, people to see, and happiness to be found. We all know how comforting those sweats can be. But when it's time to get out of bed and be active, they're not as energy-producing as you might have hoped.
 People who have problems that are vexing them keep them inside for all sorts of reasons: they don't want to bother other people, they're afraid of how other people may judge them, or they simply feel they don't have the time to vent. Not being able to find a good emotional release for problems can be taxing to your energy.


Have a talk with one of your close friends. Confide in someone you can trust. Lay your feelings bare. Trust that the person you're confiding in has your best interest at heart and wants to help, if not hear you out. Getting rid of your anxiety in this way may help to lower stress and keep you energized longer.
Write down your feelings in a journal every day. If you don't have someone you feel you can confide it, a journal is a perfect substitute. Write down your feelings, your hopes, your aspirations. Simply putting them on paper can feel oddly relaxing and transforming.
 Whether it's Beethoven or Black Sabbath, music can give you an emotional boost. One recent study found that people who listened to music while running ran faster than those who didn't.Try burning a CD of your favorite tracks and listening to it when you need a pick-me-up.
 Exercise is about as close to a panacea as humans have gotten. Exercise improves health, mood, and your ability to sleep as well as feel energized. If you don't exercise regularly, try fitting a little bit of exercise into your daily routine. Walking for 30 minutes a day can be a huge boon to your health and energy levels.


Make time for office exercise. Whether it's sitting on an exercise ball instead of an office chair, doing stretches in front of your computer, or carving out time to walk during your lunch break, being at the office is no longer an excuse not to exercise.
 Being generous and altruistic can boost mood, life satisfaction, and energy levels.Find a way to give back to less fortunate people in your community for an instant mood and energy boost.

