


How many and which grades will you start with and how many will you eventually grow to include?
Many private schools start with fewer and lower grade levels and add upper grades over time.;
,


This statement will be the driving philosophy for your educational plans and a way to gather community support.
The mission statement should include a rationale for starting your school, your school values, the educational approach, the curriculum focus and goals and planned outcomes for students.



The committee will eventually become the core members of your board of directors.
Committee members should be experts in different areas, including education, legal, accounting, business and construction.



In some states, private schools are overseen by a division of the Department of Education. Other states have individual accrediting agencies for private schools, while still others have no private school regulations.



Determine if your private school will be proprietary (for-profit) or non-profit.
Most private schools incorporate and apply for tax-exempt status. File the appropriate paperwork with your Secretary of the State and the IRS. Your founding committee attorney should handle this step.



Create a 5-year business plan, including operational plans (such as financial and marketing) and educational plans (such as educational focus, curriculum, implementation and assessment).



The budget should include capital expenses.
Your committee accountant or financial specialist should help with the budget, or you should seek expert advice.
If you are operating as a non-profit, solicit contributions by asking for donations from foundations, applying for grants and establishing donations from private donors.



Locate a current facility or develop plans to build one.



The first 2 staff members you should hire are the headmaster and a business manager. This should be done approximately 18 months prior to the start of school so you will have experienced professionals to help implement the final steps to starting your private school.
The headmaster/administrator will be able to help you handle the educational and staffing aspects of the school plan, while the business manager will work with you on duties such as enrollment and purchasing.



Advertise for students through community, church and service groups. You can also advertise through local newspapers and magazines and submit your school to online and private school directories.
Design a website that will provide admissions and enrollment information.
Join national private school associations for exposure such as NIPSA.org and NAIS.org.



Begin the admissions process for students.
Order your curriculum materials, furniture and educational supplies.



It is extremely important to find highly-qualified teachers and staff, so be competitive in your compensation.
States vary in requirements for private school teacher qualifications.
Provide faculty training sessions several months before the start of school to familiarize the teachers and staff with the school, policies, procedures, expectations, curriculum and your vision for the school.



Plan your opening for when other schools in the area are starting. This is usually in the early fall, although in peninsular Florida it tends to be in August.

