 Exercise stimulates the release of the biochemicals endorphins and norepinephrine. Endorphins decrease the sensation of pain and norepinephrine may contribute to the regulation of mood.In addition to the chemical effects of exercise, regular workouts will help you feel good about yourself.


Workout for at least half an hour, at least five days a week, to maintain the mood-elevating effects of exercise.
There's no need to join a gym or hire a trainer. A brisk walk is usually all it takes to get your chemicals flowing.;
, A healthy diet also contributes to general feelings of wellbeing, but some vitamins and minerals especially may help to boost mood. B vitamins may help improve mood, so load up on green vegetables, like asparagus. Omega-3 fatty acids, found in fish and eggs, may protect against the effects of stress.To satisfy your sweet tooth, eat two ounces of dark chocolate each day. Chocolate with at least 70% cocoa has been shown to reduce the levels of cortisol, a stress hormone., Sleep deprivation can contribute to irritability and poor mood regulation. Quality sleep will increase energy and help you manage stress. The optimum amount of sleep varies for individual, but for most adults it's between seven and nine hours.Sleeping more than this generally will not improve your mood and may actually make you feel depressed or tired.
 Notice when your self-talk or thoughts become pessimistic, abusive, defeatist, or negative. Then consciously take that thought and reframe it in a positive way. This corrects faulty thinking and gives you a better chance of being happy and successful.If you catch yourself thinking, "This project is too huge. I'll never finish it by the due date," try reframing your thinking to set yourself up for success. Instead, say "This is going to be a challenge, but if I break the assignment down into smaller parts and manage my time, I will get it done."If your friend snapped at you and you immediately think, "She hates me," reconsider. Reframe with something like, "I know she's going through an extremely stressful time and probably isn't aware of her attitude and demeanor. That response had nothing to do with me."
Reframing takes a conscious effort on your part, but it can help you change the tone of your self-talk into something positive, supportive, and kind.