 While in the sauna, you’ll begin to sweat quite a bit. For this reason, you should choose to wear clothes that are comfortable even when you’re sweaty. Some examples you might want to consider include gym or yoga clothing.


Moisture wicking fabric draws moisture away from your skin. If you don’t like feeling sweaty, these fabrics can help minimize that sensation.In some cases, the facility at which you’re having your infrared sauna may have certain clothing requirements. Ask an attendant what kind of clothing is acceptable to wear during your experience.;
, Sweating, while great for your skin and an excellent way of purging toxins, will dehydrate you. At minimum, you should bring a bottle of water to sip on during your time in the sauna. Drink your water at regular intervals throughout the process.


Some indications of dehydration include extreme thirst, infrequent urination, urine that is especially dark, confusion, and tiredness. If you exhibit any of these symptoms, leave the sauna and drink water or a specially formulated rehydrating drink.If you’re a heavy sweater, have low water intake, or are especially physically active, you may want to bring a sports drink or a specially formulated rehydrating beverage to the sauna. These are fortified with electrolytes, which are necessary for rehydration., There are plenty of ways you can make your infrared sauna experience more relaxing. For example, you might use your phone to play your favorite tunes. In some cases, you may even be able to hook up your phone to a sound system in the sauna. Other techniques you might use to improve relaxation include:


Variable lighting. Some saunas may have lighting you can adjust. Try different lighting schemes available and select the one that puts you most at ease.Aroma therapy. Saunas may provide you a spray bottle with some lavender water or some other essential oil/water combination. If not, you might ask an attendant if you can bring essential oils of your own and use these during the process.

Meditation. By closing your eyes, clearing your mind, and focusing on your breathing, you can significantly reduce stress and improve relaxation while in the sauna., Generally, even after your first time in an infrared sauna, you should notice a positive difference in your skin. Wash your face and take a look at the results in a mirror. In some cases, it might take a few sessions before you notice a difference.


Infrared saunas aren’t necessarily for everyone. If you find the sensation uncomfortable, or if you don’t see significant results, infrared saunas may not be the right activity for you.If you experience pain, discomfort, an erratic heartbeat, difficulty breathing, or severe lightheadedness, you should stop using the sauna immediately and consult a doctor about further use.