 When signing up for online courses, be sure to consider how many courses you wish to take and how many hours you can devote to studying. A single online course can require that you set aside 7 hours of studying each week. Enrolling in two courses may require that you set aside 10 to 14 hours each week.To complete a course successfully, be sure that you can commit to the number of classes and the projected study hours.;
, Let your employer know that you will be taking an online course. They may be able to offer tuition assistance if the course can help you succeed in your current position. In addition, your employer may offer to adjust your work schedule to accommodate your online class commitments. Discuss your online schedule with your employer well in advance so they have enough time to consider and support these adjustments.If your class will help you in your current role at work, let your employer know. “I have been interested in taking an online photo editing course. I think these skills can help me enhance our monthly newsletters.” If your employer is able to understand that this course will help you and the company, they may be more supportive and accommodating.
 Having a reliable computer, internet access, and up-to-date programs are necessary to succeed in an online course. Before the course begins, make sure your computer is able to run any particular programs or tools that you will need to complete your coursework or interact in the online classroom. If you need a video editing software for your assignments, for example, be sure that your computer is able to run this program.Plan to review and navigate any new or unfamiliar programs before the course begins to ensure that you are comfortable with the program and that it runs efficiently.
Use programs like Dropbox or Google Drive consistently to save and back-up your work., Before signing up for an online class, talk to your academic or student advisor about what course you would like to take. If you are taking the class to earn a degree, it is important to talk to an advisor to make sure that the course will fulfill a particular requirement. This early step is important to ensure that you are taking a beneficial, worthwhile course for you.

