 Moisturizers, in general, are great for your skin. When you apply a moisturizer to your face, it plumps up the skin and helps reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles. It also protects the skin on your face from the various effects of weather, like heat and wind. And finally, and possibly most importantly, moisturizer increases the water content of your skin in order to keep it hydrated.Some moisturizers also offer sunscreen protection through SPF content. SPF, or Sun Protection Factor, indicates how well the screen will shield you from harmful ultraviolet radiation. The SPF number gives a rough sense of how long it will take for your skin to burn in the sun.If you use both a daytime and nighttime moisturizer, it’s normally the daytime version that includes SPF. Since the SPF is contained within the moisturizer, the instructions for applying it are the same as for non-SPF moisturizer.
SPF moisturizer should be used on your face all year round. Your skin can be exposed and damaged by the sun at any time of year (and in any kind of weather, sunny or not). Over time, exposure to the sun can damage the skin and increase your risk of skin cancer.;
, Before applying moisturizer you should always wash your face. A good skin care routine would have you wash your face twice a day. Once in the morning, and once in the evening (before bed). Apply your facial moisturizer after you’ve rinsed and patted your face with a towel, before your skin completely dries.Apply any facial treatments you use before the moisturizer, too. This will let them absorb properly.
When washing the face, use lukewarm to warm water. Hot water will dry your skin.
 Every type of moisturizer will come with its own instructions on how much of the product should be used on your face at a time. Thinner moisturizers may dry into the skin faster and require a larger amount to be used. Really thick moisturizers (or creams) may allow for a lot of coverage for only a small dollop of the product.Facial moisturizer also tends to come in different types of bottles or containers. For moisturizer that comes in a pump bottle, simply pump the required amount into the palm of your hand. For moisturizer that comes in a tub-like container, you can dip your fingers into the container as required.
If, after using the required amount of moisturizer, you find it is either too much or not enough, alter how much you use. Consider the recommended amount on the bottle to be a guideline or a place to start, not a hard and fast rule.
 Using the first two fingers of your dominant hand, apply dabs of moisturizer onto your face in the key dry areas such as your: forehead, cheeks, nose, chin, and neck.If one of those areas is particularly oily, don’t put a dab of moisturizer in that area.
Don’t forget to include your neck in both your washing and moisturizing routine. And if you are wearing a lower cut shirt, include whatever portion of your chest is visible. This is especially important when you’re apply a daytime moisturizer with SPF, which will help protect these areas from sun damage as well.
 Using the first two fingers of each hand, spread the moisturizer upwards and outwards from each dab on your face. Use a swirling motion to blend the moisturizer into your skin. It’s usually easiest to start at your neck, and work your way up your face to your forehead., Once you’ve blended your moisturizer into your face, allow it to dry for about 1-2 minutes before doing anything else. After that 1-2 minutes you can then apply any other products you want to your skin, including makeup.If you’re applying a separate layer of sunscreen to your face, apply it after your moisturizer. And make sure the sunscreen is designed for use on your face so it won’t clog your pores.

