 Jennifer likes to know that her skin is clear and rid of any spots, just like anyone else. To get the finished look before you have even started, grab your concealer and dab (or smear) over places where foundation or spot treatment will not cure.


This is an optional step; however, it gives you confidence to go through the whole day without foundation wearing off and being worried that the spot is visible. If you need this look to last all day, take a bag and keep a small concealer handy.;
, Foundation is also very handy to keep your skin clear or even just to add a bit of colour. Foundation is not the time to add colour to your face; this is a bit later on. Right now, focus on getting a shade lighter than your skin tone to get that natural look that Jennifer has.


Never get a shade later, because many foundations develop or look darker in different shades; you don't want to look like a stick of butter.
 As Jennifer is a natural pretty woman, she doesn't need bright and colourful eyeshadow so you won't need to apply a thick layer of it either. To get the eyeshadow to last, it is advised that you buy a eye primer to keep the shadow on the lid and it also prevents fall out. Now, for the shadow, take an eyeshadow brush, which is one of those puffy soft pads, and pat a beige colour on your lid and get as much coverage as you want. Then, take a champagne colour and spread it over your crease and outer corner giving the feline effect but do not make it too visible, as this is not what Jennifer has done.


For any mistakes, take a cotton bud and use eye make up remover gel to squirt on the pad and go round the outline of the shadow and cover any mistakes.
 Tilt your eyelash curler on an angle so that it makes your eyelashes direct outwards.
 Get a thick brushed mascara with clump free label on it and brush it outwards; do lots of strokes as this makes a wispy effect.
 Use an eyebrow pencil/eyebrow kit with eye shadow to outline your eyebrows to give that soft look to your eyebrows. If you are looking to look like Jennifer Aniston, then have a closer look at her eyebrows and follow the shape of them; maybe the colour if your eyebrows aren't too dark. Use an angled brush to do this.
 Fill in your eye shadow again and eye brows to prevent having gaps or lighter spaces in the eye area.
 Buy a wispy pair of eyelashes and glue them on to the closest part of your lash line and add a thin layer of eye liner to make your eyes pop! Make sure you leave the glue to get tacky before you apply, press down on your eyelashes in place for 10-15 seconds. This will make sure that the lashes are applied properly. When you open your eye look all around 5 times and then wiggle your eye lashes with tweezers to make sure they are to your standard. Once you are happy, move on.
 Now is the time to add colour to your face - as much colour as you want as long as you don't look like a pumpkin. To get the even look, contour in the cheeks and in the temple area and then using the excess of the bronzer on the forehead and down the nose. You could even contour your nose using an angled brush again making your nose look thinner than it is. Contour using a powder brush.
 Use a translucent colour that will just set the makeup, making it last longer. Then, put the powder and powder brush into your bag, along with the concealer.
 If you are feeling adventurous, try a lip gloss that plumps your lips like the soap and glory mother pucker. Also, add the lip gloss to your bag so you can top up on that.

