 Linen and cotton are good fabrics for a hot day. Loose clothes are generally better for keeping cool over tight, close-fitting ones, so consider flowing garments. Don't tuck everything in and button everything up.;
, Long-sleeved shirts made of cotton, hemp and other natural fabrics will help deflect the sun's rays and protect your skin., A broad-brimmed hat is essential to protect your face and to create some shade over your head.
 Pair with shirts, skirts, shorts, Capri pants and trousers. You don't have to show your legs off to keep cool or be cool. For both sexes, you might feel cooler in lighter colors, such as white, pale blue, light green, stone, etc., Consider wearing sandals that match your outfit. You can even put on some black and white pumps or flats. Flip-flops or jandals are great too. Go barefoot for really cool feet, but be wary about walking on hot surfaces like sand. Avoid boots, obviously!, The protective function of such lotion only lasts for a few hours and less when you are in water. Reapply frequently for best coverage. Do not rely on it alone, however. Always combine with wearing a hat, long-sleeved clothing and keeping out of the sun during the hottest part of the day.
, This is not a good time for exercising, sports or running around. Keep these activities for the evening when the air becomes cooler and the sun goes down.


Slow the heart rate down first by taking deep breaths. This will be calming and can cool the body.
 Even a small amount of water sprayed or splashed on you can help. Or try a face washer dipped in cold water and held against your face and forehead for instant cooling relief. Wet towels if you need to cool all of your body and wrap your legs, torso and arms with them.


Stand or sit in your bath and run the shower over your body and you should feel much cooler.
 This can be an effective way to bring about instant cool. Some suggestions include:

Wash your face and lie down in front of a fan.
Set your feet in really cold water. When your feet are cold, your body cools down.Wet your hair with cold water every half an hour.






Use a washcloth. Get a washcloth and soak it in cold water. Barely wring it out, and lay it on your neck. Repeat when needed.






Every half an hour, you can take a cold wet napkin and put in on your head for about 5 minutes or so. It relieves the heat going to your head - and feels good!






Run the insides of your wrists under cold water. If your major veins are cold or warm, your body is cold/warm.






Soak a bandanna in cool water and wrap it around your head. Re-wet often, because it will dry fast in the heat. Soak your cap, too.
 Get a bag of ice. Put it on your forehead for 30 minutes.


Chew on ice cubes. Its just like drinking water, only colder!






Take your washcloth, put ice blocks in it, and put it on your forehead while lying on your back.
Try filling a big cup with cold water and then put it in the freezer. Wait until it freezes and then you can take the ice cube out of the cup and dab it where you're sweating or hot.
 Don't go outside if you can help it between 11 o'clock and 3 o'clock, as these are the hours during which the sun is at its strongest.
 Try to do this without relying on fans too much. That way, you can be more independent of relying on any electrical equipment. This can become very important should there be a summer blackout.
 Use screens to keep out insects if they are a problem.
 Fans keep the air circulating and produce a small cooling effect. Place a wet face cloth on the fan to produce a mini air-conditioning effect. Be careful to set the wet cloth only on the outer cage part of the fan so that it cannot be caught by the fan blades. Also do not leave the room without removing the cloth from the fan.
 Read a good book, sit still or take a nap.When you move around, you will get hotter and hotter.
 If you can, select a shady body of water.
 There are lots of fun ways to use water to keep cool outdoors. Some suggestions include:

Consider running through sprinklers.






Have a water fight with a sibling or friend(s). Having a water gun fight is effective and fun too.
Dunk your head in cold water.
Pour a bucket of iced water over your head (Instagram ALS ice bucket competition).
Have a water balloon fight with your friends.
To keep your kids cool, get a paddling pool for them and fill it with cool water. You could also put up an umbrella to keep them in the shade.
Grab a companion, a hose, a sprinkler, a water bottle or water gun and flood your yard. Don't do this if you live under water restrictions.
 It keeps you cool and feels good.

