 In order to make sense of these instructions, we should know how to refer to each area of the balloon that we’ll be dealing with. Memorizing these terms—or just consulting this list if you become confused—will help immensely in the task ahead of us.


The body is what we might consider the main area of the balloon; it’s the spherical or oval-like chamber that we fill with air.
The lip is that ring of thicker material that surrounds the balloon’s opening and is where air enters and exits the balloon.
The neck is that slightly elongated area leading from the body to the lip.;
, Whether you’re using an air compressor, pump, or just your own good, old-fashioned lungs, start blowing into the balloon through its lip. If you’re having trouble keeping the balloon steady while you inflate it, delicately grip it by the neck.


The balloon should feel full, but not as though it has been filled to its utmost capacity. Stop inflating once it can hold its form with little give. A balloon that’s filled too full can easily pop, and will be difficult to tie off.
Ensure that the balloon still has a discernible neck. If you can’t tell where the body ends and the neck begins, your balloon is likely too full.
 We need to keep the balloon inflated, so one hand should always be holding the balloon for this purpose. Pinch the neck of the balloon once it’s been sufficiently inflated.
 You’ll need the balloon’s neck good and loose for the next step, so you’ll want to gently, rapidly tug on the neck a few times with the hand you’re not using to pinch the balloon shut. Three or four times should be sufficient.









Shoot for 3-6 inches of give when you stretch out the neck. You'll need it stretchy enough so that it can wrap around two fingers. Any less and you’ll likely have a hard time trying to tie this balloon off; any more and your balloon might not be fully inflated.
 The neck should be held as close to the body as you can manage, with the lip pointed toward you.
 At this point, you should place the thumb of your pinching hand against the pinching hand's index finger.
 Bring the lip all the way around and underneath your pinching fingers, without wrapping up your middle finger.









If you’re unable to pull the neck far enough, this could be an indicator that your balloon is too full, or that your neck wasn’t properly stretched. Loosen your grip on the balloon to slowly, slightly deflate it.
 Your pinching hand's thumb and index finger should now have the material stretched taut across them, but your middle finger should be excluded from the loop., Retract your thumb and finger—now grasping the balloon’s lip—back through the loop which you’ve wrapped around them.









You should be pulling your thumb and index finger inward, toward the hand that they belong to.
 If you kept hold of the lip, you should have created a knot. This balloon is ready to party!








