 Getting an hourglass figure is all about hitting the correct proportions - you don't want to drastically reduce your weight as some curves are essential to achieve this particular body shape. On the other hand, you are trying to reduce your waist size, which will require a certain amount of dieting. A healthy diet will also reduce bloating and water-weight, which is particularly good for shaving inches off the tummy area.


Cutting your total calorie intake, as well as being aware of the type of calories your are consuming (such as calories from fat, from protein, from fiber etc.) will help you to achieve your goals.
An ideal body fat percentage for an hourglass figure would be somewhere in the 17%-25% range - you want a certain amount of body fat to achieve those fabulous curves, but you also want to be trim and healthy.
If you need to lose weight in order to achieve a body fat percentage in this range, remember that one pound is equal to 3500 calories, so you will need to cut that many calories from your diet in order to lose weight., Maintaining a healthy diet is almost impossible if you are trying to starve yourself. Luckily, it is possible to lose weight and keep your stomach happy by eating smaller, more frequent meals throughout the day.


Eating more often means that you don't allow yourself to become too hungry between meals, which significantly reduces the risk of overeating.
It also stimulates your metabolism, helping your to burn calories faster. Aim to eat six small, healthy meals a day, rather than three larger ones.
 Even if you cut your calorie intake and reduce our portion sizes, your weight loss can be painfully slow or non-existent if you are eating the wrong types of food. Processed foods with high sugar or starch contents can limit weight loss and lead to the build-up of harmful toxins in the body.


Processed foods often have a high salt content too, which leads to water retention and a bloated appearance. Instead of ready-meals and frozen foods, opt for fresh, organic produce and whole grains.
Watch out for "non-fat" versions of foods like yogurts, cheeses and other foods, because although their fat content may be low, they are often packed with sugars and other empty carbohydrates which provide no nutritional value.
 Always having an array of healthy snacks at your disposal will help keep you satisfied between meals and prevent you from turning to fattening or processed options like potato chips and cookies. Try to keep a supply of delicious, seasonal fresh fruit in your kitchen, along with other healthy nibbles such as nuts, raisins, wholewheat crackers and rice cakes.
 You've heard it before, but increasing your daily intake of fruit and veg will do wonders for helping you to maintain a healthy diet. Fruit and vegetables are natural, unprocessed foods which contain none of the nasty additives or preservatives that pervade so much of our food today. They have a high nutritional content and are very low in calories - which basically means you can eat as much fruit and veg as you want!


Go for different colored fruit and vegetables to add interest to your mealtimes while benefiting from a wide range of vitamins and nutrients. Dark, leafy greens such as spinach, kale and cabbage are a particularly good option, as they are packed with vitamins and minerals which contribute to a healthy immune system.
If you're in need of a sugar-hit after a long day of work or a hard cardio workout, reach for a banana. They will provide you with the carbohydrate -filled energy boost you need without the accompanying crash that comes from eating chocolate and other junk food. Bananas also lower blood pressure, help the digestive system and improve your mood. What's not to love?, Water improves the appearance of skin, hair and nails while also flushing harmful toxins out of the body. Drinking a glass of water before mealtimes will also help you to eat less, as it stops your body from confusing symptoms of thirst with hunger.


If you have implemented an intense workout routine, drinking water is also important to prevent dehydration, which can cause headaches and a loss of muscle function.
You should replace any carbonated drinks - regular and diet - with water. Carbonated drinks are full of empty calories and harmful, processed sweeteners which build up your system and cause bloating and weight gain. They should be the first thing to go when you're trying to shed pounds!

