 If you know someone who is currently serving time in prison, consider writing to them to see if they would be interested in corresponding with you.


Try reaching out by saying something like, “I was wondering if you would be interested in corresponding with me while you’re there. I would like to send you some letters, if that is alright with you.”
Consider writing to any family members or other loved ones who is incarcerated.
Remember that they may not want to correspond with you and that’s okay. It's their choice.;
, If you want to write to someone who is incarcerated, make sure you only have good intentions for doing so. Receiving letters can be a great way to life an inmate’s spirits and keep them hopeful while they are serving their time. However, if you really only want to write them to tease them or make them feel guilty for being locked up, that is a selfish reason to write and you might actually end up doing more harm than good.


Only write to a prison inmate that you know if your intentions are positive and helpful.
Also keep in mind that there are restrictions about what you can and cannot write about to inmates. You absolutely can’t write to a prison inmate with the intent to blackmail them – this will definitely get you into some trouble. You also can’t include any contraband items, like nude photos.
 In order to write to any inmate, you’ll need to get their mailing address at the prison. You can contact the prison to ask for a specific inmate’s address and they will normally release that information to you. Additionally, you could get in contact with other family members or close friends of the inmate to see if they already have the inmate’s address.
When you address the envelope, be sure to write legibly and include all of the required information to ensure your letter is delivered. The address will probably include the inmate’s correctional facility identification number, so you’ll need to include that as well.
 In your letters, send the inmate updates about things that are happening in your life and things you know they would be interested to hear about. Remember that they might feel like they are missing out, so having this connection to the outside world could be a very positive thing for them during their incarceration.


Tell them about significant events in your life like birthdays and graduations. Let them know how your social and family life is going – like if you are dating someone new or a funny anecdote about how your child is driving you crazy.

