 This guide is mostly meant for those who already do this. If you wish to start ballet, make sure that you really want to and aren't just star-struck by the manga. Once you do start, work as hard as you can, like Masumi!;
, As long as you have the drive and the passion, you too can do this. Take as many classes as you can, audition for summer intensive programs in the like.


As difficult as this is to accept, there are some people which simply are not born with the physical capability to do well in ballet. If you are severely turned-in, have bad knees, or have pre-existing health problems, the pre-professional study of ballet may simply result in an excess of injuries and pain. It would be best to talk to your instructor to get an idea of your true potential, and to see whether or not it would be wise to dedicate so many years and loose many things, such as school and a real social life, to ballet.
 It would be helpful to exhibit similar qualities.
 Most of the dancers in SWAN are drawn with lithe, slim bodies and long legs. These proportions are ideal for ballet, however, do not try to develop unhealthy eating habits in order to attain them. SWAN is set in Japan, a country with a tradition of very sensible, healthy eating habits. Eating things like vegetables stir-fried in sauce, rice, lean proteins like fish and soy, green tea, and filling snacks like miso soup will ensure that you stay healthy and give you the important energy needed for your busy ballet schedule.
 She keeps her bangs down when she puts her hair in a bun, and often adds braids to her class hairstyle. However, it should be noted that most ballet schools do not like students to leave their bangs in their face when putting their hair up, as they can interfere with turning and partnering, and often get sweaty. If you wish to leave them down, and are allowed to, go ahead, but some might prefer to pin them back with a suitably girly hair clip instead.
 This look can be created by keeping your skin as clear and healthy as possible (see a dermatologist if necessary), and drawing attention to your eyes with mascara and eyeliner in colors like black, brown. or plum (whatever best suits your complexion).
 She often wears skinny jeans, cute sweaters with girly patterns on them, and simple sneakers or boots.


Masumi's aesthetic is the same regarding ballet gear -- she simply doesn't wear leotards with fancy crisscross straps. Nice leotards in solid colors are preferable, and will look more professional. Mirella and Bloch make fantastic ones. It would also be a good idea to invest in some nice warm ups, which Masumi wears a lot - she is drawn in track jackets, legwarmers, and skirts (Vol. 2), plus warmup overalls (Vol. 13). Track jackets can be found at American Apparel. Discount Dance has a nice selection of legwarmers and skirts. If you can afford them, warm-up overalls are also super comfy.







