 To allow your body to have a break from your birth controls, you can get a prescription for pills that will allow you to only have your period four times a year.That means that you get to go 12 weeks without your period, have your period for a week, and then go back to not having your period for another 12 weeks. This sort of menstrual cycle means that you will only have your period three or four times a year.
As with any other birth control, you must get a prescription for this sort of pill. The two common brands of birth control that allow you to skip your periods are Seasonale and Seasonique., When you decide to get a prescription for this sort of pill, you will need to begin taking it either on the first day or your period, or on the Sunday following the beginning of your period.


When you first begin taking the pill, make sure to also use other forms of birth control when you have intercourse during the first couple of weeks while your body gets used to the birth control you are taking. These other forms of birth control can include spermicide and condoms.
 Consume a single pill on a daily basis for 12 weeks. Try to take the pill at the same time each day so that you take a pill every 24 hours. When you miss a pill, your chances of becoming pregnant increase, so it is very important that you take your pills every day.Plan to refill your birth control prescription at least a week before you are done with your current pack so that you can begin your next pack as soon as this current pack runs out.
 When you take this kind of birth control, you will either receive a pack that contains 84 active pills, or four packs that contain 21 active pills each. After you take these pills for 12 weeks, you will take seven inactive pills for a week. During this time you will have your period.Depending on your body, your period may begin a day after you stop taking your pills, or a few days into your ‘inactive’ week.
 One drawback of taking these types of birth control pills is that you may experience breakthrough bleeding, which is when your body releases a small amount of blood. This breakthrough bleeding occurs most often during the first three months of taking this kind of birth control pill.You should call your doctor right away if you experience very heavy breakthrough bleeding, or if the bleeding continues for a long period of time.

