 Alaska Young is beautiful, and she is mysterious. She is a free-spirited person who is spontaneous. She is not a rigid personality, nor is she a conforming one.


You should be up for an adventure if you want to be like Alaska Young. Don’t be too into planning, don’t try to control everything, and generally be up for a fun time. Prank people in harmless ways. Alaska Young is known for her mischief.Alaska is described as impulsive. Sometimes this is a positive trait, leading to a sense of adventure, and sometimes this has reckless and negative consequences in her life. She doesn’t often think about the consequences before she acts. It can be important to do so.;
, Alaska is known for being outgoing and is always the first to come up with fun ideas. This could be smiling at new people, being inquisitive or being the leader of the conversation. Ensure that whatever you do is memorable.


Be creative. Pranks are a key part of the story, and Alaska is one of the main characters who comes up with the elaborate ideas for these.
If you're not sure whether pulling a prank is your idea of creativity then perhaps try to incorporate it into a different medium such as storytelling.
 Alaska stands up for her friends. When a teacher starts lecturing Miles, Alaska stood up and stuck up for him.


Alaska was a great friend. While undeniably moody, she was not afraid to help out her friends and not abandon them when they got in trouble. She was also very honest with them, making sure they knew how she felt about certain things.
Alaska also stands up for her beliefs. Just because you're friendly and flirty doesn't mean people should be able to walk all over you. For example, Alaska feels strongly about female rights so if you feel strongly about something and someone offends you, fight for your beliefs and get them to understand why you feel this way.
 Don’t give too much away. Alaska is mysterious and a bit self-destructive. She is also a confidante to her friends though. She has a caring heart. It’s just that she’s suffering inside.


She is considered unpredictable and wild. She’s a bit messed up. Alaska is considered the most complex character in the book. Her life is tinged with tragedy. Her ending is also tragic.
In one passage in the book, she refers to a labyrinth. You might consider Alaska a labyrinth. Her personality is complicated. Her emotions are too.
 Know how to party. Alaska Young is a flirt. She’s sexy, and she likes to smoke and drink. She is funny and loving, but she has an edge to her. She has intimate partners.


Alaska is said to smell of a mixture of vanilla and cigarettes.Alaska is the one who provides cigarettes and alcohol to her friends (be aware that in real life, this can come with risks. Follow the laws).
Although Alaska is known for smoking cigarettes, obviously you should be aware that doing so comes with health risks, such as lung cancer, and can also lead to premature aging.
Alaska is really using alcohol to drowned her suffering because of her mother’s death. She is full of guilt and blame, and she is an emotional person. In real life, you should find better ways to cope with suffering and pain than alcohol, which can lead to more problems. She loves drinking wine.

