 This will allow you the opportunity to rejuvenate and to restore harmony and balance. Answers and solutions to problems will soon unfold as you are guided by your own intuition and gut feelings.
 Being open to learning at all times is an aspect of maturity, as is avoiding intellectual laziness. By all means have plenty of fun in your life, but not at the expense of allocating sufficient time for reflection and careful consideration. Find a balance that leaves you whole.


Consider taking your formal education to another level. While this isn't the only path to maturity, it is one way in which you can learn a great deal from the vast store of learning that has already gone before you. This kind of learning is not something to be defensive about––there are so many amazing ways to learn nowadays that there is bound to be one method that suits the king of person and thinker that you are. Fill your mind with a variety of new information, or more importantly, educate yourself on the kinds of things that are going on in your life; psychology, housing, the career you want, or mechanics, nature, etc. The details in your life. What do you know about the things around you? How can you learn more about them?






Learn from others. Respect and learn from the wisdom of elders. Learn as much as possible from the experiences of the more learned and from those in older generations. These people possess knowledge about life that is often not obtainable from books or a formal education.
 Most mature behaviors tend to emanate through proper prefrontal cortex function and development. Ignite this area of your brain by practicing goal-setting in what you want to accomplish or change in your life.


Write down the goals in detail. Use this plan to direct the bigger decisions in your life. At the same time, stay flexible, acknowledging that even the best made plans need shifting when life's circumstances shift too. This latter part involves being resilient, something that mature people exhibit.
 This will allow you the opportunity to think clearly and ponder on matters you may find fascinating. Strive to find meaning early in your life. This will keep you focused and on track.
 Be gentle and kind to animals, plants and all of life. Treat all else like the way you would like to be treated.

