 Get the other person's e-mail address through your mutual friend. Contact the other person using a friendly tone. Don't ask for the phone number or make plans to meet right away. Exchange a few e-mails then politely ask if it would be okay for you to call to make plans to meet for a drink.;
, There are many ways of initiating relationships. There is no rule for who should make arrangements for when and where to go. In a heteronormative context, the man may choose two to three places to meet and ask the woman to choose among them, but it doesn't have to work this way. Regardless of your gender, you may like to make arrangements, or mutually discuss with the person who you're going on the date with about what you would both prefer.
 Set a specific day and time you will meet. Dress well for your date. Prepare a few questions you might ask in case there's a blank in the conversation. Some of these questions might stem from the email conversations you've been having.
 Remember, you don't know this person yet, and just because they agreed to go on a date with you doesn't mean they have to necessarily be the love of your life. Go to your date with the idea to have fun and get to know the other person, instead of testing whether they are a potential life partner. That way, you will probably feel more relaxed and conversation will be more fluid.
 Reserve a place to sit and talk, and avoid looking bored while you're waiting for the other person to arrive. Read a book, talk on the phone, or look at the menu (if it's a dinner date).
 Ask questions, but nothing too personal. Try to ask open-ended, engaging questions instead of one's which will just require a "yes" or "no" answer. Get to know them, smile and laugh a lot, and at least look like you're having fun, even if you're not.
 Don't mention anything about meeting again unless you really mean it. If there is really no attraction, then politely decline. Since there is a mutual friend involved, dragging something on could cause some problems.
 Plan for a friend to call you 45 minutes into the date. If its going terribly tell your date its an emergency and you have to go. If its going great just say you accidentally left something at your friends house and they were calling to see when you could get it. That way you don't have to sit through a terrible date.

