 Scene hair can either be short or long, but often the longer hair has a bit of volume to it. Scene hair has to resist being bland. It's one of the most important aspects of your appearance.


Dye it and/or put some color into it. Dye your hair black or blonde, or maybe both: blonde streaks inside a sea of black. Add flourishes of pink or purple to round out the look.
Tease and/or straighten it. Tease it (especially in the back) to add a lot of volume to your coiffure. Straightened hair is a must for those with curly or wavy hair. The straighter the better.
Don't shy away from hair extensions if you feel you need them. Some scenesters think that hair extensions are a must.
Add a little flourish like a hair band, beret, or flower, especially if it has some color.;
, Scene makeup is characterized by bright, daring colors contrasting with the ever-present black or dark-blue eyeliner. Maybe you have glittery eyeshadow; maybe you darken the outline of your eyebrows. Whatever you do, don't forget the eyeliner!


Your makeup is your big opportunity to "feminize" your appearance. Because dressing scene won't distinguish you too much from guys, don't be afraid to go a bit overboard here. Dramatic, bold makeup is definitely what's called for.
 Striped clothing is definitely in style, as is plaid (although try not to get too boring). Don't abuse the thrift store racks (you're not a hipster), but don't shy away from used clothes. Some different options that you might consider wearing:


Striped black and pink top; a tight pink skirt with a blue bandana wrapped around your waist; ripped electric blue leggings; and pink flats (ballet shoes work well).
Purple leopard print top; white overall shorts with the strap(s) undone; black tights; and scuffy, white slip-on Vans.
Handmade silk-screened band tee; skin-tight purple (or black) skinny jeans; pyramid stud belt (although they are slowly becoming too popular); and huge sunglasses.
 The accessories really complete the scene look, so be sure not to forget them. Oversized is really part of the fashion. Accessories include:


Sunny-Gs. Your sunglasses will come in two sizes: big and really big. In fact, the bigger the better. Aviator glasses are acceptable.
Jewelry. Bracelets, necklaces, body art, and piercings are all the rage. Stick with jewelry that has an edgy, ironic, or cartoonish feel to it.
Hats. Hats look great on scene girls (although not so much for scene guys). Choose big hats that don't necessarily match with the rest of your outfit. Special props goes to hats that no one has yet.
 Try Rue 21, Banana Republic, Aeropostale and even others similar. Don't try Hot Topic unless you search for musical merch or find some bright clothes. Scene people wear bright colors and preppy clothes. They don't wear dark clothes and pocket chains.

