 Do you want to be quiet and reserved? Funny and witty? Outgoing, smart, independent, kind, fearless? Make a list of at least 10 characteristics you would like to display the most and that represent your true self. When you're satisfied that you've homed in on the most true characteristics for yourself, start portraying them in your everyday life.;
, While it's important to not copy somebody completely, as social beings we are naturally creatures of imitation and striving to improve ourselves often includes following healthy and admirable examples. For example, if you admire somebody's sense of humor, you could incorporate their way of telling jokes into your way, melding the two until your own unique sense of humor comes to the fore with confidence.
 Remember, you are your own person and you have to be happy with who you've become and continue to become over the decades. If you aren't satisfied with yourself, it's okay to keep working on it. It's also okay to change every few years––it's how human beings keep on growing, learning and relearning.


Keep in mind that this process of bringing forth your true self won't happen overnight. It will take as long as you need it to, which is perfectly fine! In the end, the only validation of who you are that matters is your own.
 You are amazing just the way you are and negative criticism is both unhelpful and unkind. Let the negative remarks go in through one ear and right out the other. Does it really matter what people think of you? The people who really mean the most are those who stick by your side and respect and love you for who you are. However, this isn't to say that you can't learn from positive and constructive feedback about improving yourself––those you trust will sometimes be excellent sources of suggestions for ways to improve yourself that will help bring out your true talents and abilities.
 It's hard to stay true to yourself when everyone around you is influencing or pressuring you to be something or someone other than yourself. Choose your friends wisely. Be close with genuinely kind and nice people, not cruel or detracting ones. Make sure that your friends support and admire you for being yourself; if they don't, question their motives and the reasons for your friendships.
 Before anyone else can love you, you have to love yourself in a healthy way. Don't be too rough on yourself. Nobody is perfect, no matter how close they may seem. Every flaw you have makes you who you are and a "flaw" one day may be a "feature" some other day, as often it depends on context and finding your true direction in life. One bad day doesn't mean you're destined for a terrible life.


Be very careful about what you choose to do with your life. If you pursue a career that isn't aligned with your personality type and true inner talents, you may end up being miserable and constantly on the back foot. Take your time in working out what you are best at and don't commit completely to a career, job, vocation, etc., until you're one hundred percent sure it is right for you. This process may change again and again through your life, so expect to transform now and then.
 Learn to embrace your flaws––they are apart of you, and that won't change. Balance these by acknowledging and making the most of your features and putting your best self forward as much as possible. People will recognize the best in you when you acknowledge this yourself.

