 Diarrhea in ulcerative colitis happens when there is too much water in the colon because the stomach or small intestine secretes more fluid, or the undigested, liquid food passes quickly through the small intestine and colon and enough water is not absorbed from it.


Eating foods rich in soluble fiber can actually help absorb excess fluid in the bowel and act to firm up a loose stool. Just think of it as a sponge effect. Include foods rich in soluble fiber at least once in each major meal.Foods that are high in fiber include apples, beans, berries, figs, kiwi, legumes, mangoes, oats, peaches, peas, plums and sweet potatoes.
 Caffeine is not only found in coffee, but in other drinks such as energy drinks, carbonated beverages, tea, candies and chocolates.


Caffeine stimulates the gastrointestinal system to produce strong contractions and more bowel movements that can be seen even in healthy individuals. Additionally, its diuretic effect (condition in which the body gets rid of water through urination) can worsen dehydration caused by diarrhea.Aside from contributing to severe diarrhea, strong contractions can aggravate abdominal pain caused by the inflamed layers of bowel tissues in the digestive tract.
 Some people do not absorb fat normally, and this unabsorbed fat can make the small intestines and the colon give off more water that may result in watery stools.Normally, the colon absorbs water from the undigested liquid foods in order to firm up the stool. But if the small intestines and colon secretes more water, the colon cannot absorb all of the water from the undigested liquid foods, which now leads to diarrhea.
It is best to avoid fried foods, butter, cakes, junk foods, milk, cheese and other greasy foods.
 Sugar substitute such as sorbitol can lead to diarrhea because of its laxative effect. In order for sorbitol to exert its laxative effect, it must draw water into the large intestine, which stimulates bowel movements.


Artificial sweeteners are widely used in processed foods such as soft drinks, baked goods, powdered drink mixes, canned goods, candy, puddings, jams, jellies and dairy products.
 Secondhand smoke also contains nicotine which your child can inhale. The nicotine in cigarette smoke is a potent vasoconstrictor (constricts blood vessels).


Constriction of inflamed layers of bowel tissues in the digestive tract can further aggravate abdominal pain caused by inflammation or ulceration of the intestines.

