 Transferring money to another account with online banking is a quick and easy way to send money. You can only do this if you have access to online banking with your account. If you don't, you will be able to sign-up when you visit your branch, and might even be able to do this on your bank's website.


As well as making it easy to send money without visiting the branch, online banking allows to you access your account information anytime and set up and control your incomings and outgoings.
 To make a transfer online you will need to have some essential information about where you are sending the money. Given that you will already be logged in to your account, you will not need to identify yourself and provide as much information as you would if you were making the transfer in branch. Typically the account number and the ABA routing number (or sort code in the UK), will be sufficient.You may be asked to include a reference for the payment which is intended to enable to recipient to clearly identify it.
For example, if you are sending money to a flatmate for a bill, you might write "utilities bill" as the reference.
If you are in the UK and you use a "card reader" for online banking be sure to have this to hand, as well as the card for that account. You will need to use the reader if you are making a transfer to a recipient you haven't sent money to before., Once you have all the recipient details and are logged in to your account, click through to the transfer money section. Here you will be prompted to enter the information on the account you are sending the money to, as well as the amount of the transfer and the date you want it to be processed.


Be sure to double-check all the information. If you make a mistake when typing the recipient's account information you are not guaranteed to get the money back.If you have typed in the wrong account number, act quickly and contact your bank to stop the payment immediately., As people become more and more accustomed to and dependent on online banking, some banks are developing new services to make it even easier to pay by bank transfer online. One of these new services enables you send money just using the email address or mobile phone number of the recipient.


In theory, all you need to do is enter the amount you want to transfer and the recipient will get a text or an email which notifies them and provides all the information they need to obtain the money.