 First, let's tackle "Louis." The pronunciation here is similar to the way it is in English, but not identical. In French, "Louis" is said very quickly (almost as a single syllable). The result is that the "lou" sound at the start of the word becomes very short. For an English speaker, it's easiest to approximate this by simply shortening the word to "lwee."

, Give it a light W sound. Don't "dig in" with the W sound — try to keep your lips from pursing too closely In English, Ws almost never follow Vs, so this syllable can be a little counter-intuitive, but be patient and you should get it before long.


The I in Vuitton should have the same sound as the long E vowel sound in "squeeze." However, it should be very quick, so if it ends up sounding a little like the I sound in "thin", it's OK.
 This means that you basically only need to make an ordinary "O" sound (like in "low" or "so"). However, to sound truly French, you'll want to "nasalize" this vowel by pronouncing it partly with your nose.Try to keep your lips from pursing as they would in English when making the "O" sound. Instead, keep your mouth open slightly and your tongue in the middle of your mouth.


Try this easy test to see if you're saying "toh" correctly: put your finger just under your nose as if you're about to sneeze, then try saying the syllable. You should feel a tiny puff of air from your nose — this and many other French words use nasal sounds as part of their normal pronunciation., You're all ready to say "Louis Vuitton" like a native speaker. Follow all the rules above as you combine the syllables you've been practicing into one coherent whole. Your pronunciation of "Louis Vuitton" should sound a little like "Lwee VwitOH." Practice makes perfect, so don't be afraid to try saying it a few times on your own before you start saying it in public!


If you're having trouble, try listening to a French speaker say the words. If you don't know any, just use your preferred search engine to run a quick search for "Louis Vuitton French Pronunciation" — you should easily find at least a few helpful video guides.
 The instructions above will have you saying "Louis Vuitton" with a close approximation of an actual French accent, but they're not quite perfect. In French, the "ou" vowel combination can actually sometimes result in a sound that isn't used in English.For your pronunciation of "Louis Vuitton" to be perfect, you'll want to practice this vowel sound and use it in "Louis" in place of the English "oo" sound you may have been making before.


To practice this new "ou" sound, start out by saying the English "O" sound as in "glow" or "snow". Purse your lips close together — you're trying to look like you're drinking out of an invisible straw. Finally, without moving your mouth, start saying the English "E" sound as in "free" or "glee". The sound that comes out of your mouth should be a combination of "O" and "E" that sounds odd to English-speaking ears. This is the sound you'll want to use for "Louis!"

