 You can get some additional perks by joining a gym at the end of the month when the sales staff is trying to reach their monthly quotas. If you wait until the end of the month, you might be able to get free class passes, personal training sessions, or a discounted membership.Consider using free trials or working out at home until the end of the month.
 When you find a gym that you like, sit down with a member of the sales team and negotiate your membership. Let them know that you have been shopping around that you would like them to meet the fees of their competitors. If they cannot meet the price, ask for things like a free month of membership or if they would be willing to waive the initiation fee.You could also try to negotiate for things like free class passes or personal training sessions.
You might say things like “Gold’s membership is $20 a month less than yours. Can you meet that?” or “Since you won’t lower your monthly fee, can I get some free class passes?”

, When you are negotiating, ask about a discount for using the facilities during off-peak hours. If it works for your schedule, you may be able to use the gym at certain times for a discounted price. You will likely need to bring this up while negotiating since these rates are rarely advertised.For example, you might get a discounted rate for working out early in the morning, late in the evening, or in the middle of the work day.
Make sure the off-peak hours fit into your workout schedule. Shifting to a less convenient time can throw you off your fitness plan. It's worth it to pay full price if it means you'll actually visit the gym.
 Although paying for a yearly or monthly membership might appear to be a better deal, in the long-run, paying each time you go to the gym may save you money. Most people do not work out enough to make a monthly or annual membership affordable. Unless you have a history of regularly working out, a pay as you go approach may be the most cost effective.It may be best to pay as you go until you have developed a regular workout routine. Establish a regular workout regimen and then look into a membership. Most members do not go to a gym and many people quit their workout regimens after a few weeks.
Think of how the seasons fit into your exercise regimen. If you are an active cyclist, you may only need gym membership during the winter. If you want to get in shape for the skiing season, consider buying a membership just for the fall.
 Some gyms, like the YMCA, offer reduced fees based on things like your income, age, and family size. When you go to sign up, check to see if you are eligible for any type of discount. They will determine your rate using a sliding scale based on things like your household income and size.