 Dark spots, or discolorations, are one of the most common facial skin problems that people deal with. You want your skin to look even, so it's troublesome to deal with dark spots. Fortunately, there are ways to fix them. For spots, you'll need to add a spot treatment to your nightly skin care regimen. Each evening, dab a skin-correcting product to the discolored spots on your face.For dark spots, look for products that contain a retinoid. This chemical contains a lot of vitamin A, which will speed the correction of your problem areas.
 Wrinkles trouble many people, especially as they age. There are many products that can help reduce the appearance of fine lines, so be sure to ask your dermatologist or a skincare specialist for a recommendation. There are also some tips you can try that don't require products. For example, try sleeping on your back. This reduces pressure (and the formation of wrinkles) on your face.








Fine lines are very common around the eyes. One way to take care of these are to avoid squinting. Get some reading glasses if you find yourself straining to see. Also, make sure to wear sunglasses when you are out and about.
 Tired, puffy eyes are caused by a lot of things: crying, lack of sleep, allergies. Fortunately, there are also a lot of remedies for this common facial skin problem, and many of them are easy to do at home. For example, try cold spoons. Put a few metal spoons in your fridge and let them cool for about five or six minutes. Lay down and press the rounded side of the spoon (the side that does not hold food) to your eyelids until it becomes room temperature. Bonus: it also feels very refreshing!You can also use the same method with chilled sliced cucumbers. Rest the slices on your eyes for 10 minutes. Repeat with freshly chilled cucumbers as necessary.
 Pimples (or zits) are probably the number one facial skin complaint. When faced with a blemish, you should definitely avoid picking at it — that will only cause inflammation and possibly infection. Instead, try a dermatologist-recommended home remedy. Take one tablet of aspirin and crush it. Add a bit of water to make a paste. Apply the paste to your blemish, using a cotton swab. Let it sit for 10 minutes, then rinse with warm water.








Another simple remedy is to hold an ice cube on your pimple. This will reduce swelling and inflammation. Hold in place for about five minutes, or until the ice begins to melt.
Wipe some fresh lemon juice on your pimple and leave it there overnight. The acid in lemon juice makes it an excellent astringent, which can treat your blemish.

