 Place the nylon in a bucket and cover it with lukewarm water. Allow it to soak overnight, or for at least eight hours.


Soaking the nylon makes it easier for the dye to penetrate its fibers, and a long soak will ensure that the fibers are evenly drenched. With chemical dyes, warm to hot water is necessary, but room temperature water will suffice for food coloring dye.
 Add warm water to a large saucepan or stockpot until it is one-half to two-thirds full. Mix your chosen food coloring into this water, stirring until evenly combined.


Make sure that you have a large enough pot and enough water for the amount of nylon being dyed. Test the pot size before you add the water by stuffing the nylon inside. The nylon fill no more than one-quarter of the pot.
You will need about 1 qt (1 L) of water for every 1/4 lb (110 g) or less of nylon. For instance, if you are dyeing one pair of nylon stockings, 1 qt (1 L) of water will usually suffice.
The right amount of food coloring can be tricky to determine. For a vibrant color, you will need at least 10 drops for every 1 cup (250 ml) of water. Vary the amount as desired to lighten or deepen the shade.
 Add the nylon to the dye bath, making sure that it is completely submerged. The dye bath must be allowed to soak into all the fibers of the material.


Stir the nylon as it sits in the dye bath. You will need to stir it almost constantly throughout the entire dyeing process if you want to maintain an even color.
 Place the saucepan on the stove and heat it on medium until the dye bath reaches a temperature of 180 degrees Fahrenheit (82 degrees Celsius).The dyeing process is almost always triggered by heat, no matter what kind of dye you use. If you want the dye to be its brightest and most vibrant, this is the minimum temperature you will need the dye bath to reach. Do not allow the dye bath to reach a rolling boil, however.
 Pour a little white vinegar into the dye bath, mixing it in gently. Vinegar will help the color set into the nylon.


The amount of vinegar also varies based on the amount of water you use. As a general rule, use 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of white vinegar for every 1 cup (250 ml) of water in your dye bath., Turn the heat source off and remove the pan from the stove. Allow it to sit until the dye bath cools to room temperature. Do not remove the nylon during this time.


The water will be close to clear when the nylon is done dyeing. If you do not notice a change in the color of the water after 20 to 30 minutes, place the pan back on the stove and heat it again to reactivate the dyeing process.
 Take the nylon to a large sink and rinse it under warm, running water until the water runs clear., Gently squeeze the excess water out the material using your hands, but do not wring the material out since doing so can damage the fibers. Allow the nylon to sit out flat or hang in a warm location with good air circulation until fully dry.


You may need to gently stretch the nylon as it dries if you want the material to lie flat. If you allow the nylon to dry without stretching it, the end result will likely have wrinkles.

