 Understand what things are satisfying in your life. Avoid dwelling on the things and people that make you sad or feel unwanted. Consider taking some time to really assess what your passions are, and what things are interesting to you.Consider writing down the things that make you happy and the things that make you sad. Create two columns, and list at least five things that make you happy.
Create two columns of activities that you enjoy doing with others, and activities that you enjoy doing by yourself. Write down at least five things in each column.
Assess if there are ways to integrate the things that make you happy with the activities that you enjoy doing with others.
For example, let's say one of the things that makes you happy is spending time with your dog. And then, one of the activities you like to do is play sports with your friends. Consider taking your dog to a park with you and your friends to play sports.
 Avoid focusing on what you don't have or what's not satisfying in your social life. Instead, turn your thoughts to the people that care about you, and the things that you like about your life.Think about three positive things in your social life. They can even be small things.
For example, instead of thinking about how you didn't go to a classmate's party, think about the fun you had with a friend who came over to watch a movie with you.
Be hopeful about the future. Think about what you can do rather than what you can't to make things better moving forward.

Practice gratitude. Making a list of everything you are grateful for in your life may help you to feel more satisfied with your situation. This list may include small and large items, such as a good cup of coffee or a roof over your head. List as many things as you can think of to get started and then add three to five new items every day.
 Don't assume that other people don't like you just because they forgot to include you in something. Worrying about other people are thinking will likely create more stress. You may end up isolating yourself further from your social circle. This sort of thinking can become a vicious cycle.If you worry too much about what others might think, or that they may not like you, then you may end up missing out on opportunities to make more friends and have a better social life.
Avoid assuming the worst. Most people want to be open and friendly. It can just take time to find the right group.
 Believe that you can have a satisfying and fun social life. See yourself as worthy of friendship and deserving of happiness.It's okay to make mistakes. Anyone can look stupid at one time or another in front of others. Roll with it. Don't let social mistakes stop you from having a life.
Smile and engage with others in friendly conversation. Sometimes being confident is just about having short and friendly conversations that seem natural. Let those moments grow into better interactions with time.
Treat yourself with kindness and respect. And show the same to others.

