 Some primers are clear, which are great for people hoping to skin improve texture and help makeup stay put. If you have blotchy or uneven skin, however, you might want to use your primer as a color corrector. You can choose a primer in the same color as your foundation color to even out your skin, or use a specific color-correcting primer.Green makeup primer will reduce redness. Whether you have a sunburn or just struggle with an overly rosy complexion, the green will help balance the red.
If you have yellow undertones, apply a purple makeup primer to cancel these out.
Pink makeup primers work a little like blush by making your complexion look illuminated and healthy.
If you can see the bluish veins in your delicate skin, a yellow makeup primer will help cover these up.
A peach-colored primer will help cover up dark circles and hyperpigmentation.
 Using the wrong products on acne can make the problem worse, so it’s incredibly important that people with acne choose the right makeup primer. Primers with salicylic acid are great for people with acne because they actually work to reduce acne while you’re wearing it. Avoid products with added oils or fragrances, because these can irritate your skin. Look for products that are specifically labeled "non-comedogenic," which means they won't clog your pores.Oil-free and oil-absorbing primers are good choices for acne-prone skin because they will not block pores and aggravate the problem.
Primers with vitamins E and A can help heal and moisturize your skin.
 These products are well-labeled for the problem they address, luckily. If you want to blur these imperfections, look for bottles labeled with words like “pore-minimizing” or “poreless.” Some of these primers can be used alone while others work best in conjunction with foundations, so read the packaging carefully.If you have wrinkles or large pores, it’s important to see if your primer stands the test of time. A primer may look great at first, but then you’ll see your foundation settling into fine lines. The best primers will hold your makeup in place (and out of fine lines) all day!

