 All purpose flour is recommended, but you could use bread flour and any type of olive oil with the same results.;
, This step can also be completed in a bowl, but this is the traditional way, which can be much more fun.
 Crack the eggs into the flour well and begin scrambling them with a fork. Be careful not to spill the egg over the edge of the flour.
 Start to slowly add the flour into the egg while stirring gently. Incorporate the rest of the flour with your hands and mix thoroughly. If the dough is too dry, just add a small amounts of water at a time, until the right consistency is reached.
 Once the dough is mixed, begin to knead it with your hands. The kneading process is what helps form the gluten that gives the pasta its bite. Stretch the dough, then fold it over itself while pushing down with force.
 Wrap the pasta dough tightly with plastic wrap and let it sit for at least 20 minutes.
 Unwrap the dough and flatten it out with the rolling pin. Set the pasta machine to the widest setting, then press the pasta through it while turning the pins., Next, roll the pasta through the machine one time at each setting, narrowing the machine each time. After each roll, lightly flour the pasta sheet to prevent it from sticking. Then set the sheets aside and begin making the filling.
 Grab a medium sized bowl and put in the ricotta, Parmesan, egg, nutmeg, and black pepper. Stir the mixture gently to incorporate all the ingredients together, while being careful not to whip the egg. Set the mixture aside and cover with plastic wrap.
 Set the rolled out pasta on a flat surface, and use a pizza cutter to cut 2x2 inch squares. Once the pasta squares are cut, begin dabbing a teaspoon-sized amount of the filling into the middle of the square.
 Brush a small amount of water along the outside of the square and fold over across the diagonal to form a triangle. Next pick up the triangle and form it around your pinky, then press the two edges together tightly. Grab the triangular tip and fold it over the dough to form the final shape. Set all the formed tortellini into a pile and dust them with flour to prevent them from sticking together.
 Bring a large amount of water to a roiling boil and add one tablespoon of salt per quart of water, the water should be as salty as the sea. Add the tortellini to the boiling water and cook for two to three minutes until the tortellini begins to float. Remove the pot from the heat and strain the pasta.
 Many different sauces can be used for serving - it's your choice! Cream and tomato sauces work well, but simple olive oil and grated parmesan make for a delicious and authentic Italian meal.

