 After changes to your fish tank, such as a large water change, a thorough cleaning, or medicating your fish, a bacteria bloom can occur. If this describes what led to the cloudiness in your tank, then be patient. The bacteria will balance out in a few days, and the water should clear on its own., If your filters are not working properly, then the water can become cloudy. There is bacteria in your filtration system that consumes byproducts like ammonia and keeps things clean. If the filters stop working, the bacteria can build up in the water, making it look cloudy., If you had recently added new fish to your aquarium, make sure the tank set up can handle the additional fish. For example, if you just added a larger fish to a tank that had smaller fish, it might be too much for the filtration system. Add a different filtration system, or lessen the amount of fish in your tank., Overfeeding your fish can cause cloudiness in the water. Fish need to be fed sparingly. Feed them a light amount of food once a day, and give them one or two fast days a week., Sometimes, cloudiness can be caused by decorations. Make sure to wash all decorations carefully before adding them to the tank. Check all decorations in your tank to make sure they are designed for aquariums and purchased at good pet stores.Check for melting or misshapen decorations, softening or loosening decorations, or flaking paint or discolorations on decorations.
 Green algae clings to the sides of the tanks and sometimes to the decorative items in the tank. A good time to scrape algae from the sides is when you change the water. Use a soft plastic squeegee to gently scrape the side, then rinse under water to clean before taking another swipe. Remove all the ornaments and scrub under clean, running tap water.Make sure your tank doesn’t get too much light because that can cause algae growth. Don’t place your tank close to a window and only keep lights on for 10 to 12 hours a day.It is important not to overfeed your fish as leftover food can contribute to algae growth.

