 Look over at him when you’re in the same room and smile at him to let him know you’re friendly and that looking at him makes you happy. Don’t overdo it, but you can definitely catch his eye several times during a class, game, or party. You can shyly look away once you catch his eye, or keep up the eye contact.;
, Pick out a favorite outfit that makes you feel beautiful and comfortable so that you feel confident the next time you see him. Don’t feel like you need to wear “stylish” clothes that other people are wearing, because he may not even like or notice them, but he will pay attention when you feel comfortable and at ease.
 Experiment with how to wear your hair and makeup, but keep it simple and ultimately go with what you think looks great on you and makes you feel good. Always start by practicing good hygiene: shower and wash your hair, wear deodorant, and brush your teeth every day.


Wear your hair down or up in a ponytail or bun, or however you like to wear it best. Try playing around with curling or straightening it for a new look if you want.
Brush a little mascara on your eyelashes and apply some concealer or foundation to your skin if you want to cover up any redness or acne.
 Stand next to him when you’re in a group, and get close if you’re sitting next to him. You can even lightly touch him on the arm while you’re talking or give him a playful push if he’s teasing or joking with you.But pay attention to the signs he’s giving you. Some people don’t like others in their close personal space or feel uncomfortable with touch; it doesn’t necessarily mean he doesn’t like you.


If you don’t want to get too close or touch him, you can simply mimic his body language. If he crosses his arms, leans his head on his hand, or stands with his hands in his pockets while he’s talking to you, wait at least 20 seconds and do the same or something similar. This is a very subtle way to show you are paying attention and interested in him., Observe him to see what kinds of books he reads, music he listens to, or teams he follows. While he’s around, try reading a book by the same author or wearing a band t-shirt that you think he would like as a way of getting him to initiate a conversation before you do., Write him a sweet or funny note and slip it into his locker. You can leave it anonymous by signing it with a code name or word and tell him he has to figure out who it is through clues you give him in each letter. Stick with a simple joke or compliment in your letters if you don’t want to get too mushy or forward right away.

