 It is important to establish criteria for winning and losing before beginning so you don't get distracted during the game.


To avoid a dispute later, decide exactly what the rules are with your opponent before you start.
Some rules state that the staring contest is over as soon as someone blinks, looks away or laughs.
Other contests don't allow pulling funny faces or waving your hands in front of your opponent's eyes.;
, You won't be able to blink for a long time so it's best to try to get your eyes as moist as possible to start with. Take a nice long blink and close your eyes tightly right before the contest begins.
If you can, yawn to produce a few tears.
Avoid eye drops and face creams. Its best to steer clear of anything that might cause your eyes to itch or become irritated. This might cause you to blink.
All of these things will help your eyes avoid feeling dry and itchy during the competition.
 If you get uncomfortable or anxious you are more likely to get distracted or blink. If you can, sit or stand in a comfortable position.
Don't strain your eyes.
Don't focus too hard on the person before you.
 If you focus too hard on your opponent or winning you might make a mistake. Most people tend to stare, unblinking, off into space when they're lost in thought.
Think of a topic that you find deeply interesting, and turn all your mental energy toward that.
Don't let your mind wander too much, though, or you might find yourself looking away!

, This can help when your eyes start to feel dry. When you feel like you can't take the dryness anymore and you need to blink, squint a bit.
This will help bring some moisture back to your eyes.
Try to make this subtle. If you squint too much it can look like you've blinked.
 This can help you build up your time without blinking and avoiding distractions. If you keep losing staring contests, give it some practice.
Stare into the bathroom mirror, and time how long you can go without blinking.
Try for a longer time each time you practice.
 Being aware of your opponents weaknesses can help you win.


If your opponent is easily distracted, that can help you.
Know how long your opponent can go without blinking and strive to keep your eyes open at least that long.
Find out what makes your opponent laugh.
 Make strange faces or sounds.
Open your eyes very wide or squint.
Tell jokes to make them laugh.
Be careful that you don't start to make yourself laugh in the process, or you will lose!

, Try to make them look away or blink. Wave your hands off to the side to create a distracting motion.
Snap your fingers off to the side to distract them with sound.
Try dropping an object to get them to look away.
 Your opponent will likely try to distract you in similar ways. Think of something that makes you angry or sad. This will help to keep yourself from laughing.
Acknowledge when your partner does something funny, but refuse to allow yourself to react.
Avoid listening to sounds or other distractions.
Stare directly into the pupils of your opponents eyes to avoid looking at other parts of their face.

