 A "soft reset" simply refers to forcing the Kindle to restart. This is the first thing you should try if your Kindle is frozen or not working properly.;
, Before performing the soft reset, plug the Kindle into a wall charger. A lack of charge may be causing the problem.
 This will force the Kindle to turn off, regardless of whether or not it is frozen. On most Kindle Fire models, the Power button has the traditional Power icon. The 2012 Kindle Fire HD does not have an icon on the Power button.Make sure to press and hold the button until the screen turns off completely.
 Give the Kindle about 15 minutes to charge before trying to turn it back on again. If you know that it had a full charge, you can go ahead and skip this step.


If your Kindle isn't charging, there could be a problem with the charging cable itself. Try a different charger to see if you can get it to charge.
 Check to see if your problem has been fixed. If not, you may want to try a full factory reset.
 If you are having continuous problems with your Kindle Fire that a soft reset is not fixing, you may want to try a factory reset. This will delete all of the data on the Kindle Fire and restore it to its factory default state. This will fix most problems that aren't related to failing hardware.


It's also a very good idea to perform a factory reset if you are giving away, selling, or recycling your Kindle Fire. This will help prevent your private information from falling into the wrong hands.
 Performing a factory reset on your Kindle will delete all of your data on it. Back up anything important on your Kindle Fire to your computer or a cloud storage service. Anything you've purchased from the Amazon App Store will be able to be re-downloaded.
 You won't be able to perform a factory reset if your battery has a low charge. You can quickly fix this by plugging the Kindle Fire into its charger and then proceeding.


If your Kindle isn't charging, there could be a problem with the charging cable itself. Try a different charger to see if you can get it to charge.
 You can open this menu by swiping down from the top of the screen.
 This will open your Kindle Fire settings.
 You will be prompted to confirm that you want to reset the device and delete all of the data.
 The factory reset process will take a few minutes to complete, and your Kindle Fire will reboot when it is finished. When the Kindle Fire reboots, it will start up as if it is being started for the first time.
 Proceed through the initial setup and log in with your Amazon account. This will restore all of your purchases and settings., Test out your newly-reset Kindle to see if the problem remains. You should notice better performance when using the device. If the problems you are experiencing keep occurring even after a factory reset, you'll likely need to contact Amazon Support about getting a replacement device.


See How to Contact Amazon for instructions on getting in touch with Amazon Support.

