 One common use of altars is to honor and remember a religious figure, or a deceased relative, friend, or historical figure. Some of these are dedicated to multiple people, such as a deceased friend and his patron saint.


In some traditions, these are called shrines instead of altars.
 Unless you belong to a religious denomination that does not allow images of the divine, place an image of the person or people you are honoring in a prominent location on the altar, such as on a high stand at the back of the altar. You may wish to include several images, representing different sides of the honored person. For instance, a photograph of the person at her wedding and a photograph of her with her family.
 Display objects on the shrine that remind you of the person being honored. This can be gifts they gave you, objects they enjoyed in life, or objects that represent what they did in their profession, hobbies, or personal life.


If you are honoring a religious figure, research what objects they are associated with online. Patron saints, deities of polytheist traditions (Greek, Hindu, Roman, Egyptian, etc.), and most other religious figures have many objects or actions associated with their worship.
 Place candles around the edge of the altar so you can light them in memory of the person, or in honor of the religious figure. This is a common and simple ritual used in many places around the world.
 You may wish to keep a bouquet of flowers on the altar, and think of the person every time you replace them with a fresh bouquet. Alternatively, grow flowers in a pot at the altar's base, or keep dried flowers as permanent decorations.
 Keep a plate and cup on the altar, and provide your deceased friend's favorite food and drink on holidays or important occasions. After leaving it on the altar for the length of the meal, you can share it among your friends or give it to those in need.
 Change your altar however you wish to help you honor the person and live by his ideals. If that person belonged to a different religion than yours, consider adding a symbol of that religion as well. If the altar appears too somber for your needs, add brightly colored scarves or other objects to make it a happier place to remember your friend.

