 Disturbances in the concentration of this organic compound in the body have many clinical manifestations that are well documented by experimental observations on laboratory animals. These experimental clinical manifestations of the abnormal concentrations of this neurotransmitter in the body of humans were also corroborated by similar findings in human samples that were used to see the effects of this neurotransmitter on the performance of their nervous system. These clinical findings are considered nowadays well established diagnostic tools for disorders that involve changes in the concentration of this neurotransmitter in the body.;
, On the biochemical level of metabolic pathways for the synthesis of this compound in the neurons of the nervous system also disturbances in the biochemical synthesis of this organic material are also well established and are used clinically to design pharmacological drugs to treat these metabolic abnormalities in the biosynthetic pathways of this important neurotransmitter in the nervous system of the human body.
 Due to its extremely significant clinical effects on the body of humans, this material and its originating neurons within the basal ganglia of the human brain are the subject of intensive scientific research at both the synthetic as well as on the biological levels. The various receptors of this neurotransmitter along the neurons of the nervous system have been extensively studied. The results show that this compound has distinct clinical effects on the performance of the brain at the cognitive level as well as clinical effects at the other physiological levels such as its effects on the neurons in the brainstem that are concerned with the sensations of hunger and sexual desire. All these supposed clinical effects of this neurotransmitter were observed experimentally in all patients with excessive amount of this neurotransmitter in their body. The neuronal structure in the brain of humans that is called the basal ganglia was found to be the main source of this compound in the brain of humans.
 The secretion of this neurotransmitter is performed by specialized cluster of neurons that is clinically called the substantia nigra. This nucleus of neurons within the basal ganglia of the brain is presumed to be the main source of this neurotransmitter in the brain of humans. Biochemical disturbances in the function of the cells of this anatomical structure of the basal ganglia show strong associations with psychiatric disorders such as Parkinson disease and schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder that is a major health issue in the practice of mental health medicine.
 A large number of population in the world suffer from this debilitating and potentially progressive mental disorder. This psychiatric disorder has clinical manifestations that usually interfere with the normal life of the affected persons. This is so due to the severe mental disturbances which are usually associated with this disorder.
 For example cognitive ability of most schizophrenic patients is severely diminished by the effect of dopamine excess in their body. These patients can sometimes show behavior that is very odd due to its being of illogical coherence. Detachment of thinking processes from the real conscious world is often observed in these patients. Psychotic episodes of irrational and completely illogical behavior are also well established in patients of this type of mental disease. This psychotic thinking in these patients shows strong association with the level of the neurotransmitter dopamine in the body of these patients. It is well established today that excessive amounts of this compound in the body are the direct result of the psychotic symptoms and the other symptoms that are also observed such as increased sexual desire and increased appetite for food. On the level of low dopamine concentration in the body the clinical symptoms are entirely different.
 Dopamine is a known inhibitory neurotransmitter. This fact is observed for example in Parkinson disease where the deficiency of this compound in the brain removes the inhibitory effect of this neurotransmitter on the body. Therefore clinical symptoms such as tremors of the extremities are often observed in patients that suffer from Parkinson disease. This state of dopamine deficiency in the brain can also be triggered by the effect of pharmacological drugs that are used to treat schizophrenic patients and to treat people who have episodes of psychotic thinking such as auditory and visual hallucinations. Also this type of neuroleptic drugs is often used to treat cognitive dysfunction such as the presence of ideas of reference and grandiose thinking of these patients.
 Examples of pharmacological drugs that are used to treat schizophrenic patients include the commercially available drugs of Zyprexa and Perphenan. These two types of drugs share the common pharmacological effects of antagonizing the effects of dopamine in the brain.

