 They will appreciate your conviction to either animal welfare, healthy eating, or whatever reason you may have.;
, Go to the grocery store and check out some of the meat substitutes. There are some incredible things like “Vegan Roasts” and “Soy-rizo”, that unless you look for, you might never know exist.
 Things that a vegetarian might eat as main dishes (nuts, vegetables, cheeses, fruit) might be side dishes for the family and bought less often.
 It may sound tricky, depending on the restaurant cuisine, but with creativity, there's a lot of food choices out there. Appetizer salads, vegetarian chilli, or veggie burgers are some examples. Several fast food restaurants offer vegetarian-friendly items, such as Taco Bell with their bean burritos or Mexican Pizza (omit the meat and cheese) or Burger King with their "BK Veggie". Always feel free to ask the person at the counter, a manager, or the waiter for vegetarian menu choices.
 Examples of this include build your own burrito/tacos, using items like beans, veggies, and cheeses as vegetarian proteins, but things that the whole family will enjoy. It is also fun to do a build your own pizza night, because, like burritos and tacos, 95% of the ingredients are something that everyone can eat. Soups are also a great example as there are plenty of amazing vegetarian soups that are easy to make (or buy!). Broccoli and cheese, hot and sour, minestrone, lentil, and tomato bisque all are enjoyable to both carnivores and vegetarians. Creative salads that use fruits, nuts, and cheese are easy to make and delicious. If they are really attached to their chicken, beef, or pork, it can always be cooked separately and added later on.
 Get into doing your own grocery shopping. This creates a balance between yourself, as a vegetarian, and your needs. Create a separate space in the pantry, freezer, and refrigerator for your own food. This way, if you want to eat a grilled cheese sandwich for lunch or a cream of mushroom dish with pasta, it's available to you. Even if you have no skills in the kitchen, whoever the chef may be, will appreciate your suggestions and help. Post a list of meal suggestions on the refrigerator to help remind the family that you aren’t just refusing to eat meat, but are helping with dinner ideas.
 Faux meat has the same texture and looks as regular meat, but uses a textured soy protein. You may be more relaxed as far as planning meals for yourself for a day in the week.
 Seitan is a great substitute for meat eaters, try it as a meat replacement in BBQ. Tempeh, if seasoned correctly, can be an amazing replacement to ground beef. Try cooking with peppers, onions, and spices like blackening seasoning to create a tasty and healthy alternative in tacos or even lasagnas. Look up recipes online (or in cookbooks), and check out the comments from people who have tried them with the meat eating friends and family.

