 This might be the easiest bit in this venture. Leveling up is achieved by going through the main quests, going on daily quests through dungeons and missions, and killing the monsters spawning in the map. You can also use Monster XP Books, normally acquired by completing quests of all kinds or by buying it in the online store with real money.;
, The easiest way to Navea is a nearby Warp Portal. It’s found in a secluded area and is a circular stone slab with a decorated teardrop-shaped blue crystal floating above it. Click the large floating crystal and you’ll see a selection of places to go to. At the very top is Navea, so click on that and go!


Warp Portals can be found on the world map as a blue wing icon in a white circle.
If you fancy going the long way to Navea to gather supplies and explore, head back to Crescent Hill using the portal in Brevis, then head northeast. Or just click on the quest conditions on the lower right menu on your screen to automatically run there.
 Head to the church, which is found in the northernmost area of city. You can also take the portal to the church instead of walking. It’s found in the Trade District, just directly east of the fountain. It’s a circle on the ground with a glowing gold symbol floating above it, and it takes you just south of the church itself.
 After you enter the church, go up to the Bishop and click him. Press “Continue” in the dialogue options as he reveals some more storyline exposition, and wait until he prompts you with a quest. Accept the quest, then leave the church.
 After the enlightening conversation with the Bishop, head to the Barracks, which is at the far northwest of town near the church. Look for Andre up the steps of the building. He’s the familiar-looking red-haired man in armor, though it’s a bit obvious with the gigantic quest marker above his head that he’s the one to talk to.
 After initially speaking with him to trigger the quest rewards sequence, he’ll talk to you for a bit and offer you some exposition, and a short cutscene will trigger. It’s mostly just floating text with some offered exposition, but you can’t skip the sequence either, so just stay put for a few seconds.
 After that scene, you’ll finally be able to pick your subclass! All the available classes are right there for you to pick, with some classes able to combine their skills for your character to use! For the Bard, the Sorcerer (Grimoire), Wizard (Staff), and Ranger (Bow) have three skills each when you decide to subclass them. They’re unlocked in your Envoy’s Path, so feel free to mess around with it and take the skills you need!

