 Succulents and cacti need well-draining soil. You can purchase cactus soil that is already mixed. Put your succulent or cactus in a pot with drainage holes then put it in the cactus soil. If you want to put your succulent or cactus in something besides a regular pot, layer the bottom of the container with pebbles before you put the plant and soil inside. , Succulents and cactus can go a long time without water, but they do need water to survive and grow. Water your plants only when the soil is completely dry, to avoid killing it by overwatering. It is better to under-water cacti than it is to overwater them. Pour the water on the soil, not on the plants itself, to avoid rot. , Succulents and cacti do best in bright indirect sunlight. Experiment with different spots near windows to see where your plants thrive. If you notice your plants withering, meaning the leaves look yellow or transparent, move them to a brighter spot. Make sure your plants are not getting sunburned from too much light. In the northern hemisphere, succulents tend to burn near south facing windows. You can move your plants to an east facing window if they are getting too hot. , Succulents like to be warm in the summer (between 70° and 80° Fahrenheit, or 21°-27° Celsius) and cool in the winter (between 50° and 60° Fahrenheit, or 10°-16° Celsius). Most succulents can handle temperatures higher or lower than that, but don’t let the plants get below freezing. If you keep your plants next to a window, you probably won’t have to worry about the temperature too much. , Because you are growing plants indoors, you probably don’t have to worry about bugs too much. If you don’t use a well-draining soil mix and don’t let your plants dry out completely between watering them, you might get gnats (very small flies). Another bug that likes to attack succulents is mealy bugs (white, fuzzy bugs with many legs). If you notice any mealy bugs, spray your plants with rubbing alcohol and pour rubbing alcohol over the soil to kill any eggs. 