 You can use a simple, gentle facial exercise to stimulate circulation in your cheeks and make the skin look more radiant and more full. No extra fat or skin will actually develop, but your narrow cheeks may look chubbier if you practice this exercise daily.Sit tall. Sit in a chair with your back straight. Pull down the shoulder blades and relax your shoulders overall, making sure that there is as little tension as possible in that area of your body. Your chest should be outward and open.
Open your mouth lightly. Imagine that you are carrying a normal conversation with someone at low to moderate volume. Open your mouth to the position you might usually have during such conversations. At this point, you must also curl both your lower and upper lip inward so that they cover your front row of teeth.
Simultaneously, you should pull the corners of your mouth back, bringing them as close to the molar teeth as possible. Both corners should be pulled back in the same direction and to the same level or vertical position of your face. Your chin should move forward slightly, as well.
Hold the face you have just made for a full 90 seconds. You should feel the muscles in your cheeks and mouth stretch. Release slowly to a normal resting face when done.;
, Small pinches likes this may not make your cheeks plumper, but this practice can give your skin a naturally blush, making your cheeks look brighter as a result. Brighter cheeks look plumper to the naked eye than pale ones do.
 Use a facial lotion or moisturizing cream on your cheeks after every shower and every time you wash your face. Let it dry naturally and do not rinse it off.


If possible, look for an emollient cream. These creams are specially formulated to soothe the skin, so your cheeks will be moisturized and any chapping or damage they have gone through can also be remedied.
Even if you shower in the morning, it is a good idea to apply more moisturizing cream at night just before going to bed.
 Combine 1 cup (250 ml) of melted shea butter with 3/4 cup (185 ml) granulated sugar until evenly mixed. Refrigerate this mixture until it becomes a solid, then apply it to your face after rinsing the skin with warm water. Leave it on for five minutes before rinsing it off with warm water.


Make sure that you apply the scrub using gentle circular motions. You should also pat the skin dry with a soft towel when done.
Shea butter is high in fatty acids, so it can help improve the elasticity of the skin on your cheeks. As a result, the skin looks younger and fuller.
The sugar is a gentle exfoliant, so it can scrub away dead skin cells on your cheeks that would otherwise make the skin look dull and gaunt.
 Apples contain many nutrients and vitamins that benefit your skin, so eating them and applying them topically can work wonders. This fruit contains antioxidants, as well as vitamins A, B, and C, and all of these elements can help prevent tissue damage and wrinkles. Apples also contain collagen and elastin, which keep your skin looking soft and plump.


Red Delicious and Granny Smith apples are your best choices, followed by Braeburn apples.
Cut one whole apple into chunks and use a potato masher or handheld blender too mash it into a sauce-like consistency. Apply this apply mush to your cheeks using gentle, circular strokes. Leave it on for 50 to 60 minutes before rinsing with warm water. Repeat daily.
Another way to make use of the benefits of apple is by making a special apple drink. Combine three slices of apple with three baby carrots and 1/2 cup (125 ml) lemon juice. Blend until mixed evenly. Drink this juice every morning until you notice results.

The potassium in carrots can help prevent the skin from becoming dry, and this vegetable also has anti-inflammatory properties that can revitalize and tone the skin. Carrots also provide more antioxidants and more of vitamins A and C.
Lemon juice provides your skin with additional doses of vitamins A, B, and C, as well as other antioxidants.
 Apply aloe vera gel directly to your cheeks, rubbing it into the skin using gentle, circular motions. Do this roughly 30 to 60 minutes before you shower. Repeat daily.


Alternatively, you could drink one 8 oz (250 ml) glass of aloe vera juice each morning until you notice results. Make sure that you drink food grade juice only.
Aloe vera reduces inflammation and promotes increased elasticity of the skin.
 This combination should be used on a nightly basis, just before bed. Both glycerin and rose water have properties that can benefit and nourish the skin of your cheeks.


Glycerin keeps the skin hydrated and can regulate the rate at which skin cells shed.
Rose water can help calm irritated skin and hydrate dry skin. It also has mild antiseptic properties, so it can keep the skin on your cheeks looking clean and healthy without drying it out or agitating it.
 Honey helps your skin in several ways. When used topically, honey acts as a humectant, attracting and trapping moisture by the skin. As a result, the skin looks healthier and plumper. When consumed or used topically, the antioxidants it contains can also protect the skin from irritants and bacteria.


One of the simplest ways to use honey is to look for an organic or natural face pack with honey listed as an ingredient. These packs can work even better if they contain milk cream or yogurt.
Another way to use honey is to consume 9 Tbsp (15 ml) each day.
You can make your own honey-based pack, as well. Mix 1 tsp (5 ml) honey with 1 tsp (5 ml) papaya paste. Apply this pack to your cheeks and let it sit for 10 minutes before rinsing it off with lukewarm water.
Another honey remedy to try can be made and consumed as a breakfast food. Mix together 1 cup (250 ml) milk, 1 tsp (5 ml) softened butter, 1 tsp (5 ml) honey, 2 tsp (10 ml) shredded cheese, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) oats. Eat this in the morning, drinking it with orange juice.

Milk and other dairy products are believed to hydrate the skin and soothe both irritation and redness, thereby improving the skin's appearance.
Oats can alleviate dryness and irritation of the skin.
The vitamin C in orange juice can help prevent wrinkles and make your skin look younger.
 Your skin naturally produces its own oils, and these natural oils can keep your skin looking moist, fresh, and healthy. Cheeks with skin that have a healthy glow naturally look chubbier. If your body does not get the oil it needs, however, your skin will suffer, and your cheeks will look narrower.


Get oil into your diet. Cook with a healthy, beneficial oil, like olive oil. You could also eat healthy nuts on a regular basis.If you decide to apply oil topically, you can do so by gently massaging a healthy oil into the skin of your cheeks after washing and exfoliating your face. Use an oil like coconut oil, olive oil, almond oil, or avocado oil.
 Namely, you should avoid smoking and drinking since both activities cause your skin to lose elasticity. As skin loses elasticity, it becomes less flexible and takes on a sharper appearance, which will only make your cheeks look more narrow.


You should also avoid any product or food containing turmeric powder. Many claim that this spice makes the skin look dry.
Put sunscreen on your face to protect the skin from harmful ultraviolet rays. Sun-related damage can dry out the skin, making your cheeks look gaunt and leathery.
 Use a clean, high-quality makeup brush to apply a shimmery powder blush over your cheekbones and brow bones. Brush it on lightly and use it with your usual makeup. The shimmer will catch the light and deceive the onlooking eye into seeing a plumper, more youthful cheek.


Avoid using cotton balls, tissues, or mini brushes to apply this blush. These utensils can create an uneven look, and as a result, the blush may not catch the light correctly.
 Make sure that any makeup you apply during the day is removed at night with a cleansing cloth or other makeup remover. Products specifically labeled for facial use or for the removal of makeup work best.


When you can get away without wearing makeup, do so. Keeping makeup off your face for a day or two gives the skin more of a chance to "breathe," and as a result, the skin of your cheeks will ultimately be healthier.
Similarly, you should also avoid wearing heavy liquid foundations and creams, since these can smother your skin more than powders or mineral blushes and foundations do.
 Depending on how much fat you have elsewhere in your body and what the structure of your face is like, you might be able to quickly get chubby cheeks by moving fatty tissue directly to your face.


The procedure is long-lasting. Usually, about 60 percent of fat transferred to the cheeks will survive. Fat cells that survive the transfer continue to survive like any other fat cells in the body will, and it will behave as it did when located in its original donor area of the body.
 Fat grafting or Sculptra injections take a little longer, but the procedure is less invasive and might last longer. Small amounts of real or synthetic fat are gradually injected into layers of the cheek using a fine needle. You will need several procedures before you get the chubby cheeks you desire.


Sculptra injections are generally tolerated well and come with a low risk of complications. Fat grafting and silicone injections can be a bit riskier, though.
Note that you may need to get further treatments after a few years. Such is the case with Sculptra, which often needs replacement after two years.

