 Though you love your partner and want to make them happy, don’t forget that you have to be happy as well. If you feel uncomfortable with something they have done or said, make it known to them and discuss ways to address the issue. Though you want to have flexibility with your partner, you don’t want to have tons of gray area about what is okay and what is not.For instance, perhaps you are uncomfortable with your partner staying out past 2AM. Discuss this and find ways to resolve it so that you two can have mutual comfort, respect and fun.
 Make sure that you are regularly telling your partner that you appreciate them for the various nice things that they do for you, or just for the person that they are. People who feel respected, loved, and appreciated are more likely to continue displaying such positive behavior, and your relationship will thrive because of it., Kindness and affection are vitally important to keeping a relationship happy and healthy. Always be loving and nice to your partner and show them you care by helping them out and perhaps giving them small tokens of your affection.Do nice things like cooking or cleaning for them.
Offer to watch their choice of movie half of the time.
 Communicate regularly, openly and honestly with your partner. Truly listen to them when they speak and don’t use your phone when they are talking about something serious. Avoid accusing them or insulting them, but instead use “I” statements to describe how you feel., A relationship cannot be truly healthy unless there has been trust established. Rather than making your partner “earn” your trust, give it to them freely until they break it or behave suspiciously. If such behavior occurs, then you can reassess. Work to be a trustworthy and dependable person, as well.
 Though you may give everything to your relationship and work towards building a truly healthy partnership, sometimes that will not be enough. Make sure that you know your limits and that you recognize the signs of abuse so that you can get out of a toxic situation.


If your partner ever hits you, this should be an indicator that you need to leave.
If your partner tries to isolate you, manipulate or control you, get out of that relationship.

