 This is a great way to get her attention and make a connection before walking over. Try to catch her eye from across the room, or even as you're walking up towards her. When she sees you and makes eye contact, don't look away. Give a little smile and hold her eyes for 2-3 seconds.


A warm smile and eye contact are the simplest and most effective form of flirting you have. They will put both of you at ease and make conversation much easier.
This is important even if you already know the girl. A smile and eye contact puts people at ease.;
, The best pick-up line you have is "hey." Just be yourself and say hello. Pick-up lines come with all sorts of pressure and memorization, and they are as likely to backfire as work. Unless you're naturally witty and can come up with something clever on the spot, just walk over and say hello.


"Hey, how are you?"
"Hi, can I buy you a drink?"
"Hello. Mind if I sit here?"

, Say who you are and ask her name in return. Keep it calm and casual for now, no matter what you goals are (making a new friend, a date, asking a question, etc.). Girls get hit on all of the time, so don't give off a romantic vibe right off the bat unless you want to be batted away. Keep the conversation friendly and relaxed with a normal introduction.


"It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm ______."
"Hi, my name is _________. What's yours?"
"I'm ______. What's your name?"

, Known as the "Ben Franklin Effect," it turns out that people like you more when they do a favor for you. This weird little paradox is a great way to break the ice. You could, for example:


Ask her to watch your bag or stuff for a moment.
Ask her to pass the salt, napkins, etc.
Ask her opinion to settle an argument, get directions, etc., Confidence is key, but if you don't have it you can always fake it until you make it. Exuding confidence is all about body positioning and language, so just remember these tips until they come naturally:


Keep your shoulders back and your chin up.
Your spine should be straight and upright at all times.
Make eye contact when talking or listening.
Talk slowly and clearly -- you're in no rush to get the words out.
Sit tall, with your feet firmly planted on the ground.
Resist jittery movements, tics, or constant movement., If you walk up to a girl and say "hey," then get rejected, you've actually lost very little. She goes her way, you go yours, and life moves on. But if she says yes, you've started a potentially lasting and wonderful relationship. Think of conversing with girls as a low-risk, high-reward situation to get over your butterflies.