 A parry is a counter blow that is intended to disarm or deflect a strike coming your way.Parrying requires quick reflexes, but when executed well, it can take the fight out of your opponent more quickly than a simple block.


A parry can take the form of a jab, hook, or a close quarters strike. The parry you employ will be decided by circumstance and reflex, though most will be short distance strikes to a vulnerable part of your opponent's attacking extremity, making use his oncoming force to do damage.
 The stance of your opponent will telegraph important information to you, allowing you to respond co-occurringly with the blow as your assailant strikes. When you feel in danger of violence, take note of:


Which foot is leading and following, as a punch is usually thrown from the same side as the back foot.
The rotation of the body, as it has a tendency of rotating in the direction from which the attack is coming.
Any tensing, especially clenching of the fists, as this will be a good indicator that a blow is soon to come., If you aren't an experienced fighter, you will likely be unaware of what kind of strike will be launched by your aggressor. Chances are, it will be a simple punch directed at your head, though this is not a guarantee. For an effective parry, you will need to commit to a counter-strike in the space where the blow is most likely to pass through.An excellent, and debilitating target, is the bicep muscle. Too often in combat, opponents regard the head as the main target, but the limbs are very susceptible to damage, and a strike to the bicep can leave your assailant's arm crippled for the rest of the fight.
The inside of the elbow joint will also be vulnerable when your aggressor extends his arm to try and land his blow.
 Especially if you are inexperienced, you should always exercise caution when practicing self-defense, but to most effectively train parrying, you'll need a partner. Have your partner make strikes at you in slow motion following in as natural a way as possible. As his blow approaches, strike his extremity in such a way as to stop or deflect the blow.


Once you have the motions and your strike targets well practiced, you can speed up this drill, but be sure to do so with restraint. Neither you, nor your partner, should come into contact in such a way that you harm each other.
To improve reflex time, try training on a speed bag or double end bag, pick up a reflex oriented ball sport, like racquetball, and train with a reflex ball., Though this might not be the most elegant approach, it is highly effective. It takes a great deal of energy to throw a strong punch, and by slapping away your aggressor's fist to either side of your body, you will tire him out while keeping yourself safe.