 Place the saucepan on the stove over medium heat and let the butter melt completely.


Proceed to the next step as soon as the butter is melted. Do not allow too much smoking or sizzling to occur after the butter melts.
You could also use a medium skillet instead of a small saucepan.
Note that this version of beef gravy can be prepared even if you do not cook a roast or other cut of beef. As such, it is perfect for use with mashed potatoes or pre-cooked beef dishes.
 Add the chopped onion to the melted butter in the saucepan and stir continually for several minutes.


Use a heat-resistant flat spatula to stir the chopped onion.
Cook the onion for 2 to 3 minutes or until it becomes tender and translucent. Do not let the onion brown or burn.
 Add the remaining 2 Tbsp (30 ml) butter to the pan and let it melt. Immediately after it melts, stir in the 1/4 cup (60 ml) of flour.


The combination of butter and flour, or flour and any other fat, is referred to as a roux. This is an essential component of forming a thick gravy or sauce.
Make sure that the onion, butter, and flour are thoroughly mixed. There should be no visible clumps of flour remaining.
 In a separate dish, combine boiling water and beef bouillon granules. Stir the granules into the water until dissolved.


You could use 3 beef bouillon cubes instead of 3 tsp (15 ml) beef bouillon granules, if desired.
 Slowly stir the beef-flavored liquid into the butter, flour, and onion in the saucepan. Whisk the ingredients in as you pour to prevent lumps from forming.


If you cannot pour and whisk simultaneously, alternate back and forth between pouring a little of the liquid in and stirring the liquid into the roux.
Try to maintain a smooth consistency as you add the liquid.
 Bring the gravy to a boil over medium heat and let it cook for several minutes.


Stir the gravy occasionally as it cooks.
Do not cover the saucepan.
 Ladle the gravy into a gravy boat or other serving dish. Serve alongside the rest of your meal.
