 Even if you're eating enough food every day, it's possible you're not eating the right kinds of food. Dietary deficiencies are one of the most common causes of low energy levels, and protein in particular plays a big part in your daily energy levels.Protein is essential for increased energy levels.But not all protein is good protein. Some meats, for example, are high in protein but also come with high sodium or saturated fat levels.Medical professionals recommend that adults consume at least eight grams of protein for every 20 pounds of body weight (or 0.8 grams of protein for every kilogram of body weight) every day.Optimal sources of heart-healthy protein include salmon,eggs,and legumes like beans, lentils, and tofu.;
, Starches and carbohydrates are an essential part of a healthy diet. They provide us with energy to complete all manner of activities, from running to breathing.But there are good carbs and bad carbs, and if you're feeling fatigued it's important to choose healthy carbohydrates that will help fuel your body throughout the day.Eat four to eleven servings of grains each day, and opt for whole grain foods instead of processed or refined grains.Whole grain or wholemeal sources of starch and carbohydrates release energy gradually throughout the day, helping you feel more energetic. Choose whole grain, complex carbohydrates rather than simple carbs, which can cause an energy crash shortly after eating.Some sources of energy-boosting, complex carbohydrates include vegetables, legumes, and whole grains like bran and germ.Choose breads and pastas made from whole grain whenever possible., Fats act as a source of energy as your body begins to run low on carbohydrates. Your body needs some dietary sources of fat, but it's important to choose the right kinds of fat.


The four basic forms of fats are monounsaturated fatty acids, polyunsaturated fatty acids, saturated fats, and trans fatty acids. Of these, saturated fats and trans fats are the worst fats.Choose a diet high in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids for more energy and a healthier heart.Some heart-healthy sources of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats include seafood, nuts, seeds, olives, avocados, olive oil, canola oil, peanut oil, sesame oil, soybean oil, grape seed oil, and flaxseed oil.Nuts that provide healthy fatty acids include macadamias, hazelnuts, pecans, almonds, cashews, peanuts, walnuts, and Brazil nuts., Fruits and vegetables provide you with vitamins and minerals that your body needs to feel full and energetic throughout the day.Eat at least five servings of vegetables each day and two to four servings of fresh fruit.Aim for fruits and vegetables that are low on the glycemic index (GI). High-GI foods cause a spike in blood sugar levels, which typically causes a subsequent energy crash. Low-GI foods enter the blood more slowly and can help avoid energy crashes.Examples of low-GI foods include non-tropical fruits, sweet potato, corn, yam, beans/legumes, and non-starchy vegetables like carrots, asparagus, cauliflower, broccoli, and squash.Select vegetables for daily consumption that are leafy and dark green. Green and leafy vegetables are packed with vitamins and nutrients., Inadequate water consumption can lead to dehydration, which causes fatigue and feelings of low-energy.Help fight fatigue by staying hydrated throughout the day.


Experts recommend drinking nine to twelve glasses of water each day to stay properly hydrated.That total includes water you consume through juice, coffee, tea, and dietary sources of water like fruits and vegetables.If you're engaging in strenuous physical activity, or if you are in a hot environment, you will need to drink even more water to stay properly hydrated.Avoid sugary sodas and beverages.Avoid drinking too much caffeine. Caffeine is a diuretic, which can cause you to lose a considerable amount of water., Sugar gives consumers a temporary burst of energy (known as a sugar rush), but these effects wear off quickly. Once the sugar rush ends, most people feel tired and sluggish.Don't eat candy, sweets, soda, or any other food products with added sugar, as these will only make you more tired as the day goes on.