 Use a local field guide or call your local Audubon Society chapter (if you live in the United States) to find out what grows naturally in your region, and add these plants to your garden. Native trees, shrubs, and plants are more likely to attract birds than non-native trees, shrubs, and plants. A variety of native trees, shrubs, and grasses will also provide natural shelter and cover for birds.Evergreen trees and shrubs like hollies make great homes for birds over the winter.
Many birds are attracted to fruit and berries, so consider planting an apple tree or planting a blueberry bush.
 Different species nest in different places, so it is a good idea to conduct research on the type of bird you wish to attract. If you plan to buy a birdhouse or build a nesting box, take note that boxes with different holes, shapes, and orientations will attract different species. Such a box can be mounted to a tree or hung from a pole. Make sure that the box is up no later than February if you are in a southerly location; if in the north, hang it in March.Make sure that your nest site has adequate ventilation and is supplied with a "baffle" and reinforcement ring at the opening. This will prevent predators from entering.
 If you would like to create a more natural nesting spot, an easy way to do it is to allow your yard to grow a bit more wild. Let the grass grow in a certain spot or build a brush pile. This simulates the type of habitat where birds nest in the wild. You might alternately heap branches into a large pile or create sites under your bushes by raking mulch around the base.Consider supply nesting material such as string, hair, or other fibres, or stuff mesh bags with pieces of yarn or string, straw, pet fur, small bits of cloth, or anything else that a bird might use to nest.
Don't remove dead trees unless they are a danger. Standing dead trees are important nesting and foraging spots for many species, especially woodpeckers, which eat the insects that infest dead trees.

