 There are three primary forms of scoliosis, and each may have different treatment options. These forms include functional, neuromuscular, and idiopathic scoliosis. Patients also vary between having a C-curve or S-curve to their spines. Your doctor will be able to help diagnose your scoliosis, and the best treatment options.


Functional scoliosis is a curvature of the spine due to some form of structural defect somewhere else in the body. One common defect that causes this is a difference in length between the legs. This can usually be corrected by an orthotic wedge, which the wearer can insert into a shoe. This will help correct the difference in the leg length and keep the spine from curving abnormally.
Neuromuscular scoliosis is curvature of the spine due to structural abnormalities in the spine itself. Because of its high potential to get worse, this is often treated with surgery.
Idiopathic scoliosis, as the name implies, is a curvature of the spine for unknown reasons. The condition often corrects itself in infancy but requires observation. If it occurs in school-aged children, there is also a high potential for it to worsen.If the curve is below 25 degrees, no treatment is needed.
 Generally speaking, curves between 25 and 40 degrees may require a brace. Surgery is recommended for curves over 40 degrees. Your doctor will determine if a back brace, surgery, or another option is best for your specific case.
 Apart from the home exercises in Method 1, your doctor or physical therapist may suggest a more rigorous treatment option based on one of the major scoliosis treatment methodologies, which include the Schroth, Nu Schroth, and Scientific Exercises Approach to Scoliosis (SEAS) methods. Each methods uses different principles and techniques tailored to the exact spinal curvature of a specific patient.


The Schroth Method treats scoliosis by striving to reverse the abnormal posture. The exercises seek to correct the position of the pelvis, use spinal elongation and then rotational angular breathing to help achieve the best possible posture, and use tension in the trunk muscles to strengthen them and promote the best possible posture. The Nu Schroth Method reflects new knowledge and understanding of this disease in recent decades. Some advantages of this method include a home exercise routine that makes it easier to perform regularly, regular imaging studies to track the progress and effects of the exercises, and chiropractic and manual therapy techniques to enhance the effectiveness of the exercises.The SEAS Method calls for exercises that are done twice a week either at home or at a physical therapy center. The advantages of the SEAS method include exercises based on Active Self-Correction (ASC) that are completely tailored to the individual patient, positions that help the patient to achieve maximum function, and the inclusion of exercises to enhance neuro-motor control and stability.