 Once you’ve offered immediate care and stabilized the trauma victim, proceed to look for clear signs of spinal cord damage. Check if the neck or spine are twisted or in an odd position. Look for clear signs of fracture, bruising, or any penetrating wounds.
 Paralysis and loss of sensation (including ability to feel heat and cold) are the most obvious signs of spinal cord injury, but it’s also essential to check for related and lesser known symptoms. Such secondary symptoms may include:,, If the victim suffered a neck injury, it’s important to check for nerve damage to the head and face. A neck injury might also involve trauma to the throat’s structures and organs, so it’s important to identify injury in these locations as well.


Check for cranial and facial nerve damage, signs of which include twitching, drooping, hoarse voice, and improper position and movement of the tongue.
Damage to the trachea, larynx, and esophagus are indicated by trouble swallowing, drooling, bloody saliva, or an inability to talk despite being conscious.
Also check for numbness, tingling or loss of sensation in the person's hands, fingers, feet or toes

, If they are able to talk, ask them to report their symptoms. Ask if they are experiencing pain or pressure in the neck, back or head, or tingling or loss of sensation in the feet, toes, hands or fingers. Weakness or lack of control in any regions of the body are also signs of spinal damage.Be sure to keep your tone calm and reassuring. This is true for any emergency situation, but if a victim is worked up and their heartbeat increases, the increased blood flow can cause swelling and hemorrhaging that will aggravate a spinal injury.
Check whether a conscious victim can move arms and legs if limbs are uninjured.
Note good or poor coordination of movements. Coordination problems point to a spinal cord injury.
 If an injured person is unconscious, or are in and out of consciousness, assume the injury involves spinal cord damage. They can’t respond to your questions or report any symptoms, so it’s better to be on the safer side. This is especially true if you know the victim has suffered trauma to the head, neck, or back: the rule of thumb is suspect spinal injury until you can prove otherwise.

