 Tinted moisturizer and foundation are both water-based products that contain moisturizing agents, oil, and pigment (to give some coverage). But, tinted moisturizers contain more moisturizing agents than foundation.Depending on the makeup line, tinted moisturizers and foundations can be almost indistinguishable so you'll need to experiment with products.;
, If you have dry skin and are looking for some coverage, consider using a tinted moisturizer. The humectants and emollients in the moisturizer will add moisture to your skin and help seal it in.Foundation is a better choice for people with oily skin who are looking for heavier coverage.
 Try to match the tinted moisturizer shade to your face. If you're at a makeup counter, test a little on the side of your face. Or, test a little on the back of your hand. You shouldn't see any product on your skin if it blends well and matches. You should also check to see how your skin absorbs the product.In the winter, consider using a shade that's a little darker than your your skin tone. This can add a little extra color and give you a bit of a sun-kissed look., Many tinted moisturizers offer sun protection and list SPF protection. If you're not applying a separate sunscreen, you may want to find a tinted moisturizer that has an SPF of at least 30 and protects against both UVA and UVB rays.Remember that the sunscreen protection from your tinted moisturizer will wear off within a few hours unless you reapply it or apply another sunscreen throughout the day.
 While you can simply rub tinted moisturizer onto your face using your fingertips, using a brush may give you more control. Consider using a duo fiber brush. This brush is small with a flat head so you can stipple or blend the tint into your skin.Using a brush can help you achieve an airbrushed makeup look.
 Squirt a very small amount of untinted moisturizer and foundation primer onto your fingertips. Rub your fingertips together so that the moisturizer and foundation primer are mixed together well. Dab the mixture on your cheeks and forehead so you can easily rub it into your skin. Pat the mixture onto your chin, temples, and under eyes.








Let it set on your skin for about a minute before applying your tinted moisturizer.
 Squeeze about a pea-sized amount of tinted moisturizer onto your fingertip. Dab a bit of the tinted moisturizer on your cheeks, forehead, under your eyes and along your nose.








You could also put the tinted moisturizer wherever your skin appears discolored.
 Take your brush and use sweeping motions to spread the moisturizer into your skin. Make lots of small circular motions as you move the brush across your face.








It may help to hold the brush near the end so that you're not guiding its movement as much.
 Use your brush to work the moisturizer right under your eyes, under your nose, and along your jaw line. Be sure to work the moisturizer down from your jawline to under your chin. This will prevent any makeup lines from being visible.








If your brush is too large to get into hard to reach places, try switching to a smaller or finer brush.
 Use a rounded concealer brush to dip into your creamy concealer. Apply the concealer as close to your lash line as you can. Be sure to spread the concealer into the corners of your eyes and a little past the ends of your lash lines.








Applying a concealer can help make your skin a uniform color that matches your tinted moisturizer.
 To keep your tinted moisturizer in place for longer, apply a light dusting of powder over it. Dip a large powder brush into your usual powder and gently sweep it across your face. Be sure to get right under your eyes where you applied concealer.








Remember that depending on the powder you use, you'll probably get additional coverage or color so apply it lightly.

