 If you are overweight and suffer from man boobs, then your most sensible long-term option is to burn fat and lose weight. Once you start to lean up, you’ll burn off fat overall, including in your chest area. There's no guarantee that this will fix your gynecomastia, especially if it turns out to be a problem with mammary gland tissue rather than fat, but it's a lot cheaper than the next method and it will certainly help you to feel better about yourself either way.
 At the most basic level, weight gain and loss are both controlled by caloric intake. If you burn more calories in a day than you take in through eating and drinking, you will lose weight (and vice versa). This means that any successful weight loss plan must combine a healthy, portion-controlled diet with plenty of exercise.


Aerobic exercise, such as running, swimming, and martial arts, burns more calories per hour than most resistance exercise (weightlifting). On the other hand, building your muscle strength through resistance training will cause your body to burn calories faster in general, and especially when engaged in aerobic exercise. It is best to incorporate both types of exercise into your regimen.
Forget spot reduction. Bench presses, push ups, and similar exercises, though important, will NOT “spot reduce” chest fat. Remember, fat only burns off when your body needs to burn more calories than you have given it with food and drinks. Just focus on spending more calories than you save, and the rest will take care of itself.
Maintain dietary balance. As you control and reduce the amount of calories you consume, it is easy to lean towards a few food items and neglect balancing your diet. The fact is, the less energy you're taking in through food, the more careful you'll need to be to ensure that the food you do eat is providing balanced nutrition. You can read about recommended intake levels of various nutrients online and go from there. Alternatively, a dietitian can prepare a customized meal plan for you to follow.
 Don't deviate from the routine you've set up for yourself. Bad habits form overnight, but turning a healthy lifestyle into a habit can take months. Be strict with yourself and push through the uncomfortable transition period until your new lifestyle becomes second nature to you. As you become fitter and leaner, your excess fat will slowly melt away, reducing your breast size and increasing your confidence.


Be patient. Real fitness takes time. There are no healthy shortcuts. Crash diets only cause your weight to yo-yo, so be sure to avoid the temptation of short-term results or you might end up in worse shape than when you started.
Work with yourself. It's important to be strict about not deviating from your diet and exercise plan, but if you do, don't get depressed and give up. Instead, vow not to do it again and pick up where you left off.

