 A wok is actually an ideal pan for deep frying because its concave shape means that you don’t need as much oil and there is less chance of the oil boiling over. Two inches of oil is usually enough to deep fry in a wok, but make sure that you never fill it more than halfway.For deep frying, choose an inexpensive, flavorless oil with a high smoke point. Canola, peanut, and safflower oils are all good options. You can also use clean animal fats, such as lard or duck fat, but they tend to more costly.
 You need to ensure that your oil is at the proper temperature for frying before you add your food. The easiest way to accurately determine that the oil is hot enough is to use a thermometer. One designed specifically for deep fryers is the best option, but you can also use a candy thermometer.The proper temperature for deep frying depends on what you’re cooking. Consult your recipe to determine what the proper temperature for the oil should be.
If you don't have a thermometer on hand, you can use a wooden spoon or chopstick to test the temperature of the oil. Dip the handle of the wooden tool into the oil -- if it bubbles steadily, the oil is hot enough for deep frying. If there is particularly vigorous bubbling, though, the oil is too hot, and you should let it cool before frying your food. If few to no bubbles appear, the oil needs to heat longer., Once the oil is properly heated, you can begin to place the food into the wok. Try to ensure that all of the pieces that you add to the oil are the same size, so they’ll cook evenly. It’s also important to dry all of the food thoroughly before adding it to the oil or battering it and placing it in the oil because moisture will make the oil spatter.If you’re frying battered items, make sure to add them to the oil one at a time. Otherwise, they may stick together. Adding a bunch of food at once can also cause the oil’s temperature to drop.
To keep the food at a consistent temperature in the oil, move it around in the oil with a strainer or slotted spoon instead of just allowing it to sit.
 When you notice that your food has become a light golden brown shade, it’s likely done. Use a slotted spoon or metal strainer to remove the food from the oil, so you can scoop up several pieces at once. To keep your food from being too greasy, immediately place it on a paper towel lined plate, bowl, or tray to soak up the excess oil.Don't use plastic utensils to remove the food from the wok. Plastic can melt easily in hot oil.
The best time to season deep fried food is right after you’ve removed it from the oil. That’s because it will absorb the salt, pepper, or other seasoning more easily for deeper flavor.

