 You'll need to root your device; only rooted devices can used to auto find your attacking opponents.


If you don't know anything about rooting your device, you'll first need to know what the root is and how to root your device.;
, Your auto search for opponents only works with this app. Download it from Play Store or App store.


You can either download "Auto search for COC game" from the Play Store; or
If this app isn't available in your app store, then download it from the web.
 The application will show up in the list of games which can be modded. Install the mod for Clash of Clans.


Xmod game works for other games as well. it'll show you the list of games which can be controlled by the app.
 You'll see a X button on your game screen. Tap it and you'll see some options like:


Gold more than: Set the amount of gold you need from your raid.
Elixir more than: Set the preferred amount of elixir.
Dark elixir more than: Again your required amount.
Get trophy more than: Set it only if you need to attack someone in order to get more trophies. If you're going for loot then put the value on 0
Max town hall level: This is only a option for increasing trophies also follow the same rule above if you're attacking for loot.
Meet all the conditions: If you switch this on, then you'll only end up in a target having more than all the above values you've inserted. If you switch off, then you'll receive targets having any of the preferred loot target.
Search switch: After you're ready, put this on.
 Now, if you've put your Search Switch on, then your app will keep on auto searching a opponent with the loot you've asked for.


The auto search will take up a few minutes in searching the opponent.
If it takes a lot of time, then you might have put a large value in gold, elixir or dark elixir. Change it to a moderate amount in order to get your opponents quickly.
 If you've followed all the steps in right manner, then you'll get an enemy with the amount of loot you've hoped to find.

