 The opening statement of the Bible declares that “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.” (Genesis 1:1) Ask, "Who or what can say who or what did begin the universe?" Contemporary science -- although not absolutely certain on exactly what, when or how:
~ State that scientific theories postulate that the known universe did in fact have a beginning with what is called as “The Big Bang”.
It makes no logical sense for anyone to assert that "absolutely nothing" could have produced that initiating bang or anything else: "something existed" and "caused that" -- producing those things that we know of as having a beginning.
 about:


There was a "beginning of things",
There was an outline of "from-simple-to-complex-development" in the creation of earth and life in a Genesis account of creation.
Explains our universe far "in advance of humanity having theories/developed or technology" to try to form such concepts and verify scientific assertions. For instance, the Bible says:


“He stretches out the north over 'empty' space, and 'hangs the earth on nothing'.” (Job 26:7)

How would the writer four thousand years in the past (2000BC) have known that the Earth is "suspended on nothing" -- not attached to anything, but mountains were called pillars of heaven in the poetry of Job 26:11, "The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at His threatening.", ie: mountains "tremble and are astonished" (a poetic phrase).
 The Bible says that, “God is spirit…” (John 4:24), and it says that “God is love…” (1 John 4:8), and that "perfect love casts out fear". The awesome interdependence/relationships and amazing elegance pervading the entire universe suggest a planner, maker, superhuman architect having unlimited knowledge and power. The minds of human beings are taking time and, perhaps, eternity to discover what the originating mind (divine mind) actually accomplished in creating the universe and all it contains. The Bible says that God created mankind in his image (Genesis 1: 26-27), and it is logical to realize that the human mind is able to increasingly succeed, make progress, in understanding the universe because the human mind has a resemblance of the divine mind.
 Jesus was recorded to have been born in Bethlehem (Micah 5:2) of the Tribe of Judah (Genesis 49:10), and to have visited the Temple (Malachi 3:1) and to have risen from the dead (Isaiah 53:11). Historical sources and archaeological evidence establish the legitimacy of Jesus of Nazareth as an actual person to an extent comparable to that of any other notable historical figure. The books called the gospels document the life and teachings of Jesus and the existence and expansion of Christianity as a major religion showing Christ's purpose to create free access to the all mighty through His advocacy/mediation.
 While the material universe provides us with the things necessary to sustain, enhance, and enjoy life, there are also exquisite luxuries which are not essential to survival and reproduction such as knowledge: art, music, and ever-evolving technologies. Is this indicative of an indifferent cosmos or more indicative of one which is somewhat friendly to self-teaching humans? It seems reasonable to conclude that the universe materialized due to the presence of an intelligent force/source when one takes the time to learn how so many things had to go right in order for us to be here and how difficult it would be to possibly explain how not one of those interdependent things went wrong without making reference to God pro or con (or beliefs). It also seems as though the universe were designed for people, considering how human beings are the phenomenal creatures with the rare capacity to "be upwardly-mobile" to maximize the somewhat hidden potential of creation.
 Accept it instead of doubting it, see it instead of shutting your eyes and you will believe that God exists. Consider how the usefulness and attractiveness of things produced by human beings are not accidental qualities when present but are a result of our intelligent nature and our natural delight in order, balance, and beauty. In a similar way, it is unreasonable to conclude that the surpassing usefulness and attractiveness of things throughout nature are accidental qualities but it is rather more reasonable to conclude that they are the result of the existence of a surpassing intelligence which also delights in order, balance, and beauty. Creativity is at the bedrock and pinnacle of the existence of all living and non-living things and it is up to each person to attempt to explain his or her natural reverence for this illustrious state of affairs. The Bible says that God created everything and was quite pleased with his work.

