 Using store bought mayonnaise is a convenient option, but you can also make your own using all-natural ingredients. That way you'll know exactly what you're putting on your hair. An all-natural mayonnaise mask contains ingredients that nourish your hair, with none of the preservatives. Here's how to make it:


Combine an egg yolk, 1 teaspoon vinegar, and 1 teaspoon lemon juice in a bowl.Whisk in 1/2 cup of canola oil in a slow, steady stream. Keep whisking until the mixture takes on the texture of mayonnaise.
Apply it to your hair, cover your hair with a shower cap, and let it sit for an hour before shampooing.
 Mayonnaise alone does a great job conditioning hair, but adding milk and honey makes it even better. Milk and honey are both natural conditioners that leave hair incredibly soft and silky. Use this mask if your hair is in need of major rehydration. Here's how to make it:


Combine 1/2 cup mayonnaise, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) honey and 1 tablespoon milk.
Apply it to your hair, cover your hair with a shower cap, and let it sit for an hour before shampooing.
 If your hair has been looking rather dull lately, you might want to use a few extra ingredients that will cleanse your hair and bring back its shine. Vinegar and lemon juice can both be used to clarify hair. Here's how to make this mask:


Mix 1/2 cup mayonnaise with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) vinegar (distilled or apple cider) or 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) lemon juice.
Apply it to your hair, cover your hair with a shower cap, and let it sit for an hour before shampooing.
 Egg white helps to reduce frizz and dryness, leaving your hair shiny and healthy. Mayonnaise often contains egg yolks, but in this case you want to combine it with an egg white for maximum frizz-reducing benefits. Here's how to make it:


Separate an egg white from the yolk. Save the yolk for a later use.
Mix the egg white with 1/2 cup mayonnaise.
Apply the mixture to your hair, cover your hair with a shower cap, and let it sit for an hour before shampooing.

