 Staying hydrated with plain, clean water is one of the most important boosters to your health and immunity.You should try to drink 8 cups of water each day, but drinking more at the first sign of illness may help you ward off impending sickness.
 Sugar can make you gain weight, feel sluggish due to sugar crashes after consumption, and it can also reduce the efficacy of your immune system.Remember that many people drink more sugar than they realize in beverages. Check nutrition labels on sodas and other drinks carefully for sugar content and serving size to ensure that you know how much sugar you are drinking.
Even foods that do not seem sweet may contain corn syrup or sugar. Read the labels of processed foods carefully to be sure that you know what you are putting in your body.
 The cinnamon rolls in the corner store are not at all as satisfying as those in a bakery. More expensive or higher quality sweets can be so delicious and expensive you don't feel cravings for them anymore or as often.


Consider substitutions you make yourself. Making a jelly sandwich will contain less sugar and fat than store bought pastries and not include other added additives.
 Look for simple products with the least numbers of ingredients and easy to read or explained ingredient names. Those frozen entries and pre-made food go through processes unknown to the average consumer and contain many additional ingredients that can either harm or help your immune system. Gain control of what and how much of what ingredients go into your food by cooking your own and being selective.


Avoid eating bleached flours, cereals and baked goods.There's no real measurable amount of fiber in them and have gluten which turns to dough in one's digestive system causing strain on this critical part of the body's immune system.
 The best way to maintain a comprehensive array of immune-boosting vitamins and minerals is to consume a variety of healthy, fresh vegetables and fruits.


Brightly colored fruits often contain more nutrients than their paler counterparts.For example, kale or spinach is more nutrient-dense than iceberg lettuce.
Your body absorbs nutrients from real food better than from supplements, so it is important to get vitamins from food even if you take a vitamin pill.
Citrus fruits in particular contain vitamin C, which can boost immunity when consumed daily.
 Many sources tout garlic’s antibacterial, antiviral, and even anti-cancer properties. While these claims have not been fully proven by science, there has been research that supports the idea that garlic can help fight disease.


Fresh garlic is usually best. Try using a garlic press or mincing it very small and adding it to foods after cooking the foods.
 Foods that are high in protein are often also high in zinc. Protein can help your body function well and give you energy to get through your day. Absorption of zinc on a regular basis can help super-power your immune system, and the body absorbs zinc from protein sources better than it does from supplements or plant-based zinc.