 Cake dummies are foam pillars that are used by bakers when making wedding cakes and other decorative cakes. Cake boards are the foil coated boards sold by cake supplies stores to hold heavy cakes like wedding and Christmas fruit cakes for easy transportation. For a three-tired cupcake stand, you'll need:


3 cake boards in descending size
4 cake dummies, one pair larger than the other pair (note that you can substitute with like objects, such as an unwanted hat box and a large can, etc.)
Glue
Satin ribbon in color of choice
Pretty wrapping paper (match your party theme or just choose a color or pattern that you adore)
Scissors
Dressmaking pins
Double sided tape (strong)
Pencil.
 Glue each pair of cake dummies together. Allow to dry.
 Now wrap it all the way around the cake dummy until you reach the top of it. Add a dab of glue here and there to keep it tautly in place.


Secure the other end with another pin when you reach the top of the cake dummy.
Repeat with the other cake dummy.
 Draw around it with the pencil and remove. Do the same for the other two cake boards.


Cut out the paper shapes you've drawn.
 Match the paper circle to it and press down, taking care to evenly match the circle so that it covers the whole board.


Repeat with the other two cake boards.
 Glue in place. (You may need to hold it briefly so that the glue takes.)

, Use double sided tape of tested strength to keep the boards attached to the pillar cake dummies.


Place the largest cake board down first. Place double sided tape to the the base of the first pillar. Find the center of the cake board and press the pillar down firmly.
Place double sided tape on the top of this dummy. Find the center of the middle cake board and press the two together, the base facing the pillar's top.
Repeat for the next dummy and final layer.
 While this cupcake stand can be moved around with ease when there are no cupcakes on it, it's best not to move it once the cupcakes are in place. Arrange the cupcakes around each layer as desired.
 Use a well-wrung out damp cloth to spot clean frosting or sticky crumbs.


Eventually the stand will become a bit rundown and you'll need to pull it apart and rewrap with new paper and possibly wash the ribbon. Try not to throw away the base materials––they can be reused again and again if you're prepared to keep renewing the outer materials.

