 Stand up and walk around the house as a study has shown that a 10-minute walk can increase your energy for two hours. Being active brings oxygen to your brain and muscles.Be careful not to overdo it because if you waste too much energy doing something active you may become tired as your body tries to recover.


Be active when you feel tired. Get some oxygen into your body and your heart rate up to give you the jolt of energy when you feel yourself starting to fade.
 If you have had a long day or simply feel too tired to stay up, take a nap to recharge. It’s best to nap for five or 25 minutes. If you take it close to your usual bedtime then you won’t feel tired like you normally would. Ride this energy to stay up late., If you have been watching your tv, mobile device, or computer for many hours, your eyes will need a break. The glare from the screen could be causing your eyes to strain making you fatigued or sleepy. Take breaks to look away from the screen and let your eyes relax.Look out the window, take a walk around the house, and adjust the brightness of your screen to make sure you don’t strain your eyes trying to stay awake.
 Avoid sugary foods because, while sugar may give you an immediate boost of energy they may also make you tired immediately afterward. Try snacks like celery sticks with peanut butter, fresh fruit, nuts, or baby carrots., Let your friends or cousins know that you are trying to stay up late and perhaps they may be willing to text or chat over the phone to help you. If you feel yourself fading, ask for their help and talk to them. Talk to them about anything. As long as you have a conversation your mind will be engaged and forced to keep you awake.It may be easy to come up with conversation topics beforehand to make sure that you will always have something to talk about. For example, you can ask your friends to talk about a tv show, your parents about vacation ideas, or family members about what’s happening in school.
 Bright light can wake you up and keep you alert.Only have bright lights on in whatever room you’re in because having all the lights on in your house may make your family angry.
 You may get sleepy if you’re dehydrated. Water can not only hydrate you, but it will keep you awake as you need to pee. You may eat fruits and vegetables that contain water like watermelon.You can also have a cold shower or splash cold water on your face. The cold will send a jolt through your body and get you awake.


Wake up with cold water. A glass of cold water in the morning will jolt your metabolism.Fill a large water bottle and drink it over the course of the night. Refill it if you drink the whole bottle and still feel thirsty.
 If your parents allow you, drink something with caffeine in it like soda. Some brands have more caffeine than others. Energy drinks have a lot of caffeine and may not be healthy if you are young.


Caffeine can be extremely addictive so make sure you only consume a little bit if you are allowed.
 Ask a friend or family member to give you a wake-up-call or, better yet, stay up with you. Having someone else there to push you through your fatigue will make the night go by faster. You can play board games, cards, watch movies, or simply have a conversation. Keep each other accountable.

