 You'll need lots of different Pokémon of different types in order to build a strong foundation that you can later build your team on. While certain types are not advised over others, a basic team of six should have at least one of the following:


A flying type
A fire type
A water type
A grass type
An electric type
A physic type;
, In order to evolve Pokémon, you need a certain amount of the basic Pokémon's candies. These amounts range from 12-400 candies depending on the Pokémon, and you'll also want to have more to power them up. There are three basic ways to get candies, each with different amounts:

Catch more Pokémon. For each Pokémon you catch, you'll be awarded 3 candies. This might seem like a small amount, but it adds up very quickly and if you're in the right spot, you'll be swimming in candies in no time.
Transfer Pokémon. Aside from the fact that this will free up space in your Pokémon Storage System, it will also award you 1 candy for each transfer. Just remember to not transfer your highest CP Pokémon, as this should be used for the powering up and evolving process.
Hatch eggs. The amount of candies given per eggs depend on four things: The type of egg, the type of Pokémon, the rarity of the Pokémon and its stats. You never know how many candies you'll get, so try to hatch as many eggs as you can.
 This is needed to power up Pokémon. There are two simple ways to do this:

Catch Pokémon. You'll be awarded about 200 stardust per catch, and you'll also earn some XP and candies as a bonus.
Become a defender. Go to your local team gym and add one of your Pokémon to it. Try to choose a gym with a lot of higher CP Pokémon that is harder to defeat. That way, you will have a steady flow of stardust and Pokécoins once a day over the course of a week.
 That way, you'll save time and resources needed for later powering-up and evolving. You'll also be able to have a higher chance of having a better Pokémon., Simply click the "Power-Up" button in the Pokémon screen and watch as your Pokémon's stats change dramatically. Repeat until your Pokémon's CP meter is maxed out. By now, it's time to begin evolving., The maximum CP will be increased more and the bar will be filled quicker if you do so. If you don't remember which Pokémon has maximum CP, just organize your Pokémon by CP in the storage system., Just click the button that says "Evolve" and watch the magic happen! Make sure to check and see if you need to evolve it further. If so, you might want to begin collecting more stardust and candies. If not, proceed with the evolving process., Make sure to power-up before you evolve so the stats are better, and repeat this process until the Pokémon can no longer evolve and has maximum CP., That way, your team leader will give you advice on whether or not they should be used in a battle. Write the more important notes on paper so you don't forget!, This will help you identify them when you build your team and when you want to check their stats., This can be of your team color or another team's color. Either way, you'll need to be right at the gym's location to do this, so make sure that's where you are., Open up the team menu and choose the six Pokémon that you chose earlier. Now, make sure they are all fully healed and ready to go, and close the menu., Do this so you can test how powerful your new Pokémon team is and maybe gain a new gym for your team. Nothing is better than ending a day of making a Pokémon team with taking over a gym for your team.