 A higher degree of school connection serves as a protective factor against harmful occurrences (destructive and negative behaviors including self-harm, distress, and substance use).Lower risk-factors are also associated with adolescent engagement in extra-curricular activities.


Try encouraging your adolescent to engage in activities such as groups or clubs on campus, student government, or yearbook.
Encourage participation in sports. Pro-social behaviors such as playing sports have been correlated with increases in self-esteem, as well as higher likelihood of college attendance.Although, participation in sports can also lead to higher rates of alcohol use.If your child is involved in sports make sure you discuss the dangers of alcohol. You may need to monitor his social activities if you suspect he engages in alcohol abuse.
Make sure leisure activities are well-structured; these types of activities are linked to less antisocial behaviors.For example, an after school recreational club where teenagers can do may different activities would be considered unstructured, while a specific sports team would be deemed well-structured.
Be careful not to force your teenager to engage in a sport or activity that he does not want to be involved in.
 Expecting more out of a teenager’s school performance is correlated with reduced health and behavioral risks.Let the youth know what you expect of his academic performance including what grades you require of him. Be careful not to aim too high (straight A’s), or too low (just passing). You could say, "I think you should be able to get at least a C in each class. Do you think that is fair? Can we come to an agreement on this?"
Explain that you expect the youth to be respectful to adults and authority figures.
 A student’s belief that the teacher treats him fairly can be a protective factor against harm.Have regular meetings with the adolescent’s teachers in order to discuss any issues, and increase positive communication. Involve the student in the discussion if needed.
Address any issues with problematic student-teacher relationships as they arise. Meet with teachers and come up with a plan to improve the academic relationship.
If the student has a counselor or adviser at school, discuss the child’s goals and needs as well as ways to foster positive student-teacher relationships.
 Research indicates that one factor which helps protect teens from engaging in negative behaviors is degree of closeness with peers at school.Positive school relationships are also linked to higher overall academic achievement.Discuss the concept of healthy relationships with your teen. Explain that positive friendships involve fairness, trust, acceptance, and loyalty.
Monitor your youth’s interpersonal friendships. Know who his friends are and get to know their parents personally.
Be aware of any problematic peer relationships your teen might have. Ask your adolescent if he is being bullied or treated poorly by peers. Address these issues directly with school administration to come up with a plan to reduce bullying.

