 While lukewarm or tepid showers can be unpleasant, hot water on your damaged scalp will be even more unpleasant. Turn the water to a cooler temperature while washing your hair, which will be much more comfortable than hot water on your sunburnt skin.You can also apply a washcloth with cold water to your head while in the shower to help relieve the discomfort.;
, Your sunburned scalp needs plenty of moisture to help heal. Sulfates are salts found in many shampoos, which will dry out your scalp, doing even more damage. Read the ingredient label on your shampoo and avoid sulfates while your sunburn heals.Additionally, you should try to use shampoos and conditioners that contain 18-MEA, which will help provide moisture to your damaged scalp.Avoid conditioners that contain dimethicone as well, which is a form of silicone that can block pores and trap heat on your scalp, causing further damage and discomfort., Styling devices that use heat such as blowdryers and straightening irons will also cause unnecessary discomfort while your scalp is burnt.The heat radiating off the devices will also further dry and damage your scalp, so you should avoid them for roughly a week until your sunburn has healed.Most styling products contain chemicals that may irritate your sunburnt scalp as well. Try to minimize the hair products you use during this period.
 This may be more difficult for those with long, thick hair, but applying a cold compress to your scalp can also help cool your skin and soothe the discomfort.Using cold skim milk to soak the compress is a popular home remedy that some physicians also support.Proteins in the milk can help ease discomfort in addition to the cold soothing the pain.Though, you’ll probably want to rinse your hair quickly afterward.
 Moisturizers will help to cool and soothe your painful scalp as well. Topical moisturizers with aloe gel or hydrocortisone can help relieve any pain.Coconut oil is another safe moisturizer to help relieve sunburn pain.Choose products fortified with vitamins E and C, which will help limit the damage done to your scalp by the sunburn.You may have an easier time with coconut oil penetrating your hair to reach your scalp, but as an oil, it will give your hair a greasy look while you use it.
Skip after-sun products that contain lidocaine or benzocaine. They are common allergens, and you can find the same relief from these other moisturizers., Drinking plenty of water is another way to help moisturize your skin. Ensure you stay hydrated over the course of your sunburn by drinking at least eight glasses of water each day.The color of your urine is the easiest way to determine if you’re properly hydrated. It should be clear or very light yellow., An OTC painkiller such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen will also relieve pain from your sunburn.Take as directed and never exceed the recommended daily dosage.


If your child is the one with the sunburn, do not give your child a product containing aspirin due to the risk of a potentially life-threatening condition called Reye’s syndrome., You should keep your sunburnt scalp out of the sun as it heals.You may choose to wear a hat during this period, but pick something loose that doesn’t trap heat on your scalp or put pressure against your sunburn.
 If your sunburn is severe enough to form blisters on your scalp, do not pick or poke at them. Rupturing a blister from a sunburn is more likely to cause infection of the skin and eventual scarring.Keep your scalp dry and allow the blisters to heal without applying the moisturizing products directly to them.