


The sizes include large and fat eggplants, skinny small long eggplants and small round eggplants.
The colors include: Purple, dark purple, green, cream, yellow and colors in between.;
, If there is any softness, this indicates that the flesh is already starting to go off.


Softness in some spots can be salvaged by cutting around those areas but since it reduces the amount of flesh you'll end up with, ensure that you get them for a total bargain if they're like this.
 There should be no rough or brown patches anywhere on the fruit. If bruised or scarred, do not buy.
, This is also known as the calyx. This should be sitting tightly, looking fresh and mold-free.
 Eggplants are bland and inedible raw. Their virtue lies in their ability to absorb other flavors, distribute the flavors through a dish and offer a meat-like texture that makes the dish substantial. In Middle Eastern, Mediterranean and Indian cooking, they are often accompanied by tomatoes, onion and varied spices.
 Eggplants are best enjoyed when they marry well with the foods they're being cooked with. Eggplants are a great match for the following:


Dairy: Cheesy or creamy dishes; sour cream
Herbs: Basil, coriander/cilantro, garlic, mint, parsley (pesto on eggplant is especially tasty)
Spices: Coriander/cilantro, cumin, ginger
Oils: Olive oil (lots of it!)
Other: Tomatoes
Meat: Lamb, beef, mince.
 Some great ones include:


Baked eggplant
Fried eggplant
Grilled eggplant

Stuffed eggplant.
 Degorging is the process of salting and draining the eggplant, which is needed in older and bigger fruits due to their bitterness and also reduces the amount of oil absorbed by the eggplant flesh. The eggplant can also be blanched, if needed; follow the instructions of your recipe.
 This is used for larger and older eggplants and to reduce the uptake of too much oil during cooking. (Note: The eggplant will still absorb plenty of oil, just not as much as without the salting.)

Clean the eggplant.
Cut it into slices. The thickness should reflect the end use in the recipe.

Note that for roasting, you're more likely to use halves instead and cut cross-hatches across each half. The rest of the method here still applies.


Line the slices inside a colander.
Sprinkle with salt. Be generous, most will be washed off.
Put a plate onto the slices. The weight helps to squash out excess liquid in the slices.
Set aside for half an hour.
Rinse well under cold running water.
Dab or pat dry with paper towels.

