 If you are concerned about delayed puberty, lack of periods (for women), or infertility, visit your primary care doctor first to determine if you have GnRH deficiency or another issue. They can refer you to a specialist called an endocrinologist if needed.

If infertility is your only issue, you may only need gonadotropin injections. A doctor or fertility specialist can help.
If you have not undergone puberty, you may have a serious deficiency. Boys may have undescended testicles, a lack of body hair, high-pitched voices, and small sexual organs. Girls will not get periods or grow breasts.These issues start in the womb and are often diagnosed in childhood.
If you do not have a sense of smell, tell your doctor. They may order a genetic test to see if you have Kallman Syndrome.
 If your doctor suspects you have a deficiency known as hypogonadism, they will do a blood test. They will draw blood before giving you an injection of GnRH. After this injection of GnRH, a second blood sample will be taken to see if your body produces the right hormones.This test can also check how much testosterone or estradiol your body produces. It will determine if your problems come from low levels of GnRH or from an issue in your sexual organs.
 After getting hormone treatment, you will need to frequently monitor levels to see if treatment is working. Furthermore, about 10% of men may see their symptoms completely reverse, in which case therapy will need to be stopped.Monitoring may include:

Blood tests to test hormone levels
Examination of sexual organs
Sperm counts (for men)

, Because GnRH deficiency is considered rare, treatment can be difficult. If you are willing to experiment with new methods, you can try joining a clinical trial. While these trials are not guaranteed to work, they can give you access to cutting edge treatments, especially if previous treatments have failed.You can use Clinicaltrials.gov to find a clinical trial that you qualify for. You can also apply for the trial through this website.

