 Knowing what you want to look like before you go shopping will keep you from making unnecessary purchases. Figure out your fashion goal. Are you bored of your tomboy style and want to go for something more feminine? Do you want to bring more color to your drab look? Questions like these can help you determine your goals.


If you're having trouble, write down the names of people (these can be famous people or people you know) whose style you really like. Describe each person's typical outfit and determine how you can match this look.
You can also look at fashion magazines in the library or while you are waiting to check out of the grocery store. Note which styles you feel best about.
 While it can be tempting to buy something like a gaudy studded leather jacket at the thrift store, since you can't wear it very often, you're not spending your money wisely. Instead, opt for simple clothes that look good in many situations. You can use ostentatious accessories to give your wardrobe a little pizzazz when the time is right.


To start, you'll want a few good-fitting pairs of jeans, some neutral-colored shirts, a few sweaters or sweatshirts, and perhaps a jacket. These pieces should be dignified and timeless so you can get a long life out of them.
 Making a few changes to an old piece of clothing can make it look brand new. For starters, try decorating your clothes with pins, ribbons, sequins, gems, and other things you may have lying around. Fabric markers (which are usually reasonably cheap) can also let you treat your clothing like a canvas for your artistic creativity.
 A good general rule is to spend twice as much on each piece of clothing, but buy half as many pieces as you used to. This way, you get higher-quality clothing without spending any extra money. You can even save money in the long run if you ordinarily wear lots of clothing out — higher-quality clothing usually lasts longer.


Having fewer clothes means you'll need to be a little more creative with your outfits. Investing in a few cheap accessories from a thrift store can keep things varied for a minimal cost.
 What's cheaper than buying your clothing used? Making it yourself. You don't have to be a master tailor to make your own clothes — numerous how-to guides available online can help you here.


Our article on making clothing is a great place to start for DIY projects. If you're looking for how to make a specific piece of clothing, try searching for it here or on your favorite search engine.
Consider learning how to sew. Not only is it a fun hobby, but also something that makes it much easier to make your own clothes. This can also be useful for altering bad-fitting outfits bought at thrift stores.

