 To lessen your anxiety, it might help you to have everything ready for your journey. Figure out what items or steps you could take that would make you feel better, and then plan ahead.For example, you might wish to:


Fill up the car with gas.
Check the tire pressure.
Have a first aid kit in the trunk.
Have phone numbers of people to call in case of an emergency.
Have directions printed out or ready to go in your phone before you leave.
 Don’t engage in risky behavior, like speeding or looking at your phone while driving, that could increase your anxiety level. It also increases your risk of an accident.


Do not feel like you need to drive more aggressively than you are comfortable with. For example, a lot of people accelerate through yellow lights, but you might want to drive more cautiously until you feel less anxious and more confident.
Do not talk on the phone while driving, and never text and drive. Your phone can wait until you arrive.
 It helps you feel calmer and more confident, because you are now able to draw on the “experience” you already have.Before you start driving, close your eyes and breathe deeply. Try imagining yourself going through all the steps of starting the car: buckling your seat belt, turning on the engine, getting out of your parking place, and successfully driving to your destination with confidence and calmness.
Visualize the route and passing landmarks on your route if you can.
 Focusing on your breathing can help you remain present and calm. Once you get good at mindful breathing, you will find it to be a relaxation tool you can utilize anywhere!An easy technique to try while you are driving is simply breathing in through your nose, feeling your belly and lungs expand as air fills your body, and then fully exhale out your nose.
 Relaxing music at low volume can help you calm down. Do not listen to anything that will further agitate you., Lift your spirits with positive or silly words and fun songs. Maybe you only want to do this when you are alone so you don’t feel self-conscious.


For example, you could repeat a mantra, like “I’m doing a great job. I’m confident and calm. I will get to my destination on time and safely.”
Make yourself laugh. Be silly with your speeches -- no one is going to hear you! For example, you could narrate your drive like you’re in a race car: “She’s coming round the corner… will the Accord let her merge? YES! She’s moved into first place, ladies and gentlemen!” Laughter will help you relax.Singing your favorite, guilty-pleasure songs at the top of your lungs can help you enjoy yourself. Not only is it fun, but singing helps you focus on your breathing and remain present, which helps relieve stress., If you have tried some relaxation techniques and are still feeling anxious behind the wheel, you may wish to seek counseling from a counselor who specializes in phobias. Fortunately, with professional help, phobias generally require fairly straightforward treatment.


You will most likely work with a professional using exposure therapy techniques; that is, getting a little more comfortable with one aspect of driving at a time, slowly building your tolerance level.You may also wish to learn more about Overcoming a Driving Phobia.

