 You need to include the everyday expenses that most people forget to factor in. You will not be able to divide your income to pay for every bill you owe unless you know what your real expenses are. Make a list or create a spreadsheet of all payments that you must make on a regular basis. If the amount fluctuates, such as a utility bill, use the highest average monthly bill as a guideline. Use these ideas to get started, but include other bills you may have:


Mortgage
Insurance (home, car, health, life)
Real estate and personal taxes
Car(s)
Credit cards
Utilities (gas, electric, water, sanitation)
Telephone/cell phone
Internet
TV (satellite, cable or other)
Groceries
Health & beauty (include vitamins, prescription drugs, personal grooming, haircuts, spa visits, etc.) Also include the cost of using a Laundromat if you don’t have a washer and dryer.)
Gasoline (include gas for lawnmower, snow blower, chainsaw, etc.)
Routine vehicle maintenance (oil changes, recommended tune-ups, new tires, etc.);
,, Include regular and irregular income:


Wages and tips
Bonuses and stipends
Interest and dividend income
Freelance income
Alimony and child support
Social security and retirement payments
Seasonal income

, If your expenses exceed your income, you must address that issue before you go any further.
 Most people can’t immediately increase their income, so it is easier to manage your debt by decreasing your expenses. Attack all nonessential expenses first:


Entertainment
Manicures, pedicures and hair salon expenses
Coffee or soft drinks you purchase daily
Clothing and shoes

, Some will reduce your debt burden dramatically, but all will help in some way:


Refinance your mortgage for a lower interest rate
Ask your credit card companies to give you a reduced interest rate (they sometimes will)
Switch to an insurance company with lower rates
Eliminate premium cable or satellite packages.
Adjust your thermostat by several degrees year round.
Cancel all magazine and newspaper subscriptions.
Use grocery coupons, buy generic brands and buy what is on sale
Buy day old bread and marked down, slightly dinged canned goods
Shop for used clothing and household items
Start a garden and grow vegetables and herbs.
 Look over the monthly statement of each of your credit cards. Allot the highest payment to the card that has the highest annual percentage rate (APR). For example, if you have 4 credit cards pay the minimum due on the 3 with the lowest APRs and increase your monthly payment on the card with the highest APR. When that card is paid off, apply the same repayment plan for the other cards.
 Open a savings account if you don’t have one. Even saving $1 a day will net you $365 at the end of the year.
 Always try to pay cash for everything. Don’t use a credit card unless it is for an emergency. Buy what you need after you have saved the money for it.

