 Healthy people rarely experience symptoms of CMV. Initial infection or a reactivation – the virus coming out of dormancy to cause symptoms – usually presents like mono.Symptoms are usually mild and resolve within three weeks – but have a general awareness of the possibility of CMV infection.


Like with mono, there’s not much to do but wait it out and take care of yourself in the mean time. Healthy people rarely get seriously ill from CMV infection, so you probably don’t need to visit your doctor. Rest, hydrate, and take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) like Tylenol for aches and pains. Symptoms usually resolve on their own.
 Rarely, individuals with CMV infection who are otherwise healthy will experience more severe illness with potential health complications. This is why knowing when you might have CMV is helpful – you can be on lookout for these possible problems and seek immediate medical care if they develop:Inflammation in your intestines causing fever, stomach pain, diarrhea, and bloody stool.
Brain inflammation (encephalitis) with subsequent changes in mental status.
Hepatitis and poorly functioning liver.
Inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis), which can cause cough, difficulty breathing, and low appetite causing weight loss., Any of the above signs should send you running to your doctor if you have weakened immunity. The immunocompromised should also be extremely cautious even about what seems like low-grade illness, such as symptoms associated with mono. Infection with CMV in this population can be deadly, so when in doubt seek immediate care.CMV is a big concern in those with HIV and weakened immune systems, while it poses little risk to those who are healthy.
 There is no cure for CMV. If an individual does need treatment, the most common medications used are antiviral drugs. Antiviral drugs ganciclovir and valganciclovir are being used for patients with weakened immune systems.Researchers are studying new medications to treat CMV, but those are not currently available.


Because of the strong side effects, ganciclovir should only be considered for infants with severe congenital CMV disease. Nursing mothers should stop breastfeeding while taking this medication.
For some, CMV can be life-threatening – newborn babies, children with HIV/AIDS, or those being treated for cancer or having organ transplants. These cases might need hospitalization and treatment with intravenous (IV) antiviral drugs.Patients receiving bone-marrow transplants might also benefit from getting CMV-immune globulin (CMV-IVIG), Most of the time, CMV is dormant in healthy people – which means it is present in the body, but causes no illness. However, because the consequences of CMV in newborns can be so severe, pregnant women should all get tested for CMV. If you’ve been infected and your body has made antibodies, you will probably not infect your child. CMV can cross the placenta, though, so any new infection could be spread to the baby in the womb.If you’re pregnant and have a new CMV infection, or any abnormality is detected on ultrasound, your doctor might want to do an amniocentesis to determine if your baby is infected. This procedure extracts and tests some amniotic fluid from the pregnant mom.See your doctor for CMV testing especially if you get an illness while pregnant that feels like mononucleosis (“mono”) – sore throat, fatigue, swollen glands in the throat, and fever.Breastfeed your baby without fear. It’s true that breastmilk is a fluid that can pass along CMV virus, but of all things breast milk least commonly makes the baby sick.Lactating mothers with CMV can still breastfeed. Doctors suggest that the positive effects of breastfeeding outweigh the possible risks of passing CMV to the baby., Any mother with known CMV infection should certainly have their baby tested for CMV, and since the infection is so common it’s good practice for every baby to be tested regardless. Doctors can test your baby for CMV by using their urine, blood, or saliva. Be sure to have the test done within two to three weeks of your baby’s birth to ensure accurate results., If you tested positive for CMV during your pregnancy or your baby has tested positive, you should regularly see your baby’s doctor even if no symptoms are present. The doctor will need to perform regular hearing and vision tests to make sure no problems are developing.