 The optimum time to breed her is 45 to 60 days after she has had a calf. In order to get her to calve on the same date as the previous years, allow for 80 to 90 days of rest before getting her bred again. Typically it will take longer for her to come back into normal heat if she's in poor condition or has reduced fertility due to age, inadequate diet, or environment.


The poorer her condition, or, the thinner or fatter she is, the later she will be able to breed back. See How to Judge Body Condition Scores in Cattle for more. Age and poor or undesirable conformation will also determine how soon a cow will breed back in time.
The reason there is a waiting time between when the cow has given birth to when it is best to get her bred again is because it takes time for the uterus to involute or shrink back to its normal size. It also takes time for the cow's ovaries and hormonal system to get back to normal. Though a cow will show signs of heat 14 to 18 days after giving birth, her heat periods are quite unpredictable and short. This is because it takes some time for the corpus luteum to grow back to its normal state and begin to normally produce new ova again.



AI follows the same principles and rules mentioned for breeding heifers in order to have a higher success rate in getting her settled.
You usually do not need a calving-ease bull with cows, certainly not like you do with heifers. However, please be cautious in what bull you select for your cows. If you are using a Continental bull on British-type cows, for instance a Charolais bull on Angus cows, that bull does need to have good or low calving ease EPDs in order to reduce risk of dystocia or calving problems in your cows. Charolais are typically notorious for causing calving problems in British-type cows, or rather throwing calves that are often larger than what a British bull on British cows usually throws. If you do not pay attention to the numbers (the EPDs or Expected Progeny Differences)of that herd sire, you will land yourself in a lot of trouble, and be very busy next calving season pulling calves.

On the other hand, if you are using a British bull on British cows (and it doesn't necessarily have to be the same breed), you can still get a bit careless with calving ease and still end up with problems. All the same, watch out for those bulls that have extremely high calving ease EPDs, regardless of what breed they are or you choose.

Also remember to select the bull that complements and improves your herd, not the other way around.





