 Strip canoes are edge-glued which is what will eventually allow them to hold shape. While you'll attach the strips to the forms and end of the boat using staples, the glue between the strips will create the shape.


You may want to wear gloves when applying glue and stripping the canoe.
 Start stapling the thin wooden strips directly to the ends and forms. Lay your first few strips across what will become the top of your canoe (this will be closest to the sawback). Alternate stapling strips on both sides. This will keep your boat even and centered.


Make sure the strips are placed snugly next to one another. This allows the glued edges to come into contact and seal with the other strip, maintaining the canoe's shape.
 Keep stapling and placing the edge-glued strips across both sides. You will be working your way up to what will become the bottom of your canoe.


If you need extra support while stapling the strips into place, use clamps.
 Once you've attached all your strips and allowed the glue to dry, carefully remove the staples from the ends and forms. Use a pair of pliers and pull straight out.Take care not to damage or dent the wood by twisting the staples as you pull them out.
 You may have an extra bit of wood sticking out at the ends. Use a block plane to trim off where the strips stick out.


If you notice any very rough strips of wood that stand out, use the plane to make it even and flush with the canoe.
 Use a coarse sandpaper and sand with the grain of the wood. Go over the entire canoe using long even strokes. Make sure not to spend too long in one spot or you may develop a weak area in the canoe.


Replace your sandpaper when you notice it starting to become dull. This will save you time and ensure that the canoe is evenly sanded., First, take out the drywall screws that are attached to the stations and sawback. You should be able to carefully pull the forms out of the canoe while turning the canoe out and off of the sawback.


The plastic tape will make removing the forms easier. You will also want assistance in holding the canoe and gently turning it over as you remove the forms.
 Many strip canoes use a combination of fiberglass, epoxy, and varnish to seal and reinforce the wood strips. Follow the individual package instructions regarding specific application, dry time, and safety precautions.


Wait for your epoxy or varnish to completely dry and seal before taking your canoe to the water.

