 Make sure you update them regularly both at work and at home. Most experts suggest that this should be done at least weekly, especially with Windows operating systems (OS).;
, Many social media sites automatically check this box under your sign in, so be vigilant about making sure it is never saved. If it saves, it may automatically bring up your account the next time someone else goes to that social media site.
 Try to use your full name both in the username and in the profile columns, to prevent anyone else from taking that account and using it to impersonate you. Treat your name like it is your brand, and try to protect it from illegal usage whenever you can.


Some people have very common names. If you cannot have your exact name, then try placing a "." between your first and last name. You can also include your middle name, middle initial or your profession in the username, if that helps to distinguish you apart from others with the same name.
 Identity thieves can open accounts and commit a number of financial crimes with just this information. You can decide if you want to use a profile picture, but try to make it a likeness that you can also use as a brand, and look for anyone else that tries to use it.
 Set your profile to private, and make sure you have to approve any friend requests, comments, photo tags, links or posts that appear on your page.


Be very discerning about who you accept friend requests from. Some thieves create accounts in order to grab information off accounts. Make sure you know everyone you are friends with, and frequently delete friends who you have no further desire to have contact with.
 New and successful social media scams create emails that are tailor made to look like they are directly from a social media provider. Always assume it is not, and go to the site directly to see if you have a message.
 Many experts suggest using a sentence that includes a number and only makes sense to you. Change your passwords to social media accounts every 1 to 3 months.
 In many instances, social media thieves have become actual thieves, taking this data and using it to rob people when they are out of town. Never be specific about where you live or when you are out of the house.
 Unless you intend on reading through their entire terms and conditions policy, you do not know where your information is going. Many companies sell the information they take off people using their free application to businesses or private individuals.
 Even your friends can have their identities stolen on social media sites and post links that lead thieves to retrieve your personal information or hack your computer.
 Although many young people are more adept at navigating the Internet, they may not fully understand the implications of posting private information, photos or potentially offensive material on the Internet. They may have to face even more adept social media thieves in the future, so prepare them well for the task.

