 How much do you expect to get paid, if at all, during the development stage and beyond? How much start-up capital will you need to kick it off?To figure this out, start with potential revenues, rather than costs. How many units will you sell at what price, based upon your market analysis? The price of a product is generally determined by the competitor's prices. Unless you have something special, you will not be able to charge more than competitor, most likely less. Once you project revenues and unit sales, develop your cost of goods based upon sales projections (variable costs) and administrative (fixed) costs. Project the full slate of financial statements.


Contact vendors and other providers of relevant outputs in order to get price quotes on the goods and services required to implement your business plan.
Estimate the costs related to hiring personnel, and purchasing the physical space and equipment required to implement your business idea.
If you can't afford to pay yourself you will need to ask yourself if your business idea is worth pursuing. Remember, the business's money is not your money and failure to understand/consider this fact is how many business people end up in hot water.
 You may require some systems and processes to meet statutory obligations/legal requirements. Include business taxation and registration considerations in your business proposal in order to prevent unnecessary surprises.


Check with your local or state business administration office in order to learn whether there any licenses, taxation or other requirements that you must comply with in order to implement your business plan.
 This is quite important, since most businesses fail due to lack of adequate funding. Once you have determined the cost of implementation, you should next determine how much profit you would need to make in order to recover all costs associated with implementing your business proposal. This will allow you to determine how much you should charge for your product or service, and will allow you to begin to structure a timetable for when you will begin to recoup an actual profit.


Use the total amount of estimated costs for implementation as the starting point for determining your profit forecast.
Though the profits you make would ideally be greater than the costs of implementation, the reality is that most businesses fail before the first full year of operations. Thus breaking even over the first few years of operation would be a big success.
A forecast for recouping implementation costs will strengthen your business proposal, especially when you are pursuing financing.

