 Social networking is hugely important, and ensuring that you have a solid presence will have a large impact on your views. Post compelling content and you’ll soon build a loyal following. Follow and share with other users, who may reciprocate and follow you. There are a variety of ways that you can use social networks to extend your online presence, depending on the needs of your site., Facebook allows you to create a page for your site or company. This allows you to quickly share new articles with your Facebook followers, as well as share other related articles. A Facebook Page is also a good way to advertise your site to a large number of people.
 Create a Twitter account for your site or for yourself, and post the headline and link to each new article you publish. Many blogging software packages allow you to do this automatically. Make sure you have a link to your Twitter feed on your site.
 Tumblr is a blogging service that allows you to easily link to content around the web. Use Tumblr to post links to your articles as well as related content.
 Google+ is Google's social network service, and like the others, allows you to easily post links to your published articles. Google+ has a very large potential audience, since all Google users have access to it, though a far smaller percentage actually use it.
 Pinterest is an image-focused social sharing site. it started as a crafting and recipe service, but has since grown to cover a broad range of categories. Make sure that your blog posts have good, clear images if you're going to pin them on Pinterest.
 Create an Instagram account for your company or site and take some pictures related to your niche. Be sure to use hashtags to advertise your blog on the photos, and have a link to your site in your profile.
 Reddit and Digg both have large communities of active users. Posting your article can result in a lot of good traffic and sharing, as long as you are posting in the correct place and following submission rules.

