 Once it's determined that your vision problem is because of a cataract(s), you'll be asked by your doctor to undergo tests about a week or so before the surgery.Typically your ophthalmologist will perform a painless ultrasound test (called an A-scan) in order to measure the size and shape of your eye(s) so they can determine the right type and size of lens implant to use during surgery.


The curve of your cornea can also be measured with a technique called keratometry.
It's easy to detect cataracts, even with the naked eye, because the lens of the eye looks cloudy or opaque and eventually obscures the color of the person's eyes.
Cataracts often develop in both eyes at the same time, although one eye may be more advanced and have worse vision than the other.;
, As is the case with any surgical procedure, your ophthalmologist may ask you to temporarily stop taking any over-the-counter or prescription drugs that could increase your risk of bleeding during the cataract surgery.If that's the case, then stop taking certain medications at least a day (possibly two) before you're scheduled for the procedure.


Anti-inflammatory drugs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen), some painkillers (diclofenac) and all blood-thinning medications (warfarin) should be stopped temporarily.Alpha-blocker drugs (Flomax, Hytrin, Cadura, Uroxatral) for prostate problems are also problematic because they can prevent your pupil from dilating properly during surgery.
Don't forget about herbal supplements. Ginkgo biloba, garlic pills, ginger, Asian ginseng, feverfew and saw palmetto should also be discontinued for a few days because the tend to "thin" the blood too.
 Your ophthalmologist may also recommend that you take preventative action by using antibiotic eye drops starting a couple of days prior to surgery.Antibiotic eye drops significantly reduce the risk of a bacterial infection developing after surgery when your body's immune system is slightly weakened or over-worked. These eye drops are prescribed and don't typically cause any stinging or irritation in your eyes.


Add a few drops to each eye (even if you only have a cataract in one eye) 3x daily, particularly just prior to leaving home for your surgical appointment.
If you aren't prescribed antibiotic eye drops for some reason (allergy?), there are natural ways to kill bacteria in your eye. Consider using saline solution (salt water), colloidal silver or diluted hydrogen peroxide (3% solution diluted 50/50 with distilled water).
 Another common recommendation for virtually any type of surgery is to not eat food or drink any beverages about 12 hours prior to the procedure.The reason is that nausea is common with general and local anesthesia, and it's dangerous to vomit while you're on your back because you might choke. A little bit of water may be permitted, but avoid consuming everything else.


Schedule your appointment early in the morning so you can still eat something for dinner the evening before and not get too hungry.
Drinking alcohol is definitely a no-no because it thins the blood and prevent clotting, so avoid all alcoholic beverages for at least 24 hours prior to surgery.
Your last meal prior to surgery should be bland in order to reduce the risk of indigestion and heartburn. Avoid fatty, fried and spicy foods.
 Virtually everyone gets nervous prior to surgical procedures and are worried that it will hurt. Many are often squeamish about having parts of their eye cut out and replaced. As such, some people are tempted to ask for a general anesthesia so they're completely asleep during the cataract surgery. However, most patients can remain awake during the procedure and only need a local anesthesia, which carries less risk of allergic complication.Local anesthetic using sedatives, topical anesthetic drops or injections around the eye are used much more often than general anesthesia because it also allows patients to return to normal activities quicker — often within 24 hours.If you're given a local and a sedative, you'll remain awake, but feel groggy during the cataract surgery.
 There are two main ways of removing a cataract: phacoemulsification and extracapsular cataract extraction.Phacoemulsification involves inserting a thin needle-like probe into your eye's cornea to break up the cataract with ultrasound waves, and then sucking out the small fragments. Extracapsular cataract extraction requires a larger incision in order to cut out and remove the cloudy portion of the lens.


Look for an ophthalmologist that is experienced with phacoemulsification because it causes less damage to your eye. In fact, stitches may not even be needed to close the small incision on your cornea.
In contrast, the larger incision needed with extracapsular cataract extraction requires stitches and a longer recover time, as well as slightly greater risks of complications, such as excessive bleeding and infection.
Regardless of type of procedure, cataract surgery is an outpatient procedure and typically takes less than an hour to perform. If you have cataracts in both eyes, you'll likely have 2 separate procedures spaced a few months apart.
 There are different types of lenses that are implanted during cataract surgery. The lens implant, called an intraocular lens or IOL, is made of either rigid plastic, acrylic or flexible silicone.If it's appropriate for your case, choose a flexible type of IOL because they can be fit through a small incision that requires few or no stitches to close, which reduces recovery time. Ask your doctor about all your options.


In contrast, rigid plastic IOLs need a larger incision and more stitches to close, which increases recovery time and risk of complications.
The type of IOL depends on the size and shape of your eyeball, the size of the cataract and the doctor's preference for using certain materials.
Ask your surgeon about available options for IOLs. Some types are made to block out UV radiation, whereas others work like bifocals (provide near and distant vision).
In general, an IOL significantly improves vision, although it doesn't often correct for near or farsightedness.
 After your cataract surgery, you should expect your vision to significantly improve within a few days.Directly after surgery, your vision will be blurry, but clarity returns pretty quickly — especially if you get phacoemulsification surgery with a flexible IOL that requires no stitches. You may be asked to wear a protective eye patch or shield for a day or so.


If you get a local instead of a general anesthetic, most people are able to resume normal activities within 24 hours, although it may take another day or two to be able to see well enough to drive a car or read a book.
After leaving the operating room, you will be given different types of eye drops to take (antibiotic, anti-inflammatory and/or moisturizing types). You'll likely need to take the drops for a week or two.
It's normal to experience mild discomfort, itching and some fluid discharge from your eye for a few days after cataract surgery. If your symptoms persist or get worse than see your doctor immediately.
 To avoid complication and unnecessary side effects and truly "survive" cataract surgery, you should book follow-up visits with your ophthalmologist at regular intervals.Book appointments for a few days after your procedure and then again the following week and following month.


You doctor will examine your eye and make sure recovery is normal and that there's no signs of infection, excessive inflammation or vision issues.
Vision problems after cataract surgery are rare, but can include temporary loss of vision, double vision and increased eye pressure.If your recovery goes as planned, your eye will be completely recovered within 8 weeks — although your vision will be back to normal within a week.
 Within the first few weeks after cataract surgery, be conscientious of not damaging your eye. For example, when you get home after surgery, avoid bending over and lifting heavy objects for a few days because it'll increase pressure within the eye and increase healing time. Avoid rubbing or pushing on your eye in any way and consider wearing a protective shield when you sleep for a few weeks.Use your eye drops multiple times per day during your recovery period, as instructed by your doctor.
To ease discomfort immediately after surgery, take over-the-counter painkillers such as acetaminophen instead of anti-inflammatories (aspirin, ibuprofen) as they "thin" the blood and can trigger bleeding.
Avoid getting any water (from pools, lakes, rivers), dirt or dust in your eye, which can increase the risk of infection.
Signs of infection to look out for include eye pain, swelling, discharge of pus, nausea and a mild fever. If antibiotic drops don't combat the symptoms, see your doctor immediately.

