 Organic coffee beans have been grown without the use of pesticides and synthetic fertilizers. While scientists haven’t established whether using pesticides to grow coffee leads to pesticide residues on the beans themselves, pesticides are harmful to the planet and to farm workers. Pesticides increase polluted water runoff, and may lead to symptoms like headaches, dizziness, and difficulty breathing in farm workers. Organic brands may be a little pricey, but they are the healthiest choice for the planet, and probably for your own health.Some studies have shown small increases in nutrients in organic produce compared to conventionally grown produce. This means organic coffee may actually be healthier for you.Check for the USDA organic label on your coffee. Some brands may claim to be organic, but you cannot be sure they adhere to USDA organic standards unless their product bears the label.;
, You should stick to decaf coffee if you are pregnant. Studies suggest that caffeine may stunt fetal growth and increase risk of stillbirth or miscarriage.Caffeine may also complicate regulation of hypertension and diabetes, so decaf is probably the best option if you have either of these conditions.At the same time, caffeine has been linked to health benefits. Caffeinated coffee, but not decaf, has been associated with lower risk of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and dementia.Talk to your doctor to see what type of coffee, if any, is safe for you to consume.
 Some studies have shown that light roasted coffee beans have higher levels of antioxidants, which protect against molecular damage and may prevent certain diseases. For example, a study published in 2017 found that light roasted coffee beans yielded coffee with higher levels of chlorogenic acid, a major antioxidant, compared to darker roasts. However, more research is needed to verify these findings.Although coffee is high in antioxidants, studies have not conclusively demonstrated that high levels of antioxidants in coffee translate to higher antioxidant levels in the body.Antioxidants in coffee may have negative health effects as well. Chlorogenic acid has been associated with atherosclerosis, a disease characterized by clogged arteries., The USDA 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines state that drinking 3 to 5 8oz cups of caffeinated coffee per day can be part of a healthy diet. This level of consumption has not been linked to health problems.However, the USDA does not encourage people who do not drink coffee to start.
 While evidence shows that drinking up to 6 cups of coffee a day does not have adverse health effects for most populations, the health benefits of coffee are less clear. If you're trying to improve your health, you should turn your attention to other lifestyle factors. Focus on exercising more and eating a diet high in fruits and veggies.Coffee may be protective against certain cancers, Parkinson’s, type II diabetes, and cardiovascular disease, but more research is needed.

