 The crucial step is to keep pressing the reverse button.;
,,,


Each time the Play button is pressed, the illuminated ON-OFF button blinks ten times and a block of 10 codes is sent to your component. This process continues until all the codes in the Code Lists have been searched. If the component has not turned off after all codes have been searched, the illuminated ON-OFF button blinks four times, turns off, and the Auto Code Search Entry method is exited.
 Skip to step 7.


If your television is an older model it may want to turn on immediately before you get the chance to press reverse. If that is the case and the TV automatically turns itself on then simply follow the step and keep pressing reverse until the component turns OFF. Then skip to step 7.
 This will isolate the correct code in the last block of codes sent. Each time the REVERSE button is pressed, the illuminated ON-OFF button blinks.


If the REVERSE button is accidentally pressed after the component responds, press and release the FORWARD button. Wait two seconds to see if the component turns off again.
, You must press the STOP button to save the code.
 To continue past a block list of codes that provided minimal or no control, turn component back on after being turned off from pushing play and continue with step 4.
,, The illuminated ON•OFF key turns on and remains on. If you release the component key at any time during the Direct Code Entry procedure, the illuminated ON•OFF key blinks four times, and the process is exited.
,, At this time, release the component key. If the illuminated ON•OFF key turns off, you have entered a valid code and have followed the correct procedure for Direct Code Entry. If you enter a code number that is not in the Code Lists or you do not follow all of the steps for Direct Code Entry, the illuminated ON•OFF key blinks four times when the component key is released. This is an indication that a programming error has occurred. In that case, repeat the Direct Code Entry process from step 2 and try the next code listed.

