 You may only have room for a small desk if you’re a college student. If you are just about to enter into the workforce, you may need a larger desk with personal yet professional touches. You may need a very large and specific desk if you are in a career that heavily relies on desk work but want to work from home to tend to your family., Move your filing system off your desk and onto the floor. You may also place it behind your computer monitor. Separate files that you don’t need everyday so you can create needed space atop your desk.Organize vertically and use the side of your desk to keep your desk clear. Use tape, clips, or vertical filing systems to keep things nice and neat. Avoid marking up your desk with special adhesive you can purchase at your office supply store.Layer your decor to conserve space. Stack books on top of files or create other stacks organized by shape and size. Colour coordinate levels or organise by size to keep a neat and visually pleasing aesthetic. Layers are especially helpful when you have a small area to work with., Don’t let your office supplies, memos, and keys mess up your desk. Find the right tray or desk organizer online or at your local office supply store. Make sure that you have the right measurements because you don’t want it too large that it takes up too much space or too small that it can’t handle all of your clutter., Don’t get overwhelmed with little memo’s or stick it notes. Use a planner to keep all your appointments organized and easily accessible. You can find leather bound planners that look great displayed atop your desk. Stylish day planners can be purchased online or at your local office supply store., You don’t have to wait until the beginning of the year to put up a calendar. It’s actually cheaper to get a calendar after January. Stand up a mini calendar atop your desk. Calendars come in many varieties so it’s easy to find something that makes you happy like kittens., Neatly roll and tuck away any cables for your electronics or chargers. You may also purchase fun and creative cable organizers and chargers that you can display atop your desk.Purchase cable organizers online or at an electronic store. You may also simply use twist ties or simple clips to neatly keep the cables, cords, and wires organized and in one place.Show off your personality with special docking stations and cord organizers in the shape of cars, toys, or cartoon characters.

