 A corral big enough to move your horse around in with you at a safe distance away is great.;
, 3 times in one direction, then 3 in the other direction. Watch your horse, he`ll tell you when he wants to come in by: keeping an ear on you, tipping his head to the inside of the circle, dropping his head, licking his lips. When you see a sign that he is ready, ask him to stop. Go up to him at his shoulder only, as this is your safety area. Rub him all over his body, start moving up to the ear area. Retreat, repeat.
 Do this as much as necessary. Eventually, the horse will want to rest with you, when you can rub him all over with your hands, (rubbing ears, poll, forelock, etc) with him in comfort.
 Rub, never pat (horses like to be rubbed) the horse on the head, gently stroking the withers or neck.
 If there are any spots on the horse (especially the head) that it objects to you touching, use an approach and retreat method. Use a rhythmic rubbing motion. When you have reached the spot where the horse pulls away or objects, retreat to a place where he does accept and then approach the spot again. Repeat until the horse accepts your touch and then stop to give the horse a release (this is the reward). Make sure all of the touchy spots are eliminated using approach and retreat.
 Approach and retreat while respecting his objections and then working past them. Remember to release the second the horse makes a change and accepts the halter's touch. This is very important.
 If the horse raises his head to the point you cannot reach the poll area, any place you can reach on his neck will be the place to start. As soon as you get the smallest give release, rub and praise. (This can take awhile but well worth the effort.) Now that the horse is dropping his head, start asking him to bend his neck toward you. Do this by placing your left hand over the top of his nose, to the other side of his face/check area, bring in toward your body. Remember to release on the slightest try on the horses part. This position is the safest place to halter, start rubbing the halter over face, retreat. Do this until the horse is comfortable.
,, Now you can halter your horse.
 Hook it while stroking the forehead slowly. Allow little slack in the lead-rope as you attempt to lead the horse.(About 18-24 inches, don`t choke up on them, this makes them claustrophobic, and puts you in danger.) If they try to trot or bolt, step to the side and pull sideways. This will upset their balance, and make it hard for them to run off.

