 A buildup of oil and dirt will prevent your ring from looking as shiny as it could look, and you may want to keep it ready to show off at a moment’s notice! To clean, put the ring into a mug filled with warm water and a few drops of dish soap. Let it soak for a few minutes. Then, scrub it with a soft-bristle toothbrush and then dry it with a soft cloth.It’s recommended to clean your ring once every few weeks.
 Bringing your ring to the jeweler once a year is recommended so that a professional can determine if your ring is in good condition. Usually, the jeweler will check the prongs to make sure that your stone isn’t close to falling out. If you don’t want to take your ring to a jeweler just yet, take a look at the prongs yourself.To check the prongs yourself, make sure that one of the prongs isn’t shorter than the others. Then, shake the ring while holding it up to your ear to check that nothing rattles.
 Intense exercise could mean tennis, bicycling, lifting weights, etc. The stone could pop out with a lot of fast movement. Also, using equipment, like weights or ropes, while wearing the ring could dent and scratch it.You should also avoid wearing your ring at work if you handle heavy machinery.
 We all want to smell great, but smelling like a fresh rose isn’t worth damaging your beautiful ring. The oils, chemicals, and alcohols in these products can damage your ring after a while. The gem could become clouded, and the metal could become dull. It’s okay to wear lotion and perfume, but make sure it doesn’t come near your ring., At some point, you may feel the need to resize your ring. It could feel too loose or too tight for a number of reasons, like pregnancy, a change in weight, and temperature. Think of all the reasons that could have caused this, and consider if these changes are temporary before going to the jeweler. If the ring stays too loose after a long time, then it is a good idea to take it in.Getting your ring sized in the afternoon or after exercise to accommodate swelling is ideal.
It’s recommended to get your ring one size up from what you need if you live in a tropical environment.
Leaving the ring loose for too long can cause excess wear on the stone.

