 Exercise can be a good way to get your mind off of the world around you, while also making you into a stronger, healthier person. Scientists have established that exercise has some natural neurological effects that make us happier. Long distance running, for example, will eventually cause a “runner’s high,” but even short workouts make us feel better.Thirty minutes of brisk walking per day is enough to significantly decrease anxiety and depression.;
, Meditation involves, by its very nature, taking your mind off of the world around you. However, it has been shown to have positive psychological and neurological effects.Although there are various types of meditation, the one that is best established scientifically (and most likely to distract you) is mindful meditation.


Mindful meditation is when you focus exclusively on one thing around you. The standard practice is to think about only your breathing, though you could also focus on a different sensation in your body or on an object in your environment. When your mind begins to stray, try to direct it back to the object of your meditation.
This practice has been shown to increase your ability to recruit high order pre-frontal regions of the brain, essentially allowing your conscious mind to suppress unconscious anxieties.If you are having trouble controlling your emotions, mindful meditation might be the solution for you., Traveling, especially spending an extended period of time in someplace culturally foreign, is shown to make people more agreeable and emotionally stable.Travel is a good way to escape the daily humdrum of your life, while learning something about the wider world around you. Like most forms of escapism though, travel can be harmfully addictive if you rely too heavily on it for your happiness.


You might be addicted to travel if you feel depressed for an extended period of time upon your return from a trip or if travel is impeding your ability to establish a financial and social foundation at home. If you find this to be the case, consider taking a break from travel., Sitting back with a book can be a great way to escape the world around you while expanding your vocabulary, reading comprehension, and other language arts skills. The best books for escapism are typically those that don’t remind us of real world problems.


Experts say that the best books for escapism are fantasy and children’s stories. These usually take us to a very different world, without any of the issues that we experience in our own lives., Music can be a great way to regulate your moods. It is used both to make us happier and to cope with sadness. It can distract us, but it can also foster an awareness of our emotions. It can be used, therefore, both to seek escape and come to grips with what we’re escaping., Knitting, art, music, woodworking, and other crafts require attention to detail. They compel you to take your mind off of what is bothering you and to focus on what you create. When everything is said and done, you will have distracted yourself and learned a useful skill. Perhaps you will even have produced something that can either earn you money or provide enjoyment to other people.
 TV is a great way to distract yourself, because it naturally quiets your thoughts.However, TV isn’t great for you; every hour of TV you watch is estimated to reduce your life expectancy by 22 minutes. While the science is still developing, limiting yourself to something like two hours of TV per day is probably ideal., Video games, especially those that involve expansive fantasy worlds, can help us relax and escape the world around us. Because they’re more active than TV, moderate video game use can actually be helpful, making kids more social and happy as well as encouraging certain types of mental development. However, the benefits of video games stop accumulating after an hour of play per day., The internet can be a great place to learn things and keep in touch with people. Excessive time online, however, will make us lonelier, less productive, and keep us up at night. Experts suggest that we spend no more than two hours per day online.


Don’t interpret the time allotted to surfing the web, playing video games, or watching TV as cumulative. In general, you should try to only spend about two hours per day in front of a screen of any sort.
 Coffee and conversation is a good way to perk yourself up. Even a milkshake can help you out. Alcohol and socialization is also an obvious way to change your mood. Less obvious is what role alcohol should play in our lives. Studies have shown that moderate drinking can have small health benefits, but extreme alcohol consumption is very detrimental to us. Experts recommend no more than two drinks per day for men and one drink per day for women., A host of studies have shown that people who regularly try to escape reality experience anxiety and depression. Although the things they use to escape reality make them happier in the short-term, they’re usually using them to escape a situation that will only get worse if it isn’t addressed.Escapism can be divided into four stages, healthy enjoyment, avoidance, neglect, and obsession. Once you begin putting off important issues you have reached “avoidance” and when you allow your life to begin falling apart you have entered “neglect.” By “obsession,” you have difficulty finding enjoyment in the real world. If you find that you are engaged in anything other than healthy enjoyment, you should consider changing your lifestyle., Escapism is, by its definition, an effort to run from something you don’t want to confront. Diagnosing what that is can be difficult, precisely because you are afraid of it. Find strength in the knowledge that the situation will only get worse if you don’t do anything about it.Sometimes it can also be hard for us to see what we’re running from because we’ve never known anything different. Talking to someone else, especially a professional therapist, will give us new perspective and help us diagnose what we dislike about our lives.
 Once we know what is bothering with us we can make an effort to fix it. Try to channel the energy that you had been expending on escapism into something that will fix your problems. For example, if you are discontent with your romantic life, go out and meet people instead of staying inside.


Many of our issues are really about confidence, and for those, positive self talk can be useful. Your own mental dialogue defines how you perceive yourself. To be more confident, spend more time thinking positive things about yourself.You can also spend more time trying to rectify whatever you have problems with. If, after some self searching, you find that you are upset with your physical condition, invest some time into exercise. If you are concerned about your grades, spend more time studying. If your financial situation bothers you, begin researching new career opportunities.
 Try to have a good time in the real world. Explore the city that you live in, try to pick up new skills or languages.Most importantly, go out and see people. While talking to people online might seem to fill a social need, studies show that people who primarily socialize online are actually lonelier.


The exception to this rule is if you are using the internet to stay in touch with real world friends and family. That is different than trying to carve out a social life that is entirely digital.You can also use the internet as a jumping point to find people with similar interests whom you can socialize with in person. Meetup.com is a good resource for taking online interactions into a healthier real world environment.

