 At Christmas time, poinsettias and mistletoe make popular houseplants. Poinsettias can cause some mouth irritation if eaten, but are not very toxic to dogs. Mistletoe, however, can be quite toxic and cause such signs as vomiting, difficulty breathing, and severe diarrhea. Your dog would need immediate veterinary care if he eats mistletoe.Place the plants high up on a shelf or countertop where your dog can’t get to them.


Holly berries can cause digestive and heart problems.Keep these away from your dog.
Alternatively, you could use artificial plants.;
, Your dog may see Christmas tree ornaments as toys to grab and play with. Unfortunately, his attempts to grab the decorations could knock over the tree, potentially injuring him. To prevent the tree from falling, secure it to your ceiling with a sturdy hook.Visit your local home improvement store to purchase the hook.


Select a hook that would hang down far enough for the tree to still be anchored within the tree stand on the floor.
If securing your tree is not possible, use a portable gate to block your dog’s access to it. You could also place the tree in a room where he is not allowed to go. , Water preservatives are available to make your tree stay fresh for longer. However, these preservatives could be hazardous to your dog. Look for a pet-safe preservative at the home improvement store.If you cannot find a pet-safe preservative, use plain water instead.


Even if you have blocked your dog’s access to the tree, he could still figure out a way to get to it. If this happens, he could drink the tree water and become sick.
 Decorating a Christmas tree can be a lot of fun, but must be done with caution if you have a dog. For example, wrap tree lights around the top part of the tree to prevent your dog from chewing on the cords. Also, do not use glass ornaments, which could injure your dog’s mouth or feet. Whichever ornaments you use, place them high enough so he can’t eat them, since the paint or material could make him sick.Do not put tinsel on your Christmas tree. The shininess of the tinsel will be attractive to your dog, and he’ll want to eat it. However, tinsel can bunch up in his intestines and cause intestinal blockage that would require surgery.Avoid using food-based decorations, like strings of popcorn or cranberries. Like tinsel, these strings of food can block the intestines., If you have decorated your tree and/or home with lights, you will need keep your dog from chewing on the cords. If he chews on them, he could develop electric burns in his mouth. Electrical cords can also cause electrical shocks.Try to place the cords out of reach.If that is not an option, consider purchasing cord covers at an electronics store.


You could also spray a nontoxic deterrent, such as Bitter Apple, on the cords. Unplug the cords when you are not using them.Check the electrical cords for signs of bite marks.If you see bite marks, replace or reposition the lights.
 Beautifully-wrapped gifts are pleasing to the eye, but can be hazardous to your dog. Ribbons, tinsel, string, and other gift-wrapping materials can cause choking or intestinal blockage if your dog eats them. Your veterinarian would need to remove the material surgically.When you have finished wrapping gifts, place the materials in a secure container that your dog cannot get to or open.
 If you like to light candles during the winter holidays, keep a close eye on your dog. Your dog could burn himself with the flame, or knock the candles over and cause a fire.Consider using plug-in plastic candles instead.


Liquid potpourri can also be hazardous to your dog. If he swallows it, he could develop ulcers in his mouth and esophagus.Either avoid the use of liquid potpourri completely or refrain from using it when you are not around your dog.

