 Pet smells can permeate your house because your pet may be leaving fur, dander, mud, and traces of urine or feces lying around. To remove these odor sources, vacuum your entire house.Use special attachments when necessary, and don’t forget to vacuum:


Floors
Baseboards
Carpets, rugs, and mats
Furniture
Under furniture
Cushions
Areas where pets spend lots of time;
, Improperly cleaned or undiscovered pet messes can make your entire house stink. But if there are areas where there have been recent pet messes, spray the area with an enzyme cleaner. Let the cleaner soak in for 30 minutes, and then blot it dry with a clean cloth.


Enzyme cleaners are ideal for this job because they will break down the proteins in urine, feces, vomit, and other biological stains., Spot cleaning stains will help remove smells from specific areas, but cleaning your entire carpet will get rid of pet smells that are lingering all over the house.You can either use a powder or wet shampoo to clean your carpets:


For a dry cleaning, sprinkle a powdered cleaner over the entire carpet. Let the cleaner sit for at least 30 minutes. Vacuum to remove cleaner, dirt, and smells from the carpet.
To shampoo, fill the shampooer’s reservoir with water, and add the liquid cleaner to the compartment. Press the lever and vacuum the entire carpet. Allow the carpet to dry for at least 24 hours, and then vacuum.
 Furniture is another place where pet smells love to hide. The type of furniture will dictate the best cleaning method, but you should always check the care labels before cleaning to make sure the piece isn't dry clean only. Care labels marked with an S mean don’t clean with water, and X means dry clean only.


To clean upholstered furniture like couches, fill a bucket with warm water and several drops of liquid dish soap. Swirl the water to create suds. Dip a soft-bristled brush into the suds and brush the entire surface of the furniture. Wipe with a barely damp cloth and air dry.
To clean leather and leather-like fabrics, make a solution of equal parts vinegar and water. Soak a cloth and wring out as much liquid as you can, so the cloth is barely damp. Wipe the surface of the fabric., Regular bathing is a good idea for dogs and ferrets, and some other pets might need a wash from time to time as well. Get your pet into a bathtub, wash basin, or bucket. Use a hose or bucket to wet your pet’s fur. Apply pet shampoo to the fur and lather it in with your hands. Rinse thoroughly to remove all traces of shampoo. Towel dry the fur.


When washing, pay special attention to the paws, the behind area, and any areas where your pet may have rolled in something.
Do not wash your pet’s face, eyes, or ears with water and shampoo. Shampoo in the eyes can sting, and water in the ears can cause a yeast infection., Another common odor source in the home is your pet’s bed.To clean the bed and remove odors, put the bed in the washing machine and wash it using a regular cycle and warm or hot water. Tumble dry the bed in the dryer.


Larger beds will likely have a removable cover on them. Wash the cover in the washing machine. Sprinkle the stuffing with baking soda to remove odors. Vacuum off the baking soda before replacing the clean cover.
 In homes where pets are allowed on the bed, it’s important to wash your bed as well, since it will likely be harboring pet odors too. Strip pillow cases, sheets, fitted sheets, duvet covers, and blankets from the bed. Machine wash all the linens and blankets. Add ¼ cup (59 ml) of vinegar to the wash for extra odor-fighting.Air or tumble dry all the bedding.


While the linens are being washed, sprinkle the bare mattress with baking soda to help remove odors. Before making the bed again, vacuum up the baking soda.
 Wash fabric toys, ropes, towels, collars, and leashes in the washing machine. Tumble dry them in the dryer. Wash hard toys, bowls, and rubber toys in the sink with hot soapy water.


You may not often think to wash your pet’s accessories, but these items can smell like your pet and leave lingering odors in the house.
 Empty the contents of the litter box into a plastic garbage bag. Scrub the litter box with soap and water. To remove difficult stains and smells, pour some vinegar into the box and let it soak for about 30 minutes. Scrub the box with a brush and rinse it out. Let the box air dry.


When the box is completely dry, fill it with fresh litter. You can also sprinkle in some baking soda to help prevent future odors., For pet guardians who have rats, mice, gerbils, ferrets, rabbits, and other pets that live in cages with bedding, the cage could be making your whole house stink. Gently remove your pet and place the pet somewhere safe, such as a second cage. To clean the cage:


Empty the contents of the cage and throw out the bedding
Clean all toys and bowls
Clean the bottom of the cage with soap and water
Let the cage air dry
Fill the bottom with fresh bedding
Replace all toys and dishes
Return your pet to the cage

, Letting in fresh air is one of the best ways to rid your house of bad smells. In spring, summer, and fall, open windows throughout the house to create a breeze that will blow fresh air in one window and bad smells out the other.During cold weather, open one window at a time, and only leave it open for a couple of minutes to help air the house out.
 An air purifier equipped with a HEPA filter is ideal for eliminating odors in your house, because the filter will trap dander, fur, and other odor sources. These filters will also reduce dust and other allergens, making the air in your home cleaner.


Replace the filters in the air purifier every few months, or according to the manufacturer’s instructions., There are lots of deodorizers you can use around the house to help get rid of pet smells. Two of the most popular items are baking soda and vinegar, which you can spray around the house, on carpets, on beds, and elsewhere to help remove smells. To make your own deodorizers:


Fill a spray bottle with plain vinegar. Add five to 10 drops of essential oils if you like, such as lemon, lavender, or vanilla. Spray the vinegar around the house.Add ¼ cup (55 g) of baking soda to a spray bottle and fill it with water. Shake well and spray liberally., To make the air smell fresh, floral, or like another of your favorite smells, use a commercial or homemade air freshener. When you opt for commercial sprays, gels, or plug-ins, make sure they're specially formulated to be safe for pets.Spray it around the house to freshen the air.


You can also make your own air freshener by filling a saucepan with water, citrus peels, and your favorite herbs. Bring the water to a boil and let it simmer on the stove to infuse your home with delicious smells.
 The best way to stop your home from smelling like your pets is to clean regularly and stay on top of messes. A good cleaning routine will include regular vacuuming, floor washing, laundry, and dusting. For the best results:Vacuum three times a week
Clean hard floors weekly with a vinegar and water solution
Dust weekly
Do laundry as necessary when you have a full load
Clean carpets every couple of months

, Pick up solid waste and throw it in the garbage. Blot the mess to absorb excess moisture. Spray the mess with an enzyme cleaner, and let it sit for 30 minutes. Blot the area with rags or a cloth and let it air dry.


Urine, feces, and vomit are major causes of pet smells in your home. To prevent these smells, clean up messes as soon as they happen, or a soon as you discover them., Pet smells build up over time, so it’s important to stay on top of cleaning and washing. Wash your pet’s bed, fabric toys, leashes, and collars in the washing machine every month. Wash hard toys every month in the sink with soap and water. Wash bowls with soap and water every week., Pet grooming involves bathing, clipping nails, and brushing teeth. Keeping up with regular grooming can drastically improve the smell of your house, because fur, dirty nails, and bad breath can make your house stink.


Brush your pet every day to remove excess fur and dirt
Brush your pet’s teeth at least three times a week for good oral hygiene and fresh breath
Bathe your dog at least once a month, and more for dogs with particularly smelly fur, Pets can track all manner of stinky substances into the house on their paws when they come in from outside. To stop this from happening, leave a towel by the door and always wipe your pet’s paws when it comes inside. This is especially important on rainy and muddy days, or if your pet rolled in something outside., If your pets spend a lot of time on chairs, couches, and other furniture, it’s a good idea to invest in washable covers like slip covers. That way, you can simply remove the cover when it starts to smell, wash it in the washing machine, and you don’t have to worry about vacuuming and scrubbing your furniture.


You can also invest in easy-to-clean furniture, such as microfiber, that won’t absorb smells and stains like furniture with a thick weave will., Scoop waste from the litter box daily to minimize urine and feces smells. Change the litter monthly. When you change the litter, wash the pan with soap and water. Let the pan dry completely before filling it with fresh litter.