 Quests are the best way to level your character, so do whatever quests you can find. If you plan on leveling more than one class, you may need to plan out what quests you do when, but you will want to be sure that you are generally doing quests.


Guild Levels are a good way to get XP and level your character. These are time-limited quests which are received from the Adventurer’s Guild. The tasks can be battle oriented or simply be a request to fetch items or craft items.
 Fates are randomly generated battles which occur as you travel around the world. Any players in the area can participate and the XP and rewards are determined only by how much you contribute to the battle. These are a great way to get XP, so make sure to get out on the road every now and again!


It doesn’t matter if someone else is fighting a creature: you can join in to help! Players will not lose anything by getting help in a battle. The first person to engage an enemy will always receive 100% of the associated XP.
 You can level grind by fighting the small, minor creatures you encounter out in the world. These will yield small XP gains, but come in an unlimited supply, so they’re still a great way to level your character.
 You will have a variety of logs, where you are tasked with finding X number of a particular item. Complete the collection and you will be given an XP and monetary reward. Certain logs are individualized to your class, and can be worked on at any point (in other words, don’t save them for leveling later classes).


You crafting and gathering logs will give you experience rewards, generally for crafting or gathering an item for the first time.
Work on your hunting log. Your hunting log will give you XP and money for killing a certain number of particular monsters. This is individualized to class, so you should feel free to go ahead and work on your hunting log at any time. This makes them a great way to level a second class.
 Certain items and situations can help you gain XP faster. Some foods and drinks will provide a small XP buff. You will also receive an XP buff as apart of free company activities, so consider joining one.

