 Obviously, if you are faking sick on the weekend so you can avoid going to school on Monday, you will be busy faking sick and won't have much time to do the things you enjoy. If there's something you definitely want to do, try to squeeze it in quickly before faking your "sickness".;
, Either way, both are a perfect choice. If you start the sickness too early on Saturday, you will have to keep up the masquerade all weekend and Monday, and it will be very hard and your chances of succeeding in fooling your parents that you're sick will be limited and slim.
 Make sure it is something that you don't get often, because if you have faked sick before and used the same excuse too many times, don't try it again or your parents will become suspicious of whether you are really sick or not. If you choose to start the "sickness" faking in the night hours of Saturday, go to your parents' room at roughly 11:00pm or 1:00am, or any time between those two, maybe a bit later, and complain of whatever sickness it is you're using.
 Your parents, if they are the sort that try to convince you, "it was just a dream, there's no monsters", you are likely to be tucked back into your own bed, but if your parents understand how freaked out you get after nightmares, they'll probably let you stay in their room until the night is over. If they do this, say that you feel like you're going to vomit and go and get a bucket, bowl or plastic bag for you to "vomit" in. This way, your parents will think that you really are sick and won't suspect you of going to so much trouble simply to fake sickness.
, or "How will I get through P.E. feeling so sick?" but make sure you only point out things they know you enjoy doing.
 Also, remember to delete your computer's internet history or else your parents will definitely send you to school Monday.
 Beware, though, you also must sacrifice your Monday and be "sick" for the whole of that day.
 Also remember to be very, very convincing that you are sick because Monday is the day most kids choose to fake sickness, because they want an extra day off and are not ready for the weekend to end.
 Stay under the covers a lot and breathe on your hands, then rub them on your face, but if a thermometer is involved, try breathing on it behind your parents' backs, but if it becomes too hot your parents will suspect you of being seriously ill and needing the hospital, or they will know you are faking sickness and had breathed on the thermometer.
 Find something like baby powder and put it all over your face, then wash all off but it will leave a slightly pale effect. If you are pale, your parents will be more likely to believe that you're sick.
 Don't eat anything that's offered to you, but if you do accept it only pick off a little bit and chew it slowly to show that you've lost your appetite and definitely are sick. If your parents are insistent on you eating something, tell them "I'm not hungry!" but not too rudely or loudly. They might reconsider your "sickness" if you have the energy to be yelling and objecting.
 Ask for covers and fake sleeping. If you tend to twitch a lot when you fake sleeping, pull the covers right over you. Your parents are likely, though, to peer into the covers and see how you're doing. Some tips to making sure you fool them into thinking you're really sleeping are:


Don't move a lot. When they're not looking, if you're uncomfortable move slightly. Only move about every 20 minutes or so. If you keep tossing and turning, they're going to know for sure that you're not actually sleeping and are faking.
Stay still. Breathe calmly and casually, like you normally would if you were really asleep or very relaxed. This way they'll think you're deeply sleeping and your body is working on getting you better from your "sickness".
When you wake up from your "sleeping", remember to make sounds like you're sick and uncomfortable. Say something like "ow", which will definitely spark your parents' interest and they will likely ask, "What's wrong?" or think to themselves that you can't go to school on Monday.
 Definitely don't do anything you enjoy doing, because not doing it will convince your parents that you're sick if you're turning down one of your favourite things/hobbies to do. Also remember to work hard and go to a lot of trouble to fake your "sickness". Your parents will never suspect you of faking sickness if you go to a lot of trouble to convince them you're sick.
 There are many dangers and cautions involving this. You should also remember that your parents might just have a trick up their sleeves to catch you out in the act of faking sickness. If you honestly are hungry, you should eat something when your parents aren't going to notice, but this is also a possible danger. Your parents could catch you eating when you have "no appetite".
 While you are busy reading this, your parents might be reading about what kids do to fake sickness.
 There are articles about doing that that could help you in achieving those things. To fake vomit, you could try chewing something, and bring it back up your throat when it's not too far down. Read the article on wikiHow about making fake diarrhea if you want to know how to do that.
 Cough and say something to yourself like, "I wish Mum and Dad were awake to help me", right outside your parents' bedroom door, but as soon as they wake up quickly run to the bathroom or toilet and play the "innocence act". Act like nothing happened and you were just talking to yourself as you walked past their bedroom and that you didn't intend to wake them up.
 Otherwise, if they notice that you are trying very hard to get the point across that you're "sick", they will begin to suspect that perhaps you're not sick after all. Just try hard enough for them to decide you're sick.
 This way, they will think you're sick and won't take you to the doctor because you feel "dizzy" whenever you try to "get up".
 During the night, while you know your parents are sleeping (and any other members of your family) quickly go to the bathroom tap or the kitchen tap and wet yourself. Dry yourself but make sure you remain cold enough to have goosebumps. Once you're certain you aren't wet but have goosebumps, go into your parents' room and complain that you're cold.
 Then go to your parents' room again and complain of stomach, headache, fever or something like that. This will be your last shot at faking before the morning. Remember to keep up the masquerade in the morning as well. Wake up early deliberately to make it seem like you really do need the day off because you won't be focusing to your best at school due to going to bed late and waking up early. Act like it was your sickness that woke you up so early and kept you up so late.
 Spend a fair amount of time in the toilet (with the door shut) and then flush. Make sure your parents don't see the toilet before you flush it, because they will detect no waste to be found in the toilet bowl.

