 Being the shortest and/or thinnest person in your class can automatically present you as a target for getting picked on. In general, certain kids are teased in school when they demonstrate a tendency to react either with sadness or anger. Ignoring those who tease you can show them that they are not affecting you; and, hopefully, the teasing will soon stop. You can even practice tease-proofing at home.


One cognitive behavioral technique studied by researchers involved kids thinking of themselves as a video game machine in which the other teasing kids are constantly pressing the buttons. The strategy teaches kids who are being teased that they have the power to "unplug" their machine and not allow those teasing them to get a reaction or press their buttons anymore.This technique practices three different subsequent steps for ignoring: P.Z.W. First, "play it cool" and try to avoid making any facial expressions or physical aggression to the teasing. "Zip the lip" reminds you to not respond with any verbal aggression. Finally, "walk away" allows you to remove yourself from those teasing you either by leaving the environment or focusing your attention on something else like completing your school work or reading a magazine.;
, They may not realize that what they're saying is bothering you. Don't be over-emotional when you do this. Simply assert yourself and stand up for your rights.


A confrontation does not mean a fight or verbal disagreement. Practice assertiveness by raising your voice and speaking clearly.You can say something straight-to-the-point like "Leave me alone" or "Can you please stop it with the short jokes?". Make these statements while standing with your chin up, shoulders back, and maintaining eye contact with the person teasing you.
 Sometimes, friends or family members may tease you gently as a sign of affection or bonding. However, if teasing in your class causes you psychological distress, meaning you feel upset or sad because of it, then you need to take the proper precautions to Stop Being Bullied.


A bully will usually pick on you nearly everyday, and this person seems to get joy or satisfaction out of your distress. Most of the time, bullies choose targets that are smaller, younger, or less socially connected than them., You may not want to involve an adult, but this may be necessary to stop the teasing before it does too much damage. Pull aside a teacher you trust or speak to your parent or guardian after school about the teasing.The adults will know the appropriate channels to go through to handle a bully., Even if you are the smallest kid in your class, you can still walk with your head held high and back straight. Demonstrating confidence can actually go a long way towards fending off potential bullies since these kids generally target those they view as weak or lacking self-confidence.Suggestions for showing confidence include walking tall and sitting with good posture. Lift your head and look those you talk to straight in the eye. Listen to music that makes you feel more confident or channel your favorite celebrity who is good at portraying terrific self-esteem., You may even take a jab at making fun of yourself. Of course, you should not make yourself feel bad in doing so. Just consider poking fun of yourself showing them that you can be light-hearted, like you don't care about what they say, and those who tease you will probably back off.


An example of using humor could include joking that a taller person is a "giant" when the person refers to you as a "midget". You could also wittily remark that you will never feel cramped in a car or airplane like a taller person. Share some other perks of being short such as those found here.
 While constant teasing is never easy to deal with, the situation may be difficult because you are ashamed of your height. Don't be. Many kids may be shorter in grade school because they haven't reached their growth spurt. Who knows, in a few years you may be towering over all of your peers.


Quiet that inner voice that cringes because you are smaller than your classmates. If you continually beat yourself up because of your size, you are doing just as much damage as your classmates who tease you., One way to start accepting yourself as you are is to play towards your strengths. There is a long list of positives to being smaller than everyone else. You just need to open your eyes to all the possibilities.


Don't think you can't play sports such as basketball due to your height. Many players over the years have excelled at this sport despite their size by using their height as an advantage.
Get ready to surprise your peers. Many of your classmates may look at your size and wrongly assess your abilities. Frequently, shorter people are faster and harder to defend. Prepare to astound your friends with your athletic performance.
Being the smallest person in your class may prove to be beneficial in some situations. Think about it: you will often have the best hiding places during hide and seek because you can squeeze into places larger classmates cannot. Plus, if you're a girl who is interested in cheerleading, being very small might allow you to function as the flyer--the person who gets thrown in the air and does all the crazy, fun stunts.
 Your entire identity should not involve how tall or big you are. If fact, some people have such large personalities that others forget about their height all together. You have certainly done well in many areas such as sports awards and extremely good grades. All of these abilities can help make you feel tall. Every time somebody makes fun of your height, know that you have things to be proud of in your life, and these will make you feel better about yourself.
 While some people will be short for the duration of their lives because of genetics or their environment, there are some things you can do to take charge of your growth and help your body at least look taller.


Promoting strong bones can help you appear taller. Drink more milk or foods rich in calcium and iron such as spinach and beans.If you are slightly overweight, getting adequate physical activity, may help you trim down a few pounds and appear slimmer and, therefore, taller. However, you should only start a weight loss regimen after consultation with your physician.

