 Nobody gets anywhere without practice. You need to invest a quality amount of time into Call of Duty to become an "ultimate player." This is will also help with dedication, in consideration this process can be lengthy.;
, Always go after higher levels such as level 55's. If possible, during a match like "Search and Destroy", whilst your in kill cam, go to the level 55's. By doing this, you are able to watch their actions and predict future moves.
 You need to know the weapons, classes, levels, and techniques. This will allow your knowledge to carry with you while in the heat of battle. A good way to do this, other than playing a traditional match, is playing with a friend and roaming the levels. Use multiple weapons to get a better feel for the game.
 Modern Warfare, World At War, and Modern Warfare 2 are all considered "The Three". These games are what you should attempt to master. If you have the knowledge of all three games, then this should improve your skill in Call of Duty by suggesting different ways to approach situations/other players.
 Shooting is what will get you to be the player you want to be. You have to know where to place the bullets and when to shoot them. Sometimes shooting at the target won't work, due to the targets possibility of moving an inch, which would make you waste ammo.
 Another key is dodging bullets shot at you. If you can not do this, then you'll find yourself dead more than alive. Two great ways to do so is by watching the person and moving the opposite direction that their firing quickly or drop shooting.
 This tactic assists you in going further in the game. It allows a kill with no ammo loss plus a skill increase in one of the less common skills. Practice often to help with this technique.
 No player gets any further without being a master arsonist. You need to know how to place grenades and stun bombs. This way you can use it for your advantage. This can be mastered in almost all of the game plays.
 This step is the same as above, but slightly more time consuming as it takes more practice to place a shot grenade instead of a thrown one.
 There is no doubt that you'll get bored while doing this, but with a promise, it'll all pay off in the end when you start kicking some rear end around on the playing level. Create a dummy account where you can practice or get to know the maps online first hand, if you do bad then it's ok because you are practicing. After you have practiced and feel that you're good and confident enough then create an another account so you can have bragging rights to your friends that you have a high KDR.

