 Your small child depends on your for emotional and physical well-being. If you hit, yell, or use foul language when talking to your child, you'll terrify your child and could cause long-lasting damage.While you still might get angry, tell yourself not to punish or deal with your small child until you're calm. Always avoid hitting or threatening your child.


If you find yourself yelling at your child, try whispering instead. Some teachers say that whispering actually makes the children more likely to listen and pay attention to what you're saying.Small kids look to each other to determine how they feel. So, if you yell at your toddler, your baby might actually start crying.
 Try to relate to what your child is going to. This is useful whether you're frustrated, bored, or trying to have fun with your small kid. Ask yourself what your child must be seeing, thinking, or feeling. Remember that many situations that seem normal to you might be new, frightening, or overwhelming to your small child.


Hunger, thirst, and sleep are also big factors in your child's temperament. If you notice your child suddenly becoming whiny, consider if he may need a snack or a nap.Remember to watch how each child is doing. If you notice one kid become quiet or upset, pull him aside and ask him how he's feeling.
 If your small kid gets worked up easily and is prone to temper tantrums, try to relax him. Ask him to sit near you and read a story. Or, play some calming music. Put on some of your kid's favorite music to help improve his mood.Sometimes, just sitting near your child and connecting with him will make him feel better and can make him more likely to listen to you.
 If you still feel like you don't react or deal with your child the way you'd like, or you find yourself still losing your temper, you might want to talk to a doctor or therapist. Sometimes, talking about your frustrations and expectations with a trained therapist can help you learn to handle childcare situations better.If your child is in school, you might want to discuss your situation with your kid's teacher or the school counselor.
If you're struggling to handle more than one kid, consider putting one of them in a preschool or playschool for a few days a week. This can give you some one-on-one time with another child, or at least give you a little break.

