 If you’re just starting out, you’ll need to work on your writing ability as you start the work of creating a portfolio. Ultimately, you’ll want to fill your portfolio with some of the best samples of your work. Without working on your writing skills, it’ll be tough building a portfolio that will impress a good agent.


Consider taking writing courses at a local college or university.
Read instructional books on writing.
Write as much as you can for a variety of outlets. Try to contribute to your local newspaper, local magazines, websites or blogs, or just about anywhere you can get others to read your writing.;
, Freelance writing work is one of the best ways to hone your skills and to get experience writing for public consumption. As a result, securing some sort of writing job, no matter how informal or consistent, is an extremely important step in your path to secure a writing agent. In the end, freelance work will help you in your goal of creating a portfolio you can submit to agents.


Many of the best agents won’t take on writers who have limited or no experience writing.
Browse the internet, job list websites, or newspapers for writing jobs that might work for you.
If you’re just starting out, most any writing job will work. Remember, the goal here is to get experience so you can begin to hone your craft and build your portfolio., This step is not technically essential, but having a short story or magazine articles to your name proves you're a decent writer and gives you an air of experience. If you’ve been published before, a writing agent will likely take you more seriously.


Submit your work to genre or subject appropriate newspapers, magazines, or journals.
Browse online literary or academic list services or postings about essay collections that you might be able to contribute to.
Generally, the larger and better known a publication your work is published in, the more it’ll count when being viewed by an agent., After you’ve honed your abilities and published your work, you need to begin the process of putting together your portfolio. As a representation of your body of work – and your best work – your portfolio will serve as an ambassador of your abilities.


Include your best work.
Use samples of your work that is best representative of the type of work you want your agent to find you.
Feel free to include a wide variety of your work, but make sure to leave out anything that is mediocre or substandard.
Include a minimum of 3-5 samples., Before you decide on an agent and try to secure their services, you need to think carefully about what you need in an agent. Knowing and understanding what an agent will and can do for you is perhaps one of the most important things you need to do before signing with one.


Many agents specialize in different things. While some may specialize in fiction, others may specialize in more academic work. Know what you want and need before you look for an agent.
Agents work for compensation. Understand how your agent will be compensated. Usually, agents work for a percentage of the project or deal they broker for you. , If you have friends or associates that already have a writing agent, ask them about their agent. They’ll be able to give you great first-hand information about how their agent treats them and how their agent works for them. Ask them:


What type of work/projects/deals their agent has gotten for them.
What sort of fee or commission their agent takes from each project.
How quickly their agent responds to their inquiries., Another way of finding an agent is to spend a little time browsing the internet or trade publications for agents that might work for you. This will help you get some relatively objective information about agents. For instance, consider:


Reading internet reviews about agents you might be considering.
Check out Poets&Writers.org for a list of literary agents.
Pick up a current copy of the writer's and artist's yearbook and browsing the writing agents section., The initiate point of contact between you and an agent will be your query letter. Your query letter is essentially a mini-work prospectus that outlines your work and focuses on your current project (if you are working on a large project). Your query letter is intended to get literary agents excited about your work.


Your query letter should include a genre and a quick plot summary, similar to what you'd see on the back of a book jacket.
If you’re not working on a major project at the time, instead describe your work, major publications, and mention work you are interested in.
Reserve all business details (like word count) for the bottom of the letter.
Mention any writing credits.
The finished letter should be about 200 words., After you have a draft of your query letter, take some time to proofread your letter. This is extremely important since, as a writer, you are expected to be able to write well.


Make sure you avoid obvious mistakes like talking about a "fiction novel" and other redundancies.
Have a friend or colleague proofread the letter for you.
 After you’ve written and corrected your letter, you should send it out to several agents. Sending it to a number of agents is important, as some may not be interested in your work or some may not be accepting new clients at a given time.


Don’t send your letter to more than four agents at any given time.
Remember, sending a query letter to an agent is not any type of commitment on your behalf.
Make sure to read submission guidelines and address your letter to the right person., After agents receive your letter, they may or may not respond. Once one does respond, you should set up a meeting. Meeting with a writing agent is the only way you’ll know if the agent’s personality and professional approach work for you. When arranging a meeting, consider:


Calling them for a quick conversation.
Setting up an in-person meeting. This will enable you to get to the agent better and will better facilitate communication between you.
Setting up a Skype meeting, if you are in different cities. Depending on your location, the best agent for you won’t be in your town or city.
They might be the one invite you to meet. Be open to accepting their invitation.
 No legitimate agent will ever ask you to pay them to represent you. If an agent demands pay to represent you, look elsewhere.


While compensation to agents vary, depending on region and the reputation of an agent or author, you should never have to pay an agent in advance.
Your agent's fee is a percentage of the money you make once signed. If someone asks you to hand over money, they're almost certainly a scam.
If you’re serious about having your work published in order to demonstrate your writing ability (and you want to make money), avoid “vanity presses.” Vanity presses are presses that will publish your work if you pay for the cost of publication. At the same time, avoid agents who recommend vanity presses., Unfortunately, there are scam agents out there that will try to take advantage of struggling or naïve writers. Always be on the lookout for these agents and agencies.


Research them thoroughly and make sure they're right for you. If you got one offer you can get another, and a bad agent is worse than no agent at all.
If an agent tells you to go to a specific editor before they'll represent you, they're probably a scam agency working for the editor.
Never sign over the rights of your work to an agent.
Do not agree to a commission or compensation system that is lopsided – in which they will be making more money than you., In your work to find an agent, much like your writing work, you should never give up. While a lot of agents might not be interested in representing you and your work, you’ll eventually find someone.


Some people say getting an agent is like being struck by lightning; it's all about luck.
Continue writing and honing your craft.
Try to develop new work or enter a new genre.
Keep sending query letters out to other agents.
If an agent tells you to contact them at some later point (and you respect that agent), make sure to contact them.