 Just open your favorite browser, type in Ezine's URL on the address bar, and hit Enter. This will bring you to the Ezine home page where you will need to sign in.;
, Once the login screen loads, enter your email address and password into the text fields, and click on the blue “Log in” button to get to your account.
 Once you are logged into your account, click on your name on the blue banner at the top of the screen. Once the drop-down menu appears, click on “Settings,” the third option down.
 On the Settings page, directly below the gray banner are three tabs. Click on the third tab, which is “Notifications,” to get to its own settings.
 Once Notifications Settings load on your screen, go to the first section, which is Article notifications.


Notice that beside each option are two tick boxes. The first box has a small mail icon above it, which signifies that you will get an email when the action specified occurs.
The second box will have an explanation mark that signifies a normal account notification, which you will see as soon as you log in or instantly if it happens while you are logged in on your account.
 The first option is whether you get a notification when you submit an article. This is good for when you want to ensure that your newly submitted article actually goes through. Click inside the box beside the email, site notification, or both.
 The next notification option pertains to whether you want to know when Ezine approves your articles. This is used so that you can know exactly when your article gets published. You can click inside either box to set your notifications.
 Next, you can choose if you want to be notified when there is a problem with your article. This will give you time to immediately fix it and resubmit it. You can turn this on by checking the boxes beside the option.
 You can use this to keep track of what people’s comments on your articles or what they are talking about on your published posts. The method for turning these notifications on are identical with the above: click inside the box beside the notification type you want.
 This means you will be alerted if there is a problem with one of your articles, and it is not responding to being fixed. You can turn this option on the same way as above: click inside the box beside the notification type you want.


Your preferences are saved automatically, so when you are done they will immediately take effect.

