 Have a litter scoop, broom, dustpan, and some moistened paper towels handy to clean any messes in or around the chinchilla cage.


Daily maintenance of your chinchilla’s cage takes approximately five to ten minutes.;
, Since your daily maintenance won't take very long and doesn't require you to remove much from the cage, you can either clean with your chinchilla in the cage or put it in a safe space.


If you want to put your chinchilla in a different space, consider putting it in a room like the bathroom where you can close the door. You might want to put some food pellets in the room to keep your chinchilla busy and make it feel safe.
 It’s important to refill the food dish so that your chinchilla always has fresh food that will help keep it healthy.Remove any crumbs or other material, such as feces, before you refill the food dish.
If there is urine or feces in the food dish, it’s important to remove the dish and clean it thoroughly either in hot, soapy water or your dishwasher. Allow it to dry thoroughly so bacteria can’t grow., It’s important that your chinchilla have a clean and working water bottle so that he won’t get sick from being dehydrated.Remove any material that might be floating in the water.After you’ve refilled the bottle with clean water, test to make sure it’s flowing properly.
 Remove any feces or other material such as loose fur that might be in your chinchilla’s littler pan. This will help keep them happy and healthy as well as prevent unpleasant odor.
 Your chinchilla may spray or defecate outside the litter pan, and it’s a good idea to remove any dirty hay or shavings. This will keep your chinchilla happy and healthy, and will also prevent odor.
 After you’ve completed the other cleaning tasks, spot clean if needed.


If your chinchilla has sprayed the walls of the cage, wipe them down with a paper towel and a mild disinfectant.Remove any food pellets or hay that may be outside of the cage.
If any material is outside of the cage, clean it up either with a broom or a vacuum.

