 If you feel uncomfortable about any sexual urges you have, do not hesitate to discuss them with a therapist. While a label like mysophilia can help frame your discussions about your experiences, there is plenty of overlap regarding the categorization of different sexual urges, fetishes, and interests.Mental health professionals are well-versed in speaking with people about intimate topics. Never be embarrassed or worried to mention something you would like discuss.
If you are still uncomfortable talking about this with your therapist, consider writing them a letter and bringing it to your session for your therapist to read. This letter should explain your urges and your goals for therapy.
Ask your general practitioner for recommendations for therapists in your area, or search online for local therapists that specialize in sorting through issues regarding sex and sexuality.
The American Board of Sexology (http://www.americanboardofsexology.com/), The American College of Sexologists (http://www.americancollegeofsexologists.org/), and The Society for the Advancement of Sexual Health (http://www.sash.net/) can all help connect you with a sex therapist in your area.
 Pursuing treatment for conditions such as mysophilia is generally your choice. If your urges become problematic or you simply want to minimize their presence in your life, there are several treatment options. Note that none of the treatment methods for conditions are guaranteed to work, and they are all unlikely to totally eliminate the urges you experience.It’s important to recognize that many people with different types of fetishes come to manage their urges and find gratification in safe, appropriate, and consensual ways.
 Group therapy can be an incredibly beneficial way to receive support from others who experience similar urges. Not only will you learn ways to appropriately handle urges when they arise, you may also learn ways to channel your sexual energy into appropriate contexts.Note that there are 12 step programs designed for people struggling with sexuality issues, as well as more informal group therapy options. You can find more information of 12 step groups at websites like Sober Nation (https://sobernation.com/list-of-12-step-programs/).
While some groups will focus on treating conditions like mysophilia, others will focus more on living happily with the condition. For the latter, look into a local "kink" support group.
Ask your therapist or search online for support groups of all sorts in your area.

