 The first thing you need to do is sterilize the scissors you will be using to snip off the skin tag. You can do this using a few different methods. The most thorough way is to use an autoclave (sterilization device) but you may not have one readily available and they can be expensive to buy.


Cheaper alternatives include thoroughly cleaning the scissors with some rubbing alcohol and a cotton ball, or boiling the scissors in a pot of water for ten minutes .
Wash your hands with an anti-bacterial soap and carefully place the sterilized scissors on a clean towel and leave to dry. Avoid touching the sterilized blade from this point on.
 This will extend the skin tag and give you more space to get the scissors as close to the base of the tag as possible. Before you do this, you can numb the area with a little ice to minimize pain, however removing the skin tag is no more painful than a pinch, so this is probably unnecessary.
 Position the scissors slowly and carefully to ensure that you will snip the skin tag as close to the base as possible, without cutting the surrounding skin. Once you are in position, snip quickly to minimize pain. It should feel like a quick pinch.


Instead of using a sterilized scissors, it is possible to used a nail clippers to remove the skin tag instead. The nail clippers may be easier to use if the skin tag is on the back of your neck, or anywhere hard to reach.
Just be sure to sterilize the nail clippers using one of the methods outlined above before using.
 The base of the skin tag will probably bleed a little after cutting, but this is normal. Take care to disinfect the area before covering, as the last thing you want is to develop an infection. Use a little rubbing alcohol or iodine on a cotton ball to do this.


Cover the area with a skin-colored band-aid and allow the skin tag at least 24 hours to heal.
If any signs of infection should develop, such as swelling, tenderness, redness or oozing around the wound, consult your doctor immediately.

