 Great fabric choices include: cotton, flannel, satin, and wool.You will need fabric for the main, outer part of your cape, and a lighter fabric for the lining. They can be matching colors and patterns, or contrasting ones.


Consider using a pattern for one side and a solid color for the other.
You can use cotton for both sides of the cape since it is light enough.;
, Measure around the base of your neck. Next, measure down from your shoulder down to where you want the cape to end. Record both of your measurements.For something more cloak-like, measure down to your ankles or mid-calves.
For something more like a caplet, measure down to just past your elbows.
 Use a calculator to divide your neck measurement by 2. Divide the answer by pi or 3.14. Round the measurement up to the nearest quarter inch (half centimeter). This is your radius., Begin by folding the fabric in half widthwise. Fold it in half again, also widthwise, to form a square. Rotate the fabric so that the folded corner is in the upper left-hand corner.Don't fold the lining fabric just yet., Pin a piece of string to the top-left corner of your fabric, where the folds are. Tie a dressmaker's chalk or pen to the string so that it's the same length as your neck radius. Use the chalk/pen like a compass to draw an arch from the top edge of the fabric over to the left side edge., Add your radius measurement to your desired length measurement. Lengthen the string according to that new measurement. Draw a second arch to make the bottom of your cape., When you are done, fold your lining fabric into fourths, then place your cut fabric on top. Cut your lining using the cut outer fabric as a guide., Unfold your outer and lining pieces and stack them together. Fold them in half widthwise so that you get a semi-circle. Cut along the left folded edge; leave the other one alone. This will create the opening of your cape.

Save a step and stack your fabric together with the right sides facing in.
 Unfold your fabric semi-circles. Stack them together, right sides facing in. Make sure that all of the edges are aligned, then start pinning them together., Cut two 30-inch (76.2-centimeter) long pieces of ribbon. Unpin your cape at the top two corners to either side of the opening. Tuck the ribbons into the cape. Make sure that the ends are aligned with the edges of the cape, then pin them shut. The ribbons should be sandwiched between both layers of fabric.Give your ribbons a nicer finish by sealing the ends with a flame first.
Choose a wide ribbon that coordinates with your cape. Something around 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) wide would be ideal.
If you don't want a ribbon closure, skip this step.
 You want to sew along the inside collar, bottom edge, and the two straight edges. Leave a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) gap along the bottom of one straight edge for turning.Make you sewing stronger by backstitching at the start and end.


If you added a ribbon closure, be careful not to sew across the ribbons!

, Cut some notches into the collar, about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) apart. Cut some slits into the bottom curve, about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) apart. At the end, clip the top and bottom corners of your opening. This will help the cape lay smoother.

Try to cut as close to the stitching as you can without actually cutting through it.
 Use something blunt but pointy, such as a knitting needle, to help fill out the corners. Tuck the raw edges of your turning gap in until they match up with the rest of the cape, and pin them in place. Iron your cape flat., You can do this by hand using a ladder stitch. You can also topstitch all the way around the cape using a matching thread color and a ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) seam allowance. Remove the pins when you are done., You can stitch in a clasp-style close, a hook-and-eye-closure, or even a corded frog closure. Choose one that matches the style of your cape the best.

If you added a ribbon closure, skip this step.

