 You can use things such as balloons and banners themed towards the milestone. This will show to your students that the 100th day of school is an important milestone and is something that should be celebrated.;
, Having a special homework assignment would be not only fun, but also a great way of celebrating the milestone. For example, you could have your students collect 100 of something of their choice, or build something with 100 things of their choice. You may also want to give homework assignments on the 100th day that are related to the number 100.
 For example:


Teach your students about events that happened 100 years ago.
For younger students, teach them about the number 100.
Have your students count to 100. Mix it up at times by having them count by 2's, by 5's, by 10's, etc.
Read books about the 100th day of school, or something related to the number 100. You can find a lot of books online or in your local library.
Do math problems and activities related to the number 100. For example, you can have your students write about what they would do with $100, or find different ways to make $100.
Do the 100th Day Challenge, where students find different ways to represent the number 100 through the means of arithmetic.
Have your students write about what they think the world will be like in 100 years.
Have your students write 100 words that they know.
 You could do arts and crafts, painting, games, or anything else you could think of that your students would have fun with. You can theme these towards the number 100, too.
 This could be through pictures, a scrapbook, or anything else you have in your classroom. This is a great way for you and your students to reminisce about the last 100 days of school.
 You can ask the students to bring in food and/or snacks, or bring some in yourself. You'll want to have a cake, too. You could also bring in lunch for the students to have, if you have the money to do so and if your school allows it. Bringing in pizza would be a good idea in this case.

