 A sniper must often wait a while until the enemy shows up or until there is a good chance of easy engagement.;
, Most Airsoft Snipers upgrade their sniper rifles as most of the "stock" (just bought ones) are often just as powerful as some Assault Rifles.
 0.20g BBs are most popular for all Airsofters but Airsoft Snipers often choose 0.25g or 0.30g BBs for better accuracy. Make sure they are well made to prevent damage to your gun.
 Scope is very useful in ranges and zooming in helps you to aim. I would recommend a scope with at least 4x zoom.
 This helps you to prevent being seen by the enemy.
 It is useful as most professionally organized Airsoft teams use common tactics, which sometimes (depends on situation you are in) can be easily overtaken by that one or more snipers. Also don't forget that you are not to see frontline engagements but to support your team from a distance so make sure you stick to it.
 Your own garden is good one for practice. Get to know your rifle's capabilities and practice more until your shooting accuracy gradually improves.
 Snipers don't move as much as most Airsofters but if they do then they require much more speed and must be fitter. This is caused by the fact that once a sniper is seen by the enemy they need to either engage or run to cover.
 Sometimes you might see only one or two opponents but when you hit them then you might get a whole team after you. Also if the enemy team is well organized and has a squad leader then he or she should be your primary target. This will make confusing within your opponents and strike fear within their hearts.
 Watch if there is anything that you can use to hide (such as bushes) and look out for any opponents. The most dangerous opponents are enemy snipers so keep an eye for them!

, Some snipers often just stand around and get shot easily. Walk slowly around, keeping an eye on everything, keep finger on the trigger, keep heart rate low and breathe slowly.
 Instead of moving loud around the battlefield move slowly but quietly.
 A successful sniper is the one that enemy is really afraid of.

