 A watch winder is a device that keeps automatic watches wound when they are not being worn by moving the watch in a circular pattern to mimic the movement of a human’s arm. These can range in price from $50 to $400, with top-of-the-line models costing up to $8,000. There are functional, elegant and extravagant models of watch winders.


Functional watch winders may be display-friendly, with nice designs; but their purpose is almost entirely functional. These are usually on the less expensive end of the scale. Cheap watch winders can be very unreliable and are not worth the price, even if it’s low.
Elegant watch winders have finer quality exteriors made of wood or leather, and they are more usually display-friendly, ready to sit on a shelf or dresser. They can still be small enough to fit in a drawer or safety deposit box.
Extravagant watch winders are at the top of the price range. These are usually constructed out of fine materials and made to hold multiple watches. They may have features such as temperature control, storage drawers, synchronized time displays, and USB connections.
 There are winders for single watches or for multiple watches. If you have a rotation of watches that you wear frequently, you may opt to get a watch winder that can hold several watches at once. If you have just one watch that you wear frequently, a single watch winder might be more useful.


If you have watches you wear only once in a while, such as for a special occasion, then you don’t really need to bother putting it in a watch winder. If you know you will be wearing a watch to a wedding, for example, you can take it out the day before and wind it on your own, rather than going to the trouble of setting it in the watch winder for 30 minutes every day.
Watch winders are good for collectors of automatic watches, especially if you have a large collection and want any one of your watches to be ready to go at a moment’s notice.
 Many automatic watches rely on clockwise motion, while others rely on counter-clockwise or bi-directional movement. Check with your watch’s manufacturer to figure out which motion your watch needs.