 One of the best ways to maintain your weight long-term is to be active. Studies have shown that those who exercise on a regular basis maintain their weight easier compared to those who are not active.Regular physical activity actually helps you maintain your weight much more than it does for weight loss.
Include at least 30 minutes of aerobic activity daily and two to three days of strength training throughout the week., Taking care of stress is another important item to keep in mind when you're trying to maintain your weight. Stress can make healthy eating and sticking to healthy habits more difficult.High amounts of stress can cause increased appetite and cravings for more indulgent foods.If you're feeling stressed, try to engage in other activities to help calm you down or make you feel more relaxed. You can: go for walk, talk to a friend, read a good book, take a long shower, or listen to good music.
If you find that stress is something that you encounter frequently and it makes it harder for you to maintain your weight, it may be helpful to see a behavioral specialist or therapist. They'll be able to give you more guidance to stress management.
 Sleep is important for your general health and many studies have shown that lack of sleep has a significant affect on your appetite and hunger levels.When you don't sleep enough you may experience increased hunger throughout the day.This may make it difficult to make healthy choices, follow portion sizes or pass up on a snack.
Try to hit the sack early enough that you can get in the recommended seven to nine hours of shut eye each night.
Go to bed earlier, set your alarm later (if you can) and shut off all lights and electronics.
 You may have tried a variety of different diets in the past. What made you successful in some of those diets may be behaviors that you need to continue in order to maintain your weight loss. Maintaining weight less about dieting and more about making permanent changes to your lifestyle — how you eat, your relationship with food, etc. Even if you are no longer following a diet to the letter, try to stick with the concepts that made you successful (making half your plate a fruit or vegetable, eating only lean proteins, etc.).


If you completely give up the good habits you picked up and learned through diets and go back to old habits, you're at risk for regaining your weight.
Think about the small lifestyle changes you made that helped you lose weight. It might include measuring portions, writing a food journal, keeping tempting trigger foods out of your house or being active regularly. Keep these changes in place.
If they feel too difficult to keep in place or not fit into your lifestyle, change them as needed so they can continue to be an easy to keep change in your life.
 Support is important for both weight loss and maintenance; however, the type of support you need may differ.


When you surround yourself with others who are physically active, eat well and engage in other healthy behaviors, you're more likely to do so yourself.Find friends or family members that have the same mindset or life goals as you do. You may find it easier to continue with your healthy lifestyle when you surround yourself with these types of people.
You may also want to find an online support group. This will be helpful if you don't have many friends or family members with the same healthy mindset.

