 A poncho jacket is a pretty quick project, but you will need some special tools and materials to create one. You will need:1 yard of material for the outer layer, such as wool or denim
1 yard of material for the inner layer, such as satin or fleece
a jacket that fits you well
a pair of scissors
pins
a zipper (long enough for the length of the poncho you want to create)
a sewing machine;
, Fold your fabric pieces in half one at a time. Make sure that the edges are lined up evenly. Then, lay one folded piece on top of the other. Line up the folded edges, but do not worry if the other edges do not line up.If your fabrics are different sizes, then place the smaller piece on top of the larger piece.
 Lay a jacket that fits you well next to the folded edge of your fabric. Use the neckline of this jacket to help you determine how wide to make the opening of your poncho jacket. Cut through the two fabric pieces so that the opening will be the same width as your jacket neckline’s opening.








Make each of the cuts a few inches long.
 Next, start at the end of one of the neckline cuts you made and continue cutting down towards the outer edge of the fabric. The line should slant down and out. Repeat the same cut on the other side of the fabric.
 The next cut you will need to make is along the folded edges of your fabric pieces, which is the area where the neck opening of your jacket will be. Cut along the folds at the neckline, but do not separate the pieces yet.
 To create the bottom of your jacket, fold the fabric pieces in half lengthwise. Then, begin cutting along the bottom of the fabric pieces in a rounded shape.








Continue cutting until you reach the center of the fabric.
Go slowly and try to make the edges as even as possible.
When you are done, you will have four separate pieces of fabric instead of two. These are the pieces that you will use to put your poncho jacket together.
 You will need to layer your fabric pieces to get them ready to sew. First, pull apart the four fabric pieces and set them aside. Pick up one of the wool pieces and place it right side down. Then, pick up one of the satin pieces and place it right side up over top of the wool piece.








Line up the edges of the two pieces so that they are even with each other. Smooth them out as well.
Repeat this with your other piece of satin and wool.
 Your satin piece will need to be a little smaller than your wool piece, so you will need to trim around the edges. Take your scissors and trim about ¼ of an inch off of the outside of the satin piece. Trim all the way around the satin piece.








Keep in mind that satin is slippery. Some people find it easier to work with satin when they lay another material over the top of it, such as paper.Try using a piece of paper to hold the satin in place as you cut. Hold the paper in place with one hand and cut along the edge with the other.
When you are done trimming, reposition the satin fabric so that the edges are about the same distance from the edges of the wool piece.
Trim the edges of your other piece of satin as well.
 Secure the satin fabric into place with some pins. When pinning fabric, insert the pin from the top near the outer edge, push the pin in slightly, and then push the pin back up and through the fabric.Place pins every few inches all the way around the edge of the fabric.








Make sure that all of your pins go through both layers of fabric.
Pin both sets of satin and wool fabric.
 After you have pinned your fabrics together, take the pieces to the sewing machine and sew the satin piece onto the wool piece. Make the stitch about ½” away from the edge of the satin. Stitch all the way around the edge of the satin piece.








Satin can develop tears and pulled threads if the needle on your machine is dull. If it has been a while, replace the needle with a new, sharp one.Remove the pins as you go.
Start sewing the edges of the other satin and wool piece after you finish the first one.
 After you have finished stitching the satin onto the wool fabric, you can hem the edges of your first piece. To hem the edges, fold them over so that the edge of the wool fabric overlaps the stitch you made in the satin fabric. Then, either pin the fabric in place to hold the fold or just sew it right away.








The fold should be about a ½” wide all the way around the edges of the fabric.
If you decide to sew without pinning first, make sure that you check the edges often to see how well they are lining up.
Do not hem the second piece of wool and satin just yet. You will need to place the zipper on this piece before you hem the edges.
 Take your wool and satin piece that you have not yet hemmed and find the center of the neckline. Then, cut a straight line down from the center of the neckline to the bottom edge of the jacket.








You may want to sue a piece of paper again to hold the satin in place.Press down on the paper with one hand and cut through the satin and wool with the other hand.
 Turn one of your pieces over so that the wool fabric is on top. Then place your zipper against the edge so that the front of the zipper is facing the floor and the fabric edge of the zipper is lined up with the edge of the wool. Place pins through the wool and the zipper to hold the fabric in place.








Make sure that the pins go through the satin fabric as well.
 After you have pinned the zipper onto the fabric, you can begin to sew. Use a straight stitch to sew the zipper onto the fabric.








If your machine has a zipper attachment, then you can use this piece to sew on the zipper, but it is not necessary.Repeat for the other side.
 When you have finished sewing the zipper onto both sides, you can hem the edges of this piece. Hem the edges the same way that you did with the first piece, but do not sew across the areas between the zipper.








Make sure that you fold over the fabric at the neckline and bottom of the jacket piece to cover the zipper.
 Line up your two jacket pieces so that the wool sides are facing each other and so that the edges are lined up. Pin the long straight edges together to secure them. Then, begin sewing. Sew a straight stitch about ½” to 1” from the edges of the fabric.








If you have a serger, then you can serge the edges instead.
 After you finish sewing, you will need to trim away some of the excess fabric so that the jacket will be a little more comfortable. Trim about ½” away from the seam.








Do not trim the excess fabric if you used a serger.
 Sleeves are optional for this jacket, but adding sleeves is a nice touch. If you want your jacket to have designated openings for your arms, then you can add some faux sleeves by sewing a few inches up from the bottom edge of the jacket on both sides.








First, decide where you want your sleeves to start and end. Make sure that you leave enough room for the sleeves to be loose, but not so loose that you cannot fit into the jacket.
Try on the jacket as is and pinch the fabric around your arms to determine where an ideal spot for sleeves might be. Then, mark these areas with a couple of pins on each side.
Start sewing near the bottom edge and sew straight up towards the neckline. Make each of the stitches a few inches long.
After you finish the sleeves, your poncho jacket is complete!

