 Let past experiences be a lesson to you while letting future dreams guide you, but live your life in the present. If you want to live an exceptional life you must discover who truly are by not worrying about things that have not happened yet. Concentrating on the here and now will have a positive effect on your emotional well-being.Spending too much time thinking about the past or pondering the future limits your ability to move forward at the present time.
By living in the present moment, you are accepting everything for what it is worth, that things are complete or whole. At this point, you can forgive yourself for mistake and achieve a piece of mind knowing that all things happen for a reason.
Refuse to engage in fearful thinking about the future. If you worry too much about potential disasters in the future you will get mired in doubt and this thinking will impact what you believe to be your purpose in life is.
 Do the things in life that make you happy so that you can continuously engage with life and the world around you. When you know and understand yourself, you know what you want in life and don’t have to hide behind a mask. In this way, you will build a more meaningful life.“Self” in this understanding is your unique, individual, and special self who exhibits passions, strengths, and desires that come to life, not the “self” of what others expect of you.
Relinquish expectations so that you can focus more on yourself rather than on the tasks of a project or conversation. Examine your own expectations and then let them go so that you can be the real you.
The same goes for conditional relationships. Trying to live up to someone else’s expectations gives you little time to discover what you really want. Expectations will only force you to move further away from your true self.
By taking care of your “self” and passing up expectations, you will align yourself with your true purpose and meaning of your life.
 Take off the mask and stop living lies to please others. Lying to others is, in reality, lying to yourself. Don’t try to live someone else’s dream and get off the path that other expect you to take. Instead, find your own authentic self by expressing the truth and confronting your fears.Suppressing your feelings or following a path that is not your own is not living your “authentic self.” For example, keeping your sexual orientation a secret, living in an abusive marriage, or working in an unfulfilling career are all paths that were not chosen. Once those barriers can be overcome, then pursuit of the true self can begin.
First, admit the truth and, second, express the truth to yourself. If you cannot express the truth verbally, keep a journal for your thoughts and self-reflection.
Truth is often concealed out of fear, but keeping fear inside without confronting it could create mental, physical, and emotional trauma that will form barriers to discovering the real you.
Stand up for what you believe in, not what you were taught to believe. Discovering yourself is finding out what you truly believe in.

