 Don't work out any one muscle group more than twice a week. Your muscles need time to rest and repair in between workout sessions - that's when they build and get stronger. You can work your pecs and abs on the same days, or alternate days. Either way will be just as effective.


Set a schedule for yourself so you never skip a workout. Committing to your workout regimen will increase your chances of success.
 When your aim is to build muscle, it's important to put your best effort into every workout. Do your best to complete each exercise using the proper form, and make every crunch, bench press or leg lift as high-intensity as possible. Anything less than your best effort isn't going to give you the results you want.









Your workout sessions should be about 30 minutes long. During that time, go all in - don't take a lot of long breaks. Maximize your time in the gym.
Do your reps quickly. Performing your exercises faster puts more stress on your muscles, resulting in faster growth.
Don't work out so hard that you end up injuring yourself. Your exercises will not be comfortable, but you shouldn't be in any kind of extreme pain. If you do feel excruciating pain, stop immediately.
 This means doing one type of exercise right after another without a break in between. Supersets make your muscles work harder, and can be an effective way to build muscle fast. For example, immediately follow your bench press with a few sets of pushups.
 This is called bracing your core. When lifting heavy weights you should always tighten your abdomen to avoid back injury. This has two additional positive effects on your workout. First, you end up strengthening your abs as you work out your pecs. Second, tensing your core will give you a lot more power during your pecs exercises. This will help you see results much faster than if you don't pay attention to your abs during your pecs workouts.
 You'll end up plateauing if you don't. Once you find you're able to easily bench a certain weight for more than 10 reps, it's time to add more weight. Same goes for all the other weighted exercises - when you can lift more than the recommended amount of reps without feeling the burn, add weight to keep the pressure on your muscles to continue building.


Don't be tempted to add more weight than you can handle. You could injure yourself - completely negating all your hard efforts - if you try to lift too much. If a certain amount of weight is too heavy to lift more than 5 times before giving out, you're lifting too much.
 your muscles could get bored of doing crunches and start to plateau. Do new exercises to work your abs at every possible spot. For instance, you could do the wood chop, plank and reverse crunch for one week, and knees up crunches, Russian twists and side planks the other week.
 Working out your entire body is key when you're trying to build muscle. If you neglect your legs, back and arms, your pecs and abs won't get as strong. Plus, you don't want to have a really muscular upper body with really skinny legs.









It is very important to balance chest work with back work to prevent muscle imbalances, a rounded chest, or spinal misalignment. Lat pull downs, chin-ups, superman exercises, and rows are all good exercises to work your back as well.
 Perform cardiovascular exercise, like running, biking and swimming, no more than a few times a week. Your body needs to burn fat so that your abs will be visible, and cardio will help with full-body weight loss. However, doing too much cardio will use up the energy that you need to spend on building your muscles. Doing cardio no more than a couple times a week is best.









The minimum amount of recommended cardio is 150 minutes of moderate exercise or 75 minutes of vigorous cardio exercise a week.

