 Finding exactly what an employer is looking for will help cater your resume objective to the specific job that you're seeking. Look for traits that the company is looking for and try to relate it to skills that you possess. Instead of copying the exact wording of the job description, think of different ways that you can explain your positive traits using different words.For example, if the job listing is looking for an IT professional "with knowledge of multiple programming languages" you can write that you have "a full grasp on CSS, PHP, and Java.";
, The introduction for your resume objective should explain who you are and why you are applying for the job. Start your objective by talking about your major in school or the experience that you have.For example, a good opening would be "Third-year law student with one year of experience working as a paralegal for Smith & Co."

, The next part of your resume objective should be a positive characteristic that you can bring to the position you're applying to. Relate the trait to the job listing and then cite the job title itself. Think of things that set you apart from the rest and that also relates to the duties that you'd have to do if you got the job.


You can say something like, "Looking to leverage my research and organizational skills as an associate researcher for your organization."
Or you could say, "Seeking to leverage my customer service and PR skills to become a account executive with your organization."

, Locate keywords within the job listing and end your statement by emphasizing how your skills and traits match with the position. Keywords include adjectives like team player, organized, reliable, disciplined, hardworking, and dedicated.You can say something like "I'm disciplined and hardworking and will go above and beyond on whatever I'm doing."
The full resume objective would read, "Third-year law student with one year of experience working as a paralegal for Smith & Co. Looking to leverage my research and organizational skills as an associate researcher for your organization. I'm disciplined and hardworking and will go above and beyond the scope of the position."

, If you have little to no experience, you can write about how your experiences in school or clubs can translate to your new job. Think of your wok ethic or skills you gained at school, and write down a list of traits that might relate to the job.For example, if you are academically excellent you can say you are "driven, organized, or a quick learner."
If you were great in sports you can say that you're a "team player, disciplined, or strategic".
If you were part of a community drama club, you can say that you're "creative or expressive".

