 For a plastic bottle piggy bank, there are lots of things you'll need to transform a bottle into a bona fide piggy bank. These supplies can all be bought from your local arts store. It is likely you'll be able to find some (if not most) of the supplies in your house already.


An empty plastic bottle. This will be the case of your piggy bank.
A box cutter and scissors, used to cut the pieces.
A hot glue gun, for gluing pieces together. You should always have an adult with you when using hot glue.
A paper egg carton and pipe cleaner.
Decoration supplies. It's recommended you use markers, acrylic paint and googly eyes, although other things like construction paper and pink spray paint will help get the best pig-like appearance.;
, There's no set limit to how big or small your piggy bank should be. You should, however, aim for a plastic bottle that's between 500-1000ml. Wash it out with water. Dry it afterwards by catching the excess water with some paper towel.Keep the bottle cap on the bottle. It will serve as the pig’s snout., Get an adult to slice a coin slot into the middle of one of the long sides using a box cutter.If you're not sure whether the hole is big enough, try sliding coins in. If they don't fit, you know you have to make them bigger. A coin slot will need to be at least 1 inch long to fit a standard US quarter. The size of your slot should depend on the biggest coin you're planning on fitting into it.
 Cut out four sections from paper egg carton to use as legs using scissors. Have an adult use a low-heat hot glue gun to attach them to the side of the bottle opposite the coin slot you cut, so that when the pig stands on them the slot faces up. The open side of the carton should face into the bottle. That way, the pig's legs will look solid.
 This step is optional, as a piggy bank can have a certain homemade charm if left as is. Many normal arts and crafts supplies, like markers and tempera or acrylic paint, will adhere poorly to the plastic bottle. You do have a few other options, though:


Spray paint the legs and body pink. Remember, always use spray paint in a well-ventilated, outdoor area.
Collage over it with tissue paper and an acrylic decoupage medium (you’ll find it in the glue section of any arts and crafts supply store). Apply a thin layer of decoupage medium onto a small section of the water bottle with a paintbrush, lay a piece of tissue paper on top of it, and brush another thin layer of medium on top of that. Keep going until the whole thing is covered.
Wrap the bottle with felt or construction paper, and paint the cardboard feet pink with tempera or acrylic paint., Now that you’ve got a basic pig shape, it’s time to get artistic with your creation. Adding many of these touches will require a hot glue gun, so it is advised you have an adult around to help you with these parts:Make a tail by twisting a pink pipe cleaner into a spiral and having an adult help you hot glue it to the pig’s bottom (opposite the face end.)
Give the pig eyes by hot gluing googly eyes onto its face, or by drawing, cutting out, and gluing on your own eyes.
Draw nostrils onto the pig’s snout with a black marker.
Cut two triangles out of pink paper or felt, and glue them on as ears.
 Now that you've got the finished product, put it somewhere in your room and deposit coins whenever you come into pocket money. Although plastic bottle piggy banks don't come with a natural opening slot, small coins can fit out by unscrewing the bottle cap. You can withdraw coins once the piggy bank is full by taking a box cutter to the back of the bottle and pouring out the coins. The hind section can always be re-taped if you want to keep using it.

