 Challenge yourself to achieve or do something specific. It should be something that will require an effort, but that’s also do-able. Every goal you meet is an opportunity to build your confidence in your ability to rise to the challenge.Take time to reflect on something that you’d like to do or achieve to better yourself. It could be something as simple as practicing your guitar for 30 minutes each day or improving your grade in French.
It’s also good to challenge yourself to do things that you know you may fail at, like auditioning for a school play. The more you try, the more you’ll learn to confidently keep trying even when things don’t go your way.
 You can choose who to spend your time with. Don’t waste it on peers who damage your confidence with criticism, cruelty, or peer pressure to act against your values, desires, or instincts. Instead, seek friendships with those who are caring and supportive of who you are., If you have a strong interest in a subject, sport, or hobby, like math, dance, or playing the mandolin, pursue it. Take lessons, enroll in a class, or join a club where you can turn your passions into skills that you’ll love to keep working at and improving on.Besides giving your confidence in your own ability a boost, cultivating your talents can also open up a new community. Having supportive friend and peers really helps to keep your self-esteem high.
 When you donate your time and effort to a good cause, it helps you feel good because you’re doing something important and meaningful. Plus, people are grateful for your service. Knowing that you’re practicing good values and creating value for your community can be a real confidence booster.Volunteering also offers you an important sense of perspective. While seventh grade may be tough, getting involved with the wider community is a good reminder that the world is much bigger than any current problems you may be facing.
See if your school has any community service programs that you can join. Churches, community centers, and local nonprofits are also great places to check for volunteering opportunities.

