 A half-step bend is a bend that moves down one fret, meaning the note you've bent so it sound's exactly like one fret down. A full-step bend moves two frets down. To really improve as a guitarist, check your tone at the top of the bend. Get used to moving right down to other notes in the scale, keeping your playing melodic and on-key.









Check your tone against a normally picked note. For example, bend the 3rd fret all the way to the 5th fret. Then pick the 5th fret normally to check if they sound the same.
 If you're bending heavy strings or just want a little extra stretch for a huge bend, you can hook your thumb over the top of the neck, allowing you to squeeze your fingers and thumbs together like a clamp. This little extra leverage can make all the difference for a big bend.
 You do not always have to push up on the strings. You get the exact same effect by pulling down -- and this is much easier with the high strings anyway. Use whatever direction feels comfortable for you in the moment, since neither is wrong or right.









When bending down, it can help to angle your fingers slightly above the string, allowing you to pull them down towards your palm.
 Vibrato is when you lightly bend the string back and forth, making the note waver or vibrate. A lot of players will shake the note in or out of the bend, or shake it slightly at the top of their bend, for a little extra flavor on the note.









If you're playing electric, try using the wammy bar for similar effects.
 Remember, it is best to bend to another note in the scale for the best effects. As such, you need to practice playing your scales with bends to find out where everything sounds best. Try playing the blues pentatonic scale first, as the simple, boxy form is perfect to practice bends. For example, look at some of the possible bends you have in a simple A-minor pentatonic scale:










Half-Step Bends:

5th string -- 5th and 6th frets.
3nd string -- 7th fret



Full Bends:

6th string -- 8th fret
5th string -- 5th fret
4th string -- 5th fret
3rd string -- 5th fret, 7th fret
2nd string -- 8th fret
1st string -- 8th fret