 The supplies for this costume can be bought at your local florist or in many home and garden sections of general retailers. When choosing flowers, select blooms that match the atmosphere of your event. For example, in winter you might want white and blue blooms, or in summer you might want orange and red. In all, you'll need:


Floral tape
Floral wire
Flowers
Ribbon
Sturdy scissors (or shears), Take the end of your ribbon and wrap it around your head. Hold the ribbon where it crosses itself at the back of your head. Use your scissors to cut the ribbon at this point. Then measure and cut a piece of floral wire that is about as long as the distance between your temples.


With projects like this, it's always best to measure a little longer than necessary. You can always trim off excess, but adding new ribbon can make the appearance of your crown less pleasing., Line up the ends of your ribbon and wire. One end of your ribbon should extend well beyond your wire. Then use a simple knot to tightly secure the aligned ends of your wire and ribbon together.
 Use your scissors to cut each flower you intend to add to your crown so that each has about 3" to 4" (7.6 to 10.2 cm) of stem remaining. You may want to cut your stems on the long side. Just like your ribbon, excess stems can be easily trimmed down when your crown is finished.In place of real flowers, a cheaper alternative might be to fold paper flowers or tissue paper flowers. Add these to your crown in the same fashion described for the real flowers.
 Lay your ribbon and its attach floral wire on a flat surface in front of you. Line up the blooms of your flowers so they extend slightly beyond the top edge of the ribbon. When you are satisfied with the arrangement of flowers, one flower at a time:


Use your tape to securely wrap the stem, ribbon, and floral wire together. Wrap from the top of the stem downward. Each flower and stem you add should point in the same direction.
Add flowers so that each slightly overlaps the previously added flower. This will give your crown a full appearance.
Make sure that each stem is firmly attached to the ribbon and floral wire with tape. Continue to add flowers until you reach the end of the floral wire., After you've reached the end of your floral wire, you can add more flowers facing in the opposite direction. Do this in the fashion previously described. Once you are finished, tie off the free end of the floral wire so it doesn't poke you, tie the crown around your head, and enjoy.