 You can keep everything else the same, since the water is there to prevent burning, not actually diluting the butter. Keep the butter and water ratio the same and simply adjust the amount of bud you grind in. You can also adjust the cooking times, cooking less for less potent weed, but this is just a waste of weed -- fewer buds cooked for a longer time will get the same results.


1 ounce of buds will lead to some strong, strong butter, but you should probably use 1 1/2 ounces if you only have shake or leaves.If you use a lot more than 1 ounce, you will want to add more butter to absorb all of the THC. However, 1-ounce weed per pound of butter is usually more than enough marijuana.
 The following method is for smaller batches, and reliably turns out a half cup of marijuana butter quickly and easily. This method does not require a "pre-bake." To make it:


Finely grind up 1/4 ounce of cannabis buds (not shake or leaves)
Heat 1/2 cup of butter until melted in a saucepan on medium heat
Add the buds slowly, stirring frequently.
Simmer for 45 minutes, stirring often. There should only be small bubbles on the butter's surface.
Strain through a strainer and cheesecloth.
Chill and use., A simple Crockpot is the perfect way to get the "long and slow" cooking that you're after. To pull it off, all you need to do is:


Mix 1 cup water, 1 lb butter, and 1-ounce ground marijuana in the slow cooker.
Turn the cooker on low and stir.
Cover the cooker and let simmer for 8-24 hours, stirring occasionally., Clarified butter has been separated, isolating the essential milk fats. It will absorb the THC better and cook much more cleanly, with less smoke if you accidentally overheat things., This scientific little trick helps break down the cellulose in your buds, leading greater THC release and a less green final color. However, this only works if you do the decarboxylation step (pre-bake). Simply spray the buds after the come out of the oven and let them sit for 10-15 minutes while you start melting the butter., This recipe uses the nifty cooking trick of blanching, rapidly heating and cooling the buds, to remove chlorophyll and other stinky chemicals. To pull it off, you need to be prepared to pre-bake as well, so get ready for a several-hour cook. That said, blanching is easy:


Bring a large pot of water to a boil.
Set aside another bowl and fill it with ice water.
Place your ground up weed in a tea ball, then dunk it in the boiling water for 5 minutes.
Remove weed ball and place immediately in the ice bath for 1 minute.
Repeat until all the weed is blanched
Pre-bake the weed at 220°F for one hour to dry out.
Make your cannabutter like normal.