 These lures are meant to ripple the water surface with popping and splashing as you retrieve it.In the spring, bright colors work best. In the fall and winter, black, white or gray work well.
Choose topwaters that produce a lot of noise and splash to get the bass' attention.
 Topwater lures come in walkers, poppers, wakebaits, minnows/twitch baits, prop baits, buzzbaits, and frogs. Each different type of topwater lure is most effective in different conditions.Walkers are most effective when covering a lot of top water quickly because it keeps the bait in striking distance for the bass.
Poppers should be deployed when fishing around stumps, docks, bushes, rocks, and small areas that are covered because these lures will aggravate bass into biting.
Wakebaits work best in clear water when fish are attracted to the V shaped wake.
Minnows/twitch baits excel in clear lakes or small areas where bass may spook at aggressive lures. They are great during spawning when bass are guarding their nests.
Prop baits should be used in places with a lot of grass, especially during spawning season. They create a lot of movement even without moving a great distance, which keeps them in a bass’ striking range longer.
Buzzbaits should be used in sparse grass and places where you feel your lure might get snagged but you still want a topwater presentation. These are most effective after spawning during the late summer.
Frogs are meant to mimic real frogs so use them effectively around heavy grass. They can also be used around cover as they are one of the toughest lures to snag.
 Topwater lures are meant to simultaneously activate the feeding and agitation response from bass but require you to mimic fleeing or helpless prey with erratic movements.Create a back-and-forth or zig zag pattern on the surface of the water when you employ a walker lure. Snap your wrist and rod tip downward at a sharp angle and then point the rod tip back to the lure quickly so it glides. Give a series of fast snaps to make the bait move from left to right.
Snap your rod tip downward to activate a poppers concave mouth and narrow tail.
Steadily retrieve your wakebait to utilize its sharp angled lip to cause it to shimmy back and forth.
Twitch and float minnows/twitch baits back to the surface to attract bass guarding their nests during spawning.
Use a series of short jerks on your rod to spray water with prop baits.
Steadily retrieve your buzzbait to employ its blade to curl the water, spitting and spraying during quick jerks.
Twitch frogs along the top of grass and water to get bass to explode onto your lure.
 While there are a variety of colours for each of these baits, it's best to go with black, white, green and yellow.