 At the top right corner of the page will be two buttons labelled Sign Up and Log In. Click on the Sign Up button.;
, The button will take you to a page with a sign up area and a log in area. In the section labelled Create an Account, fill out the information.


Choose your username. You can use your actual name, such as Jane Doe, or choose a username, such as JaneDoe33.
Enter your email. At the moment, you can't use an AOL email to sign up, but all other email providers, such as Outlook or Gmail, are available. It must be a real email account, as you use this address to validate your account.
Choose a password. The only guideline for passwords is that they must be eight characters long, for security purposes. The rest is up to you - there are no numbers required.
Enter your birthday. There is no age limit for Quotev.
 Once you've signed up, an email will be sent to you with a link to activate your Quotev account. Click on the link, and you'll be ready to get started on Quotev.
 On the bar at the top of the page, there is a tab labelled Create that is next to Browse. Click on this tab.
 You can make a story, a personality quiz, a knowledge (graded) quiz, or a survey/poll.
 Regardless of what you are making, each component requires a name, a description, tags, a category or categories, a cover image, a language, and which gender the work is made for, as well as other settings.
 If you're creating a story, all they you need to do needed is title your chapter (or leave the generic one there) and start writing. If you're creating a quiz or survey, however, you'll need to fill in three things - the possible results to your quiz, the questions, and the answers for those questions. There is no character limit for any of these fields.
 At the bottom of the page are the Save Draft and Publish buttons. While the Save Draft button will disappear after you have first published your work, the Publish button will always remain.
 There are three different ways you can view previously-written content on Quotev.


The first is the Browse tab tag, found next to the Quotev logo at the top of the screen. This tab takes you to a page, which allows you to choose from several of the most popular works in many different categories.
The second fab is the Random tab, which gives you a random quiz, survey, or story picked from databases. The third is the searching area, where you can search for a specific keyword, title, or author.
 Your feed contains every post written by the users that you have followed, if any. It can be accessed by simply clicking on the Quotev logo at the top left corner of the page at any time.
 Your notifications can be accessed by selecting the flag icon on the top right corner of your page. This creates a drop-down menu displaying your most recent notifications.
 You can access profiles in different ways, such as clicking on the author of a piece near the top right corner of your window or clicking on a person you've followed from the feed. A person's profile shows a unique background that the specific user has chosen, as well as published works, activity, a bio, and anything the user has chosen to display.
 You can role-play almost anything on Quotev! On your profile, there is a thing that you can click on that says "Groups." You can create a group to role-play on or just talk. If you go to other people's profiles and check on their "Groups" tab (if its shown), to join their group (if they have any).