 White water rivers have rapid classifications ranging from I to VI which indicate the level of difficulty. Class I is the easiest type of rapid to navigate and Class VI is the most difficult and dangerous type of rapid. Class VI rapids are not run on commercial rafting trips, and usually not navigable at all.


Find out the difficulty level of the river, and when is the best time to raft.
Check water temperatures so you can take the right rafting clothes.
Find a reputable rafting outfitter. Check online for reviews from travel review web sites, call the local chamber of commerce or business bureau, or contact the parks and recreation service in the area and ask about the company you are considering.
Buy a guidebook for the river you plan to raft. Many guidebooks include classification of each rapid, seasonal water levels, temperatures, maps and other helpful information. You can also search online or contact a local ranger service in the area.
Detail the needs of your rafting party to the rafting company. If you plan to raft with children, people with disabilities, or other special needs, discuss this in advance with the rafting company.
Ask the white water rafting company about the rapids. Be sure that you and the members of your party are physically, emotionally and mentally capable of running the river. Everyone in your party must be prepared to swim in swift rapids, do self-rescue, rescue other swimmers, and follow the instruction of the raft guide without question.
 The weight of the raft is important when navigating class III and higher rapids, so your rafting guide may combine your group with another group to be sure the raft is balanced. If you have a large group, you may be split up into separate rafts.
 You must paddle exactly when and how your guide tells you to. If one person does not paddle in time with the other rafters, the raft may go off course and into dangerous waters. White water rafting requires every paddler in the raft to use their strength as a sort of engine for the boat, while your guide steers you through rapids.
 A bathing suit is not the best choice in white water because if you fall out the raft, the suit gets pulled by the swift water, rescue attempts and boat re-admission. Wear board shorts and a t-shirt in warm conditions. Don't wear heavy cotton in cold weather, it does not dry easily and provides not warmth. Take dry clothes for after rafting.
 Closed toe shoes with good gripping soles are best. Don't wear flip-flops or anything that comes off easily. Take an extra pair of shoes to change into after rafting.


A raft in good repair
Experienced and certified rafting guides
Personal Flotation Devices (P.F.D); also called life jackets
Helmets
Paddles
Wet Suits for cold weather or cold water
First Aid Kit

,