 Although this isn't usually a problem for most teenagers, it is very important to go out with your friends and meet new people.


If you don't have many friends then make the effort to go out and meet some new ones; it's not as hard as it may seem! Join a club or sports team where you can meet people with similar interests to your own.
Just try to avoid social events that involve dangerous or unhealthy activities such as drinking or taking drugs, as this will just cancel out everything in this article!

, Teenagers often have a rather bumpy relationship with their parents and tend to rebel against parental authority.


However, it's important to remember that your parents are only concerned for your safety and happiness and if they don't allow you to do something it's probably because they don't think it's safe or in your best interests.
Therefore, the best way to deal with disagreements is to have a calm, reasoned discussion with your parents, not a screaming tantrum. Remind them that you are a mature, sensible almost-adult who is capable of making good decisions. You'll get a lot more leeway if you use this approach!

, While having a boyfriend or girlfriend is all part of the the fun of being a teenager, you shouldn't let your relationship take over your life.


Don't ditch your friends in favor of your latest boyfriend or girlfriend -- he or she may only last a couple of months, but friends are for life!
Don't be too heartbroken if things don't work out. You can be pretty certain that the guy or girl you dated for 6 weeks in ninth grade wasn't the love of your life! So get out there and meet someone new!
Be sexually responsible. If you make the decision to become sexually active as teenager, make sure to do so responsibly. Always use protection and regularly get yourself checked out for any STDs.
 It's important to maintain good relationships with your teachers by behaving well in class, handing in assignments on time and maintaining good grades.


Having a good relationship with your teachers can make your school experience much smoother and more pleasant and can really work in your favor when it comes to applying to colleges.
Most of your teachers are smart, interesting people (even if you don't think they're cool) so respect them and learn all you can from them, before it's too late.

