 AT&T's number blocking service is called "Smart Limits." This service costs $4.99 per month, so you can verify if you're blocking any numbers by checking your most recent billing statement. If you are blocking numbers, it should list a $4.99 fee for Smart Limits services.

If your bill does not list a fee for Smart Limits, you may be using a third-party app for number blocking. If this is your case, you'll need to unblock the number in the settings of the third-party app., To manage your blocked numbers, you're going to have to access the blocked number directory on your Smart Limits dashboard. This is only possible through your online account.


To create your "My AT&T" account, you should visit the AT&T homepage and follow the prompts for registering your account.
You'll need to have your account number, billing zip code, and potentially the phone number registered to your account before you can activate it., You can do this on your phone or computer by navigating in your browser to att.com. Be sure you have your account user name and password handy so you don't have to reset your account information or wait for your request for a temporary password to be answered.

Click Log In in the upper right hand corner of the AT&T homepage to be redirected to the account log in page. Input your account user ID and password, then click Log In to the right of the account log in text boxes., After clicking Log In you should have been redirected to your account settings page. Along the top of the page should be several tabs that indicate different settings you can adjust. Find the tab labeled "Wireless Services" and click it., Under the Wireless Services tab should be a list of options you can choose from. Among this list should be a heading titled "Smart Limits" or "Manage Smart Limits." Select this option to access your Smart Limits settings.

Opening the Smart Limits link should take you to the Smart Limits Dashboard. This is where you can adjust text limits, spending limits, data usage limits, and blocked numbers.If you have difficult finding "Smart Limits" or "Manage Smart Limits" as an option, at the top of your account page choose myAT&T → Wireless → View My Plan & Features. On the resulting page, select "Manage" for the phone that has blocked numbers. Then find and choose "Smart Limits" or "Manage Smart Limits.", Linked to your account in your Smart Limits dashboard, there should be a directory of blocked numbers. To the right of these numbers should be an X-shaped button., From among the directory of blocked numbers, find the number you want to unblock. Click or tap the number to select it once you've found it. Then select the delete button, which should be shaped like an X to the right of the number. This will remove the number from the blocked list., Now that you've removed the blocked number from the blocked list, you should be able to receive texts and calls from that number. Click Log out to exit your account and enjoy exchanging texts and calls with the unblocked number!