 If AngelList is one of your initial exposures to the investing world, as it is for many startups, this is particularly important.


Make sure you have a solid name. While this may seem trivial, a name is the first thing people will see, and it should rock! Your name should pull people in, trigger their interest in your company, and make them want to click on your profile. Remember, investors don’t just read every profile they see.
Pay attention to your marketing strategy, financials, and production timeline. Make sure you have thought through everything that could be wrong.;
, This should also be obvious, but it is important that your website is well designed and complete before you look for investors on AngelList. Investors will be visiting your website to learn more about you and your team, and it should be polished.
 Look for reputable people in your industry, pitch your company to them, and garner their support and investment before starting your AngelList profile.


While this is not a necessary step, it can give your start-up credibility that can only help. Showing that someone entrenched in the industry believes in your company and is invested in it will help to show many investors that your company is worth their time and money.
 Interested investors will want to learn more about your company, and after viewing your profile, may contact you about a meeting over the phone or Skype. You should be ready to give your pitch to these investors on short notice.
 And all of your team members. One of the most important things an investor looks for in any start up is a strong, reliable team. Make sure that you are all portrayed in a strong, positive light.
 Looking at successful profiles can give you tips on how to fill out your startup’s profile.
 A good way to do this is by Googling tips for AngelList investors. Here are a few things investors look for:


Easy to understand. A clear mission and profile will show investors that you are organized and detail-oriented. A confusing profile can deter people from wanting to learn more about it, and can reflect badly on your team.
Traction. Ask your current backers to endorse your profile on AngelList. Showing interest from established investors will help to prove your company’s worth.
Video Demos. A video demonstration of your product is a great way to show prototypes and demonstrate the appeal of your product. Your video should be clean, clear, and well-edited.
 Click on your picture in the top right, then click Create Company Profile.
 Be concise, but give enough information to give a complete overview of your company.
 Be up front about how much you want to raise in your current round of fundraising. It will be a waste of time and resources for both you and your potential investor if you are asking for something they aren’t willing to give. You should have already spent time determining your goals for your initial investment round while creating your business plan, but double check to make sure that you aren’t over- or under-reaching.
 You can choose up to 4 markets with which to describe your company. Investors following those markets will be able to come across your startup more easily, so it is wise to utilize all 4.


Don’t create a new market! If you create a new one, no investors will be following it, and it can prevent potential investors from finding your company.
 Many investors like to invest in local companies, and will search for companies in their area. If you make your location “Redwood City” for example, you may be preventing investors located in a slightly wider radius from finding you. A better strategy would be to list “Bay Area” or “Silicon Valley”, but take care not to go too wide - “California” will not give a clear idea of where you are located.
 Your team’s network will be notified when you add them to your company, which will increase the number of people who visit your profile.
 Before publishing your profile, go over it and make sure that everything is how you want it. Have other members of your team go over it and edit as well. Remember, your profile is what will make investors determine whether they want to learn more or move on.

