 Clean any spilled food or drink off the tray with a soft, damp cloth.


Periodically clean the tray with soapy water and a clean, soft cloth to sanitize it.
Do not attempt to wash the tray in a dishwasher.
Dry the tray with a clean towel after washing it.;
, The side handle buttons are located along the underside of the tray. There is one button on each side of the tray.


These buttons are wedge-shaped.
The buttons are located along the outside of the seat's side railings.
 Place one hand over each side handle button. Press the buttons up and into the the rest of the tray.
 If you only want to adjust the tray, you can do so now by sliding the tray forward or backward as needed.


Note that the tray can be locked into three different positions.You should hear a "click" noise whenever the tray snaps into one of these positions.
These positions should only be used when the high chair is in use. Do not leave the tray on the chair at all when you plan to fold it up.
 When it is time to fold up the high chair, you should remove the tray completely. To do that, simply slide the tray all the way forward and off the chair side railings.


Set the tray aside for now. You can store it with the rest of the high chair once you fold it up.
 Before folding up the high chair, it is a good idea to clean off any spilled food or drink with a soft, damp cloth.


For sanitation purposes, you should periodically use soapy water while wiping down the seat pad and back.
Do not place any part of the chair in a washing machine or dryer.
Wipe the washed seat dry with a clean towel.
 Turn the chair around or walk behind it so that the back of the chair faces you.


Facing the chair from this position makes it much easier to fold it. You might have difficulty completing the steps if you stand in front of the high chair.
 There is one latch release trigger on each side of the chair. More precisely, they can be found beneath the side railings toward and toward the back of the chair.


There should be a slight indentation along the bottom of both triggers where your fingers can rest.
 Grab a latch release trigger in each hand and pull up on both triggers simultaneously.


It can take a little effort to press in both triggers. For best results, rest your thumb on a stationary part of the chair just above trigger to give yourself leverage. Use your other fingers to press the trigger in.
As you press the triggers, the rest of the chair should start lifting upward. Continue lifting until you hear a “click,” signifying that that the latches securing the chair's upright position have been released.
 The high chair should naturally start collapsing in on itself once the latches have been released. As soon as this happens, you can release the latch release triggers.


After removing your hands from the triggers, slide them up until the rest on the frame of the high chair just beneath the cloth-covered back of the seat.
 Push the cloth-covered back and the cloth-covered seat down and forward. Continue pushing until the seat and back are directly next to the legs.


Bend over as the seat rotates downward into the legs.
Alternatively, hold the seat with one hand and pick up the legs with your other hand. No part of the chair should touch the ground at this point. Fold the two sides together using both hands.
 When moving the folded chair, grab the legs and the side railings of the seat at the same time. Hold both sections together before you pick up or otherwise move the folded high chair around.The high chair does not have any straps to secure it while in its folded state. If you hold it only by one side (either the seat or the legs), it will probably fall back open.
 Store the folded high chair horizontally by placing it underneath a table, chair, or similar structure.


Rest the tray on top of the folded chair to reduce the risk of losing it.
Alternatively, you can store the chair in a vertical position by sliding it into a narrow corner between two other structures. The space must be narrow enough to hold the seat and legs close together; otherwise, the chair can easily fall back open.
 Grab the high chair so that the legs face you. The back and seat part of the chair should face outward.


When you unfold the chair, you will be standing behind it.
It is usually much easier to unfold the chair when standing in this position.
 Place the legs of the high chair on the ground. Grab onto the top edge of the seat back once the legs are steadied.


You may need to lean or bend over the chair to do this.
Only use one hand to grab onto the seat back. Use your other hand to keep the rest of the chair steady.
 Pull up and back on the seat, separating both the back and seat part of the chair from the legs in the process. Continue pulling the seat away until you hear a click.


The noise signifies that the chair has snapped securely into its upright position.
 Position the back of the tray over the side railings. Push on the tray, sliding it over the railings and toward the back of the chair.


If the tray gives you any resistance as you try putting it back on, try pressing in the two side handle buttons. It should slip on more smoothly after that.
Continue sliding the tray in until you hear another click. That noise signifies that it has snapped into place.
After reattaching it, try wiggling the tray without pressing in the side handles. It should remain still.

