 There are two versions of the Silk app - one is called Silk, and the other is called Silk Legacy, the latter of which is meant for older devices. Both cost $2.99 on the App or Google Play store.
 Once you've purchased the app and it's finished downloading, find it and tap on the icon to open it. You can also open it via the App Store on an iOS device.
 Especially if you've only used the PC version of Silk before, the menu can be very hard to orient to. Take some time to get used to the menu.


The button with the rotating rectangles is the tool being used to create your drawing.
The curved arrow is the Undo button. You can undo as many times as you wish; tapping Undo will cause a Redo button to appear above the Undo button.
The black button centered between all of the options clears the canvas. You can also tap three fingers to the screen to clear the canvas.
The square with the upwards arrow is the button to share or save your creations.
The colored circle represents the color(s) that are currently selected.
The line in the upper right-hand corner is the "effect" that occurs when drawing the line. You can draw straight lines, create a colored hue in the background, or draw more curved lines - or draw lines while making hues! The intensity can be adjusted by a slider on the right-hand side of the screen.
The question mark is attribution information.
 Unlike the computer version of Silk, you have more control over what kinds of patterns you draw. Tap on the button with the rotating rectangles, and a menu will come up. Select the pattern that you want to draw in.


You can only draw in one pattern at a time, but it's possible to draw in one pattern, change to a different pattern, and then draw in your newly-selected pattern. This allows for more unique designs.
The asterisk at the bottom of the menu can be tapped on to enable the ability to draw on different parts of the screen, as opposed to just the center. Tap again to turn it off.
 Aside from the original seven-color color wheel (which has red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, and light gray), there's also black, white, and a "rainbow" option, which allows you to use all the colors in the palette at once. There are also color wheels not on the PC version of Silk, all with different varieties of color.


To use two colors at once, tap and drag a color into another one.
There are five total color palettes available. To cycle through the color palettes, tap on the button with two arrows under the color wheel.
 To draw on the mobile version of Silk, just press one or two fingers to the screen and move your fingertips around on the screen to create patterns or drawings.
 If you want to put your creation somewhere, whether it's online or just on your phone, tap on the Share icon (the square with the arrow coming out of it). A menu will come up, and from that menu, you have several options. You can text or email your creation to someone, add your Silk creation to your Notes app, share it to social media, copy the image, or just save the image to your camera roll, either in normal or HD quality.

