 If you yell at your sibling they will likely yell back at you and you'll start a fight.;
, Remember you parents are in charge, not you. So if you sibling will not clean they will take care of it.
 Little kids have a short attention spans. Put on some music or something like that.
 Most people see cleaning up as a chore, and that's why they don't do it. Don't make the same mistake parents do! We all know the feeling when we're having fun watching TV or playing video games and we get told to clean our rooms. That's why we HATE doing it. Find a time when your sibling is free, such as before dinner, or after school/kinder, and then tell them.
 Don't jump on them and scream at them to clean their room. Explain to them why they need to clean there room and the punishment if they don't clean it.
 Don't force them to do it. If they don't do it explain to them why they need to do it. Also get your parents if the talking does not work

, First, target where the mess mainly is. Is it under the bed? Is it on the floor? Is it on the shelves? The closet? Or is it everywhere? Targeting where the mess is will help you devise a plan to stop it. *So, now you know mainly where the mess is... how do you stop it? So... the mess is on the shelf. Find out why it's on the shelf. Look closely at your sibling, and find out what they're doing wrong. After a while, I noticed that the shelf was messy because after all the time I spent organizing it, my sister was taking pencils, paper, toys and things off and not putting them back in the right place. As a result, half the mess ends up on the floor, the other half scattered in random places on the shelf. Now you have the information, you have to put it into action. Run things through with your sibling. This is to help THEM, not you. You can organize things as much as you like, but it won't teach your sibling to clean up unless you show them your method.
 You can make a sticker chart... every time your sibling cleans up, you can add a sticker to their chart... set goals... 20 stickers and they get a new toy, a cookie, or something else you know they want. (Something not to big)

, Make it a game like step 8 and you can also make a bet with them while they do this.
 Try cleaning up the room every other day so the mess is not to bad.
 Even if they didn't really do a good job, you should do it so they know how good it is after cleaning.
 Reward her occasionally, but never say: "If you clean your room, I'll give you a cookie". If you run out of cookies, she will throw a tantrum. Plus, next time she's told to clean her room, she'll expect a cookie. That turns out bad because she gets the idea that she doesn't have to clean her room, she's just doing it for the cookie.
 Give them time to adjust to the fact that they might not have as much free time to watch TV or sing and dance anymore because they were cleaning.

