 Government action can often take a long time and their resolutions may not meet your expectations. In addition to taking government action, or in lieu of it, contact large media outlets in your area. When you talk with the media, you will bring awareness to the pollution. The more people that become aware of the pollution on public land, the quicker the government will get involved. Call newspapers, television stations, and radio stations and tell them about the pollution.


Before you contact the media (i.e., radio, print, or television), make a plan and media statement. You do not want to be quoted inaccurately or sound like you do not know what you are talking about. When you create a media plan, think about who you want to contact, what you want to say, and who you want to connect with.
You may even want to hire someone to help you with your media blitz. These individuals may help you schedule appearances, create talking points, and stay on track. In addition, if you hire a pollution expert, they may be able to speak on your behalf about the particular pollution taking place.
 If the pollution is affecting the health and well-being of people, you may want to contact university medical centers about the problem. Universities may be privately owned and may be willing to advocate on your behalf. In addition, universities often have professors that always want to be involved and students who want to help as well. If there are health concerns, medical specialists may be willing to test the pollution and gauge its affect on individuals. These results may push the government to respond to your concerns.


Even if the health and well-being of people are not at risk, universities are a great resource for concerned citizens. Professors and students are usually very involved in their communities and their help can push for change. In addition, a lot of universities provide specific programs that help students learn about pollution. For example, Rutgers University has an Air Pollution Training Program that helps teach people about testing processes. They offer classes and training programs for students, governments, and private citizens. Contact these programs and alert them about pollution. They may be able to use it as a learning tool and it might lead to increased awareness.
 The more people you can get on your side the better. Governments will be more likely to respond to complaints or concerns if a lot of people are voicing the same issues. Therefore, contact individuals abutting the public land where the pollution is occurring. Tell them about the pollution and what needs to be done to fix it. Once you contact those that are the most affected by the pollution, start contacting others you think may be concerned. This might include lawyers and business owners.


Apart from contacting interested parties, make sure you urge them to make their voices heard. Ask if they will file complaints, talk to the media, and make phone calls to their representatives. It is not enough to make people aware; you also need to demand action.

