 To help avoid the deterioration of your mental faculties as you age, you should do mentally stimulating activities. Mentally challenging games help keep your mind sharp.Take a different route home from work now and then; breaking free of routine stimulates the mind.
Do crossword puzzles or sudoku by yourself.
Play chess with a partner or against the computer.
 Download a brain training app like Lumosity, Elevate, Peak, Cognito, or Fit Brains Trainer. These apps feature collections of quick games that test mental skills like memory, adaptability, focus, reasoning, and calculation (or problem-solving) speeds. Practicing the games on a daily basis is said to improve brain function., In older adults, cardiovascular fitness has been linked to improved white matter in the brain. White matter is the tissue that contains nerve fibers and neurons, which affect the speed of electrical transmissions in the brain.Physical fitness affects mood, cognitive functions, and overall brain health.
Aerobic activities that promote cardiovascular fitness include walking, stair climbing, riding a stationary bike, and swimming.
Adults should get at least 30 minutes per day of aerobic exercise.
 Regular meditation has been linked to healthier brains in older people. Mindfulness meditation helps alleviate activity in the default mode network DMN), the part of your brain that causes stressful, unproductive thoughts. Reducing these negative thoughts through meditation is believed to slow the volume loss in brain tissue that happens as we age.Sit comfortably on a chair or on the floor. Imagine an invisible string pulling your head up toward the sky, which will help you sit up straight and tall.
With your eyes closed, relax every part of your body while thinking about each part. Begin by relaxing your toes, then your legs, then your shoulders, your neck and jaw.
Breathe deeply in and out, in any way that feels natural to you. Focus on how your breathe moves through your body.
Come up with a mantra that is meaningful to you – a mantra can be any word, sound, or phrase. Repeat your mantra either aloud or silently to yourself.
Focus on your breath and your mantra, and try not to think about anything else. Relax and live in the present moment, and try to ignore any intrusive or disruptive sounds or thoughts.
Meditate for any length of time that feels comfortable to you. Beginners often start with 5 – 10 minute sessions, and increase the length of time as they become more comfortable with the practice.

