 Once you have the pain and inflammation under control, you will need to go see a physical therapist. Physical therapy is a variety of techniques used to help recover the movement of your neck and areas affected by the whiplash. It can often be used to help restore a person’s range of movement after a whiplash injury. The physical therapists will help you know what stretches and exercises you can do to increase the strength and range of motion of your neck, back, and arms. Stretching and exercises should not cause pain. If they do, stop them and talk to your doctor or physical therapist.Your physiotherapist will be able to show you neck exercises you can do at home.
Applying moist heat before your therapy may help aid in the therapy.
Common practices in physical therapy include rotating your neck left to right, tilting your head side to side, moving it up and down, and rolling your shoulders., Occasionally the doctor may immobilize your neck with a soft cervical collar. This is no longer standard practice with all cases of whiplash because evidence has shown early movement is helpful. If surgery is indicated, immobilization is required., You may need to see a chiropractor for adjustments and spinal manipulations. Most chiropractors are using the modern early movement protocol. This guides the practitioner to help rehab patients affected by whiplash. They have noticed early movement is better and recovery is shorter. This can help restore normal movement to your neck and back., Massage therapy is great for soft tissue rehabilitation. A massage may be helpful later in the recovery stages of whiplash, but in the beginning, the massage is not indicated. Massage increases the blood flow to the injured muscles and ligaments and speeds the healing process. In the recovery of whiplash, the massage can be helpful in relieving spasms., TENS is used to give small electrical impulses to your nerves in the affected areas. It distracts the pain sensors in the brain. Though it is expensive, there is no disadvantages to using TENS. However, there is not enough evidence that it helps mild cases to recommend it for every whiplash patient., Acupuncture can be used as a helpful tool for those with whiplash. It breaks up muscle tension similar to a massage. Putting a small needle into the body helps relieve pain by relieving muscle tension and promoting blood flow. This helps after your injury to recover the tissues faster.