 You can only ship firearms internationally if you hold a valid FFL. The process of lawfully exporting firearms is a very complex one. Closely read the ATF’s codes and guidelines to learn your rights and responsibilities.
 This area of the State Department oversees the first step to becoming a licensed firearms exporter. Complete the DS-2032 Statement of Registration Form. It takes an average of 45 to 60 days for forms to be reviewed. After submission, you’ll receive a confirmation email and instructions on how to check the status of your request., After the DDTC approves your registration, you can apply for the export license. Complete Form DSP-85 and follow all instructions closely.Submit it electronically through the DTrade portal. You’ll receive a confirmation email after you submit your application. Read the message for instructions on how to check the status of your application., Consider what items you plan to ship. If they extend into the category of sporting weapons or assault weapons, you’ll need additional licenses.


Sporting rifles, shotguns, and ammunition are regulated by the Commerce Department. Visit https://www.bis.doc.gov/. On the drop-down list on the left, choose “Speak to an Export Counselor.” Click Enter, and choose one of the three phone numbers at the top of the page.
Machine guns, silencers, short-barreled shotguns/rifles, and other firearms classified as Class 3 weapons under the National Firearms Act (NFA) require additional documentation. Complete ATF Form 9, the Application and Permit for Permanent Exportation of Firearms., Before you ship your package, make sure you’re complying with the laws of the country or locality you’re shipping to. Penalties for violating these laws vary greatly, so take the time to conduct thorough research. Some countries restrict the import of specific types of firearms or parts of firearms. Other countries forbid private citizens from owning firearms outright. For example:


Canada forbids the import of firearms listed as prohibited under national law, even if the individual has a license to own that class of weapon.The United Kingdom prohibits the import of a wider variety of firearms, including “small arms.”, You can follow most of the instructions for domestic shipping when shipping internationally. However, different carriers place different restrictions on what can be sent and where. For example, FedEx prohibits the shipping of firearms and ammunition to Canada.Ask carriers about their policies on:


Restricted items
What to include in the package, such as proof of export license(s) or FFL documentation
Packing materials required for longer distances
Weight limits
Labeling of the package
Delivery confirmation

