 Sirens outside, a loud bang in the kitchen, a dog barking, these are all sounds your child should be startled by and react to by turn their head towards the sound or gesturing to the source of the sound. By three months old, your child should also react to musical toys, rattles, or instruments and move their body to the sound of music.


Older children with hearing issues may constantly turn up the volume of the television, or want closed captions.
 By eight months old, typical children attempt to make sounds or imitate the words or sounds made by others around them. When you tell your child “no” or “yes”, or change the tone of your voice, they should visibly react to you.
 By around 12 to 14 months old, typical children react to their name being called and are able to follow common vocal instructions like “come here” or “go inside” or “bye bye”. By around three years old, they should be able to follow action words like run, walk, stop, and understand concepts like big, small, plural, opposite, etc.


They should also be comfortable expressing their desires by speaking and recognize the names of family members, familiar people, pets, and objects.
If your child does not enjoy reading or speaking, it may be because they are having difficulty comprehending words. They may not show curiosity about people or things or ask you questions about their environment if they are not aware of their surroundings., If your child has constant issues with earaches or noises in their ears, this may be an indication of auditory developmental issues., Several causes of auditory developmental delays include:


Genetic hearing loss or defect from birth.
Low birth weight.
Birth defects in the ear canal or middle ear.
Recurrent ear infections, resulting in fluid collection in the ear.
Injuries to the eardrum.
 Hearing is directly related to a baby’s ability to learn and understand, and a hearing defect or delay can result in a delay of other developmental milestones. So it is essential to screen your child for hearing issues and address them as soon as possible. An early diagnosis and early treatment will lead to a faster recovery and aid in developing better or normal hearing skills.


Your child’s doctor will use an otoscope to look inside your child’s ear canal. Older children will be tested by an audiometry.
Common tests are run on newborns to check for auditory issues, including auditory brain stem response and Otoacoustic emissions testing to detect hearing defects or loss.
Ear infections may be treated with medication or ear tubes. Surgery may be needed to correct any structural problems in your child’s ears.
Treatments to improve hearing skills include cochlear implants, speech therapy, and learning sign language.