 If you really want a congressman to know you, try meeting with him face-to-face. Scheduling a meeting is simple. All you have to do is call their local office and request a meeting to discuss an issue of importance to you. Someone should be able to get you into the schedule.You may end up meeting with staff members. However, remember that a positive relationship with congressional staff can eventually get your name to the congressman.
Know what you want to meet about. For example, if you're a teacher, tell the congressman you want to meet to ask questions about an upcoming vote regarding school funding.
 If you are a member of any political organizations, invite your congressman to speak. You can also invite your congressman to speak at things like charities or events for a local library, animal shelter, or other organization. If you volunteer for these types of organizations, reach out to your congressman. You should be able to call their office and see if they're able to attend events. This is a great way to get your congressman to know you, as you'll be showcasing that you're politically involved and able to take initiative.Your congressman will be more likely to make time for your event if you can show him the benefit for him. You can try hosting a fundraiser or invite him to speak about an issue that will be important in an upcoming election.
 Congressmen host town hall meetings where they meet with voters one-on-one. If you are a regular at town hall meetings and engage in conversation and questions, your congressman may eventually come to know you.Be prepared for town hall meetings. Your congressman is more likely to remember someone who had an articulate question or comment planned out ahead of time. Read up on current events and think of a question you could ask at the meeting.
 It can take years to establish yourself politically enough that your congressman knows you. Have patience and take little victories as they come. If you receive a letter from your congressmen, for example, keep in mind he probably did not write the response himself. However, if you continue to engage with your congressman's staff respectfully, you may eventually break through and talk to him directly.