 You will need funding to purchase or hire the equipment to get your business running. Consider the following sources of funds:


Do you have savings?
Do you need to get a loan?
Does the government or another source offer grants or a helping hand to start your business?

, With the money you have at the outset, you'll need to stretch it a long way until you start making a profit. Your budget needs to be very realistic and a little flexible without sending you into deep debt. If you're not good with numbers, hire an accountant and go over the numbers with him or her. Alternatively, find a savvy business partner who can help you out with this.
 This will likely be your biggest purchase. Consider whether you'll buy it new, used or maybe even hire (lease) it.


You will need a vehicle with a serving portal. This would typically be on a side. If you need to have this installed or modified, it will increase the cost of the truck or van.
Look for pre-equipped food trucks or vans. These are already kitted out and can save you a lot of money. Look on auction sites or vehicle trading sites.
 The cooking equipment can be rather expensive. You'll need decent cookware, ovens and display units.


Items can be purchased used, provided they're in good working condition. Ask for proof of condition before handing over the money.
Look at auction sites and retail websites. Visit showrooms, too. Businesses that are closing down can be a good source of commercial equipment at greatly reduced prices.
 Things to consider include:


The ovens will need to be small enough to fit and capable of being secured so that they do not shift while the truck is moving.
Display units must be easily viewed by someone standing outside the truck.
Do you need foot stands so that customers can reach into your sales area?
Have insect guards to keep food free of pests.
Will you need take-out boxes or containers? These can be costly and will take up storage space, so carefully consider their size and style.
 Will you need a generator, or will you be using on-site electricity wherever you go? Will you instead sell cupcakes from the truck after making them somewhere else? You will need to think through these issues in some detail.

