 In malls, there are all kinds of interesting people to watch. Make it a game with your friends.


For example, play people-watching “Bingo.” Come up with categories before you begin. For example, categories might be: a person with bright pink hair, a child on a leash, or a person with five different shopping bags. Whoever spots a certain number of the categories first, wins.
Add a silly prize to the game. Maybe the winner gets candy from the vending machine or something at the food court.
 Many malls having gaming centers or arcades, which can be a fun way to spend an afternoon. Go play games like ski ball with your friends.


Take a pre-determined amount of money, whether it’s a dollar or ten dollars to spend in the arcade, so you don’t end up spending more than you meant to.
 Choose a store, or a group of stores to play in. Get one of your friends to count inside their head while pretending to shop.


You and the rest of your friends can go hide in your predetermined area. While you hide, pretend to be shopping. This can be quite funny, as you try to act casual while hiding.
 Pick a stranger to dance behind.


Stand several feet behind this person and begin to dance. You want to be clearly behind them but not invading their personal space. Don’t dance in a way that could be seen as vulgar. Stay on the silly side.
If they turn around to look, stop immediately.
After a few minutes, casually walk away.
Don’t forget to have your friend video tape your dancing for laughs later.
 This is a great game to play in stores like Pottery Barn. Try out beds and couches.


Or, pretend like you are shopping for a house, and pick out your favorite furniture.
 If your mall has lots of posh stores, go in with your friends. Create a challenge to see who can find the most expensive and overpriced item.


Once you’ve picked your items, have another friend determine whose item is the most absurd.
 Even if you’re older, you can have fun feeling like a kid again and laugh about it with friends.


Usually these rides are fairly inexpensive, around a dollar or less.
 You will find little kids in toy stores and children’s clothing stores.


Smile at them as you walk by.

