 Simply put, composting is the process of taking organic (living or once-living material) material and breaking it down into a nutrient rich soil additive. This great soil additive has valuable nutrients that help plants to grow.When composting you take a natural process and speed it up by using heat, aeration (adding oxygen), and moisture.Bacteria, fungi, molds, earthworms, insects, and other soil organisms break the compost materials down into a useful material.Compost consists of both dry and moist materials. The moist materials are those that have a high nitrogen content, like manure, food waste, or grass clippings, and dry materials are materials that have a high carbon content, like dried leaves, straw, or sawdust.These items need to be mixed in a specific ratio in order to make good compost.;
, You will need a container to keep your compost in. This can be a commercial compost bin or simply bricks or concrete blocks to contain the pile. You will also need a shovel or garden spade, a long stemmed thermometer (which can be found at hardware stores), a carbon source (such as sawdust), and access to a hose or watering can.
 It would be best to use a far corner of your yard to keep it out of the way of animals or children. You will need a yard site that is at least 3 feet by 3 feet.


If you are building your own compost container, use the bricks or concrete blocks to outline the area you’ve chosen.
Make sure it isn’t under building eaves where a lot of water could run into it.
 Place a 3 inch layer of sawdust on the bottom of the area. Next put in the dog poop. Then place a 1 inch layer of sawdust over the dog poop, along with a shovelful of dirt.


Mix this together and cover with another layer of sawdust.
You will have to use your judgement but the correct ratio is 2 parts dog poop to 1 part sawdust., Do not soak it totally but the pile needs to be moist. The organisms that break down the dog poop need moisture to function.Then put the thermometer deep into the pile, making sure not to go into the ground. Record the temperature on your calendar.
 You will need to take your shovel or spade and “turn” the pile (mix it up) once a week. This will assure that it is properly aerated and that all the material is decomposing evenly.


Also take weekly temperature readings (before turning) and record. The target number is 140 ° F. This will generally be reached in 4-8 weeks, when the waste and sawdust has turned into a material that looks much like soil., Do not use this compost on any plants or shrubs you use for food. It cannot be certain that dog poop compost is safe for use on fruit or vegetable plants.