 Present the book to the child when they are in a good mood and seem receptive to hearing about the concern. Set aside enough time afterwards so that you are able to discuss the story with the child.Try saying, “I got this book at the library today. I thought it was neat because it was about making new friends! Do you want to read it with me?” If the child says no, put the book down in a place where they can see it and try again later. They might look at the pictures or try to read it on their own.
Do not present the story to your child at a time of stress, or immediately in the wake of the behavior you are trying to correct. The child will be less receptive.
For an older child who reads on their own, you could give them the book and say something like, “I was at the bookstore the other day and saw this book. It reminded me of what we were talking about the other day. Maybe you’d like to read it.” Follow up with the child in a few days.
Remain easygoing. Keep the mood light as you read the book. You do not want to put pressure on the child to accept the book as a prescription for their problem; rather, you want to create a sense of excitement. For example, “Wow, this character is going through the same thing you are! I wonder what he does to figure it out!”

, Kids often feel better talking about problems secondhand. It is easier to say, “Look at the problem she is having! She must be sad,” then to say, “Dealing with this problem makes me sad.” Talking about the issue through the book will help a child feel less defensive and vulnerable about their emotions.Ask questions about the character, like: Why do you think the character behaved that way? What do you think the character should do instead? How did you think the character felt when that happened?If you are reading the book to the child, you could pause throughout the book to ask questions about what is happening. This will help you gauge if the child is making connections to the text.
 Hopefully, the child will be able to make the connection between their problem and the character’s, but you can also articulate this for them. State that the child is not the only one who is dealing with the same issue, and that there are many people who have the same concerns as the child.You could say, “Do you see in this book that this boy was also afraid of going to the hospital? That’s very normal, almost everybody gets nervous about going to the hospital.”

, Help the child bring the book to life by thinking more about the book or coming up with other ways to engage with it.Don’t push it if the child doesn’t seem interested, but if the book resonated with the child, you might consider:


Suggesting that the child draw a picture about what the character does next, or what the character could have done instead in the story.
Having the child act out being the character in the book, both at the beginning of the story (the “problem” part) and the end (the resolution). This can help the child connect the book to their own behavior.
Doing an activity together that is inspired by the book. For example, maybe you read a book about the death of a grandparent, and in the book the character memorializes their grandparent by making a scrapbook filled with memories. Suggest to the child that the two of you do the same, or create another memorial the child would prefer.

