 Most dentists will do an oral examination during your regular dental visit.


This will ensure that any signs of oral cancer are picked up at their earliest stages.
Getting regular dental examinations is a great way to nip any kind of oral disease in the bud.
If you are under high risk for cancer (due to tobacco use, alcohol abuse, sun exposure or family history), then your dentist will give you periodic oral cancer screening tests during your regular oral examinations.
 During an oral examination, your dentist will check inside your mouth for color changes, red or white patches, and sores/ulcers.


With gloved hands, your dentist will press all your mouth tissues, including your cheeks, lips, tongue, floor and roof of the mouth, and sides of your tongue for any lumps, swelling, or changes of texture.
Your dentist will do a complete examination of all your tissues and check for any cancer indications and changes in your mouth, face, and neck region.
If your dentist identifies some cancer risk signs and symptoms, then he/she will do some more additional tests to screen for oral cancer.
 If your dentist finds any abnormal changes during the oral examination, then a biopsy will be carried out to detect cancer cells.


During a biopsy, a small piece of tissue from the affected area will be removed and checked for cancerous cells.
Your dentist will give you a local anesthetic to numb the area where the biopsy is going to be done.
Tissue taken from the area will be sent to a laboratory to test for the presence of cancer cells.
 If your dentist identifies lumps in your neck, then he will do a fine needle aspiration to get a sample of whatever is creating the bulge.


Your dentist will put a needle in the lump and draw out the cells and fluids contained within the lump.
The fluid will be sent to a laboratory to check for the presence of cancerous cells.
 Tissue staining helps to identify the area where cancer cells are forming.


Your dentist will ask you to rinse your mouth with a blue colored dye (Toluidine Blue) or he/she will apply the dye over the affected tissue.
If the tissue is stained a blue color when the dye is applied, then it indicates the presence of cancer cells.
 Light based detection helps to diagnose cancer by identifying the exact position of cancerous tissue.


First you will wash your mouth with a 1% acetic acid solution.
This removes debris and dehydrate the cells, which makes it easy to visualize the cells or tissues of your mouth.
A blue-white light is used to examine the inside your mouth.
This light makes the healthy tissue appear blue or dark in color.
The affected tissue looks white in color.
 If you have already had a biopsy done, sometimes your doctor will deem it best for you to avoid repeat biopsies, because they are somewhat invasive.


A small amount of blue dye will be painted over abnormal tissue area.
Then the area is closely checked for cancer cells with a microscope.

