 Most states have claim forms you can fill out to open a claim in small claims court.Small claims courts are simple and inexpensive, and are designed for you to have a judge hear a small claim without needing an attorney or extensive knowledge of legal procedures.You must have the full business name and appropriate address for the utility company to fill out this form.Each state has maximum limits for the amount of money your claim is worth, usually a few thousand dollars. In most cases your utility dispute probably would fall under that limit., Some small claims courts require you to include documents such as past utility bills as exhibits to your claim. 

, Include all required information on your claim form and sign it in the presence of a notary, if required.
 To have your claim heard by a judge you must file it with the clerk of the small claims court in your county.


Typically you will have to pay a small fee to file your claim. For example, in New York the court fee is $15-20.The clerk will assign a date for your trial., After you've filed your claim, you must have the utility company served so it has notice of the lawsuit.


In some states, such as New York, the clerk will serve the utility company for you.If you have to do it yourself you can have the sheriff's department do it for a small fee, or send the documents using certified mail., Organize any documents you have and request information from the utility company to build your case.


Documentation you'll want to bring with you to your trial might include copies of your bills, copies of bank statements or cancelled checks, and payment confirmation pages if you paid your bill online.
You also should gather together any notes you made from phone calls with representatives and letters you sent to follow up on those calls.
Make several copies of each document you're taking to trial with you so you can provide the judge and the utility company representative with their own copies.You also may arrange for witnesses to testify at trial on your behalf., Show up at the date and time for your trial to present your claim to the judge.


Try to arrive at least 15 minutes early so you can get through security and find the right courtroom.Since it is your claim, you will have the opportunity to speak first. Present your claim clearly and concisely, and don't interrupt anyone else when they're speaking.
Dress in clean, conservative clothing and be professional and considerate to the judge and all other court staff.
Make sure your documents are well organized so you can find what you need quickly without shuffling a lot of papers. Anticipate the questions you'll be asked and have answers prepared.