 Although batt insulation is fairly lightweight, it can put an undue amount of stress on flimsy drop ceiling tiles and break them.


If you have fiberglass tiles, you'll need to replace them before proceeding. Fiberglass ceiling tiles cannot support the weight of insulation.
If you have the more common wood-and-gypsum ceiling tiles, they will need to be at least 5/8 inch (15 mm) thick to be used safely with batt insulation.;
, Because you'll be adding additional weight to the ceiling grid, you will need to install additional hanger wires to support it.


Aim to install an additional hanger wire between each existing pair of wires. This will double the total number of wires supporting each beam.
Remember that the hanger wires should only be secured into the wood joists. If you ran your grid beams parallel to the ceiling joists this will not pose a challenge.
 Either paper-backed or foil-backed insulation will suffice; both types of this insulation are readily available at home improvement stores.


Measure the distance of your grid from the joists to determine the depth of batting you should buy; most drop ceilings will accommodate up to 8" (20 cm) batts.
To determine the total amount of batt insulation you need to buy, simply calculate the area of the suspended ceiling (width multiplied by depth in a rectangular room).
 Beginning on 1 end of the room, push all of the tiles in the first row up into the ceiling and slide them over. Do not take them completely down from the ceiling grid, as this makes them difficult to reinstall once the insulation is in place.
 Begin working the strip of batt insulation above the ceiling grid and into the row you are working on, keeping the backing faced down. Sit the insulation flush against the hanger wires so that there won't be any air space between neighboring strips of batting.


You may find it helpful to temporarily remove the cross tees of the ceiling grid while you get the insulation into place.
 After each section of batting is in place, reach underneath it and grab the ceiling tiles you moved aside. Gently pull them back into place so that the insulation rests on top. Repeat this process for each remaining row of tiles.

