 This creativity will help embed your understanding much better than rote reading or writing; using artistic and interesting revision tools will allow your mind explode with different revision ideas and the information will stay foremost in your memory.
 Posters are the perfect thing to use for revision. They can be as bright and colorful as you like, they can allow you to use lists, circles, mind maps, arrows, pictures, decoupage, etc. Since they're a work of art and interesting, they almost persuade you to revise from them!

, Some subjects may be more suitable to making posters for than others. Here's a list of suggested additions to help:


Science (explaining processes, making diagrams)
Art (explaining artists)
History (bubbles to explain different people in the time period)
French (translation bubbles)
English (novels with plots and imagery)


And any other subject you can think of. The process of deciding what to turn into a poster is a learning exercise in its own right.
 Make your poster bright and colourful with felt-tips so you will be tempted to revise from it later. Try to colour code it with colours associated with your subject. Make any writing big and bold, enough to see from a long distance. Hang up your revision posters in your bedroom, around the house... Anywhere you go to often so you can see your revision posters when performing everyday tasks.
 Use mind mapping software, note-taking apps, quiz apps, online educational games, Wordless, lists, Pinterest, etc. to keep your revisions ideas, information and notes in. Wherever you go, you can access these digital notes from your smartphone, tablet or other digital device, making it easy to revise when traveling, at a sports game, waiting for a friend, in the park, or wherever else you'd rather be. Going outside or going somewhere different can help your brain absorb new concepts and information, or can help rev up a tired brain sick of being stuck in the one place for ages. Make use of the digital tools to give you this freedom.
 Find a MOOC that is right on topic and check out what it's offering. Use the tools they offer, including their videos, forums and reading material, to give you new angles and interest on the topics you're revising.

