 A few days here and there are a good way to relish the freedom of summer but don't let it become a habit that eats into your entire break. Map out a range of activities that motivate you to get up and make the most of each day, whether it's reading, painting, art and craft, catching up on missed TV shows, visiting friends or whatever.


Do something intellectually challenging, like learning a new language or teaching yourself a field you know you're never going to study at school.
Learn a new sport. Either learn it by reading about it and practicing or find a club, group of players or a coach to help you discover a new sporting talent.;
, Visit friends and do fun things together, like roaming, chatting, visiting places such as the beach, museum. etc.


Have sleepovers and backyard camping together.
Write a book, blog or website together.
Plan and even run a small business together, to earn some money. A lemonade stand, car boot sale or craft items online are all achievable and fun options for raising a bit of cash together.
 A nap here and there will keep your mind fresh and keeps you out of the sun at the hottest time of day. You might even be able to find enough energy to party all night!

, Focus on chillaxing when you're not having fun doing things.
 For example, a favorite coffee shop, the local public swimming pool, a mall or have a picnic in the park.
 Have fun while you're keeping your cool. Take your friends with you. Be really kind and take your younger siblings too.
 Go to places where it's safe to meet people of your own age, such as during sports, at a coffee shop or at special activities, such as computer games conventions. Say hi to new people and see if you can make new friends. Take your existing friends with you and all of you can make new friends together!


There are many places where you can meet new people, such as book signings, concerts, or even public events (for example, funfairs, festivals, etc.).
 Travel is an ideal way to pass some of the summer holidays. You can travel locally, for just a day trip, or farther afield, perhaps for a few days, a week or even a few weeks. Depending on your family's budget, consider camping, staying in motels or visiting a resort.


Pack plenty of snacks and water for travel. You'll need to drink more during the hotter weather.
 If you're old enough to go away with friends and a responsible older sibling to take care of you all, this can be a fun way to enjoy time with your friends away from home. Have at least one responsible person 16 or up per every two to three of you going. It's recommended that you visit somewhere close so that you can come home quickly if needed. Or, go and visit a family farm, lakeside retreat or cottage somewhere; it can belong to any one of your friend's families.
 Summer clothing should be loose, comfortable, cool and carefree. Don't constrict yourself with tight and uncomfortable gear; this is the time for being as comfortable as possible. Cotton and wick-away garments are good for keeping your cool.


Wear a hat and sunscreen when you're out in the searing sun.
 Or a fan, or a swimming pool dip.

