 To reduce irritation, ease pain, and help shrink the veins, soak the hemorrhoids for 15 to 20 minutes three times a day in warm, not hot, water.If you don't want to run a bath, try a sitz bath, which is a plastic tub that goes over your toilet seat. This lets you soak your buttocks and hips while in a seated position. It can reduce irritation, spasms of the rectal muscle, and itching.You can also place ¼ cup of sea salt in the sitz bath and sit 30 minutes at a time. Salt is an excellent antibacterial and is used to help with wound healing and drawing out infection.You may also add witch hazel, known for being a soothing and cooling remedy for hemorrhoids. This should be done a minimum of once a day and the Sitz bath should last for anywhere between 15 and 20 minutes.;
, Place the ice pack in freezer until it's completely frozen. Take care not to apply the ice directly to the hemorrhoids. Instead, wrap the compress in a clean towel or cloth before pressing it gently on the hemorrhoids. Do not leave the pack on for long periods of time or it may damage the surrounding skin. It is best to apply for few minutes, remove it until your skin is back to room temperature and then apply it again.


This will help reduce the pain and swelling by reducing inflammation.It will also constrict the vessels which will stop the bleeding.
 You can also apply a cream to sooth the pain, irritation, and itching (which may cause bleeding). However, these will not stop the bleeding. Soothing creams can include hydrocortisone, aloe, witch hazel (herbal plant extract), and vitamin E.


If you use hydrocortisone, apply it morning and night, but don't use it for more than one week.Too much absorption may lead to an imbalance in your hypothalamus and pituitary hormones or cause the skin in the area to become thin.
 Rough toilet paper can scratch and/or irritate the skin even more. To soothe the pain and reduce irritation, use moist or medicated towelettes. You can also use witch hazel, hydrocortisone, aloe, or vitamin E medicated pads. Do not wipe aggressively, which can irritate or cause further bleeding. Pat or blot the area instead.


Scratching will only increase the bleeding and irritation, causing extra stress on your already tender hemorrhoids. This could lead to further infection.
 Many of these supplements may be hard to find in drug stores, so check for them online and in herbal stores. Always talk with your doctor before taking supplements, especially if you're taking other medications. If you're pregnant or nursing, talk with your doctor before supplementing, since most of these have not been tested for use by pregnant or nursing women. These supplements or traditional medicines include:


Fargelin extra: Take these traditional Chinese medicine tablets three or four times a day to strengthen veins which can reduce bleeding.Oral Flavonoids: These have been shown to reduce bleeding, pain, itching, and recurrence. They increase vascular tone which reduces the leaking of tiny blood vessels (capillaries).Calcium dobesilate or doxium tablets: Take these for two weeks and follow the packaged instructions. These drugs have been shown to decrease leaking of tiny blood vessels (capillaries), prevent clots, and improve blood viscosity. All of these things can reduce the swelling of tissues that cause hemorrhoids., This can help prevent or put less strain on the hemorrhoids. Eat a high-fiber diet to soften your stools and reduce constipation. Try to eat fruits, vegetables, and whole grains or take supplements (aim for 25 grams a day for women or 38 grams for men of total fiber). Drink plenty of fluids and establish regular bowel habits and especially avoid straining when having a bowel movement You should also avoid sitting for long periods of time which can increase pressure on your hemorrhoid veins, causing them to bleed. Exercise and walk to reduce the pressure.Use a donut cushion to help ease your body weight off the affected area. To use it, sit on the center of the cushion with your anal area right over the gap. It may actually put more pressure on the anal area, so stop using it if your symptoms get worse or bleeding continues or starts again.