 People are very insecure. They think if they aren't like other people, then the other people will not accept them. Being brutally honest here, sometimes that is the case. But if people don't like you for who you are, should you even WANT to be friends with them?;
, You like to play the clarinet secretly when no one can hear? Do you like to dance like a fool in your room with the door locked? Take a big bite of courage and get ready to show the world! Join the school band or sign up for dance classes. Or hey, one day when you're bored, go frolic merrily in the streets. Just prepare for some weird looks.
 "Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined." --Henry Thoreau...My addition: And don't let a single soul stop you.
 Be free; be yourself. Dance in the rain, sit like a statue in front of Barnes and Noble, paint yourself gold and attempt to fly. As the tourist in drag in the lovely musical HAIR once said, "do whatever you want, just so long as you don't hurt anyone."

, I admit, I'm guilty of the "Oh my gosh I love this shirt but my best friend is going to laugh at me if I get it" extravaganza. Truth? You cannot make everyone happy. That's why you should just make yourself happy. Sound selfish to you? Think again.
 Music is a wonderful thing, and people take it very seriously. Unfortunately, a lot of people believe what music you listen to represents who you are. That is a LIE LIE LIE. I myself have Phantom of the Opera and my favorite anti-society pro-save-the-duckies band on the same CD, along with what one would call "screamo", and a pop song or two. What does this make me? An...opera singing punk hippie with a hidden agenda? Perhaps to you, but I think it makes me awesome. So forget about MTV'S Top 50 and give your ears what they like to hear...unless your ears DO like MTV'S Top 50, then proceed happily.
 This one is overused and worn out and I do not deny it. But I'm covering the basic points here, so get used to it: Your friends ALL have Uggs, right? But you think it's wrong to kill animals for toasty feet, okay? So what do you do? You...don't buy Uggs! It seems like an obvious answer here and now, but peer pressure is real and it is ever so present. If you like that flowy skirt that is ankle length and has pretty fish embroidered on it, BUY IT (if you can afford it, of course)! Forget about what your friends will do. Buy for you and only you, because only you know who you are!

, "OMG she is so emo!" Um...okay? Seriously, though, stereotypes dilute the lake of being yourself-ness. Don't cut your left leg off to fit in a mold that you clearly aren't meant to fit in. Forget everything you've learned about goths and preps and druggies and stoners and skaters and jocks and geeks and emos and scene-queens and everything else I missed! Seriously. "He who trims himself to suit others will soon whittle himself away." -- Raymond Hull

, An awesome example: Gather a group of your closest, funniest friends and dress like a bunch of creepers. Skirts over shoulders, scarves around heads, Santa hats and French berets, mismatched shoes, tutus and knee high socks, gloves and scarves, insane makeup, and whatever else you can find in your closet. Then, go to the mall. Walk around, browse, get a French Vanilla cappuccino. People WILL look at you funny, they WILL stare, they will yell out weird and encouraging comments, and they will think mean thoughts about you. But who cares? You're having fun...maybe they should try it sometime!

, You are smart, cool, lovely, stunning, beautiful, hilarious, awesome, talented, and adorable. You're a free spirit, you're creative, you're amazing, and you're UNIQUE. Never, ever forget it, and take it for what it's worth. :)

