 It is extremely important for your elderly parents to have easy access to quality health care wherever they reside. If you are assisting them with a move so they can be closer to you, be sure to research offices and hospitals where they can access a good health care provider.Have your parents connect with their current health care provider prior to moving to ask for recommendations in your area. Help them call prospective physicians and specialists to set up initial appointments. This will help them become acquainted with their new services.
It is advisable that these phone calls happen well in advance of any move.
Be sure that your parents sign all releases of information with their current primary care providers so that all medical documentation can be faxed over to the new provider in advance. Have your parents keep a hard copy of the records, as well.
 If you are upset or frustrated because your parents refused, think about the gravity of the decision. Moving can have a major impact on their life satisfaction–leaving familiar surroundings, friends, familiar medical care, and possibly a home they built and you grew up in.

Pressuring your parents to move can have negative ramifications. Elderly adults who move nearer to their children may sacrifice many elements that made their lives their own. In fact, many elderly adults feel lonely, out of place, and depressed.You can alleviate these concerns by taking the whole process slowly. That's why it's important to have such a conversation well before your parents need to be close by. Give them time to gradually get used to the idea, or to consider possible alternatives.
 Having your parents move nearby can also create a shift in your own lifestyle. Research shows that caregivers may spend as much as 40 hours providing care when their parents relocate. The move won’t just be a dramatic change for them, it will affect you and your family, too.Carefully weigh the personal cost of your parent’s move. Will it actually be better for everyone involved if they relocate? Will your siblings help you manage caregiving responsibilities?

, A move to a new area requires a lot of planning. If you are intending to bring up the subject again in the future, it’s best to compile a list of resources. That way, you’ll have everything handy next time.

Assess the quality of health care in your area. Research and contact local elderly care advocates in your area. Get pamphlets from assisted living facilities to learn more about their amenities.
In the meantime, it may also be helpful to identify services like ElderCare Locator that helps you arrange transportation to doctor’s appointments and other needs for your long-distance parents.