 Water flushes toxins from your system and carries nutrients to your cells. This helps to prevent dry skin by keeping your skin nourished and hydrated. You should aim to drink at least two liters of water per day.
 A healthy and balanced diet will help your skin by providing the vitamins and nutrients that the body needs to stay healthy and hydrated. Try to eat at least 2 portions of green, leafy vegetables and 2 portions of seasonal fruits daily. Fruit and veg with a high-water content, such as watermelon, broccoli and tomatoes, are especially good for hydration., Eating foods containing the good types of fat contributes to the body's overall health - increasing blood flow and the delivery of nutrients to all the body's cells, including skin. Try to eat more foods containing monounsaturated fat, such as avocados, olives and peanut butter, and more foods containing polyunsaturated fats, such as salmon, walnuts and tofu., Taking supplements is an easy and effective way to increase your intake of key nutrients and vitamins, which help to promote healthy and hydrated skin. Try taking a fish oil supplement, which is great for dry skin and eyes, or increase your intake of vitamin E, an antioxidant which repairs and protects skin., Salty and fried foods will dehydrate the body, exacerbating dry skin problems. Limit your intake of these foods as much as possible to avoid dehydration and benefit your overall health.
 The negative side effects of smoking are well-documented, but you may not know that smoking is also bad for the skin. The tar contained in cigarettes clogs the pores, leading to blackheads and breakouts. Smoking hampers your breathing ability which inhibits circulation and deprives the skin cells of oxygen. Smoking also depletes the tissues of vitamin C, which is essential for healthy-looking skin.
 Alcohol dehydrates the body, thus dehydrating the skin. It decreases the body's ability to absorb fluids, leading to a loss of water, electrolytes and minerals. This causes dry, red, easily irritated skin. Try to drink alcohol in moderation, and when you are drinking, have a glass of water between drinks.