 The easiest way to do this is to type internet speed into Google and then click the RUN SPEED TEST button near the top of the search results. This will give you an estimate of your computer's current download speed.

If you see that your download speed is significantly faster than files are actually downloading, the problem most likely isn't with your Internet.
If your download speed is much slower than your Internet package and router allow for, you need to minimize the number of devices connected to the Internet.;
, The more devices you have on your network, the slower your Internet will be. If you can disable consoles, phones, televisions, tablets, and alternate computers, your own computer's downloads will be faster., When you're downloading a big (or a small) file, it helps to turn off apps that are taking up your bandwidth.


For example, you'd close BitTorrent if it was running in the background while you attempted to download a Windows update.
 Netflix, Hulu, and even YouTube can be a serious drain on your download speed. Even if it's only by a marginal amount, disabling these services will boost your download speeds.

You should also close any non-essential browser windows or tabs.
 If your computer isn't using an Ethernet connection, connect it to your router with an Ethernet cable and see if your downloads increase in speed.

If your downloads do increase in speed, your wireless connection to the router is poor. Try staying closer to the router or purchasing a stronger router.
If the download speed doesn't increase, the problem is either with the router or your computer.
You can reset your router's cache by unplugging both the router and the modem, waiting for a minute or so, and then plugging everything back in.
 As noble as it may be to give back to your favorite torrenting community by uploading, doing so while downloading will all but kill your download speeds. Wait to seed until all of your downloads have completed and you're no longer using the Internet (e.g., when you're at work or asleep)., This action disguises what you're downloading so that your ISP doesn't selectively throttle it. (ISPs will throttle if they know a BitTorrent client is doing a lot of downloading.) To do this:


Click Options in the BitTorrent or uTorrent window.
Click Preferences.
Click BitTorrent.
Click the "Outgoing" drop-down box.
Select Forced.
Click Apply, then click OK.
 If your router is more than a couple of years old, it will invariably begin to slow down, and it won't handle downloads as well as a newer one.

When purchasing a new router, make sure you look at models that support the same download speed as your Internet package (or, ideally, higher download speeds).
 Some Internet connections simply aren't able to handle hefty downloads, such as console or computer game installations. Many ISPs have a "Gamer" package that prioritizes download speed, though you'll likely have to pay significantly more for this package than you would for a standard Internet package., If you've tried everything else and you can't get your download speeds to increase, you'll need to call your ISP and tell them about the problems you're experiencing.

You may even need to switch your ISP if you live in a remote-enough area.
 Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or press ⊞ Win., It's in the bottom-left side of the Start window., It's near the top of the Settings page., This option is beneath the "Change your network settings" heading on the Status tab., It will be on the Connections page. This will select it., This button is in the top row of options in the window. Clicking it will open the connection's settings., It's in the window that's in the middle of Wi-Fi Properties.

You may first need to click the Networking tab at the top of Wi-Fi Properties.
 It's near the bottom of the window., It's near the bottom of the Properties window., Do so in the "Preferred DNS server" field. Reliable DNS servers include the following:


OpenDNS - Enter 208.67.222.222.

Google - Enter 8.8.8.8.
 Do so in the "Alternate DNS server" field:


OpenDNS - Enter 208.67.220.220.

Google - Enter 8.8.4.4.
 This saves your DNS settings., It's at the bottom of the window., Once your computer finishes booting up, you can test your download speeds; if your network was the reason they were slow, they should be faster now., Click the Apple icon in the top-left corner of the screen., This is near the top of the Apple drop-down menu., It's a globe-shaped icon in the System Preferences window., It should be in the pane on the left side of the window., You'll find this near the middle of the window., It's at the top of the window., This option is below the DNS Servers window., OpenDNS and Google both have reliable, quick DNS servers:


Google - 8.8.8.8 or 8.8.4.4.

OpenDNS - 208.67.222.222 or 208.67.220.220

If you want to enter a preferred and an alternate server address, type in one address (e.g., 8.8.8.8), type a comma, type a space, and then type the second address (e.g., 8.8.4.4).
 It's on the far-right side of the tabs at the top of the window., This box is near the top of the Hardware page., The "MTU" box is below the "Configure" box., It's below the "MTU" box., It's at the bottom of the page., This button is at the bottom of the page. Your settings will be saved and applied to your current Wi-Fi network., Once your computer finishes booting up, you can test your download speeds; if your network was the reason they were slow, they should be faster now.