 People that put others down may do it for several reasons. It is not always on purpose and may not always be meant to hurt you.Understanding what the person's motive is can help you determine how to deal with her.


Some people do it because they are insecure or jealous. They are trying to feel better about themselves by putting you down.Some do it because they are trying to impress someone or get attention.For example, the coworker that criticizes your work in front of the supervisor.
Others don’t realize they are doing it or just don’t communicate well. For example, the grandmother that says, “That’s a nice shirt. It covers your stomach well.”
Sometimes people aren’t really trying to be mean or hurt your feelings. They may just consider it harmless teasing. For example, a friend that calls you "short stuff"., Some comments are just annoying and you can ignore them. Other comments are truly mean and hurtful and should be addressed.Deciding where that line is for you will help you determine how to address the situation.


For example, when your brother puts you down it may be annoying. But you know he probably doesn’t mean it and isn't actually trying to hurt your feelings. You may not even want to address it with him unless it gets way out of hand.
But, a co-worker that always makes rude remarks to you that are upsetting will probably need to be addressed.
If the insults are discriminatory or happen a lot, the person is crossing the line and should be reported.
 People that don’t know you well, but put you down are probably doing it for a bad reason (or they could just be annoying). Don’t cause a scene, but do let them know that it’s not okay.


If possible, have the conversation in private. This cuts down her need to "put on a show" for other people and maintains the respect of both of you.
You might say, “During the discussion you made some harsh comments about my idea. I appreciate constructive feedback, but not insults. Please don’t do that again.”
If she starts putting you down while you are trying to talk to her about it, then end the conversation.
If the behavior continues or gets worse, you may need to report it.
 Although it may start as harmless teasing, sometimes it can go too far and you need to tell the person to cut it out. Don’t laugh as you tell her to stop or throw in an insult of your own. She won’t take you seriously and the put-downs will continue. Be assertive, using a calm, clear voice when you tell her to stop.


For example, “Hahaha. Cut it out, Dumbo ears” is not a good way to tell your sister to stop putting you down.
Look her in the eyes and in a calm, serious voice try saying, “Ok. That’s enough. I know you think it’s funny, but it really bothers me, so I’m asking you to stop.”
If she doesn't immediately stop, tell her, “I was serious when I asked you to stop,” and then leave. She will most likely come after you and apologize. Sometimes those closest to us don’t know when we are serious.
 Sometimes parents, teachers, or supervisors put us down, often without knowing it. Let these people know that their put-downs bother you and that you want them to stop. This makes the person aware of what he is doing and how you feel about it. It is also an important step in dealing with the situation long-term.Check with your Human Resources Department at work and see what they suggest on how to handle put-downs from superiors.
Talk to him one-on-one, if you are comfortable doing so. It will make the conversation less awkward for both of you.
Try saying, “When you call my work silly, it really bothers me.” Or, “I know I don’t always get everything done, but please don’t call me lazy. It hurts my feelings.”
Tell another adult you trust or the HR department if you aren’t comfortable talking to him one-on-one or if you feel he is putting you down on purpose.

