 In order to get married in Sims FreePlay, you will need to have the 2013 Holiday Update installed. Most apps should update automatically, so most people should have access to this already, but you can double check by opening your device's App Store and checking for updates.;
, This Quest will lead you towards getting engaged, and can get you a free wedding ring and access to the Wedding Bundle. The Quest is unlocked at Level 6, and you have a two daytime limit to receive the bonuses. If you don't complete the quest in time, you can still get married but will have to buy the Wedding Bundle (clothes) from the cash store. Completing this Quest is required for the first marriage. Complete the first few goals in order to start the marriage process:Rich Lather
Invite a Sim over
Flirt
Make Fancy Coffee
Be Romantic
Form a Budding Romance
Watch a Movie
Start Dating
Kiss on the cheek
Send a Sim home
Sleep through alarm
Expand a room
Buy a 3 Star bed
Bake Heart Shaped Chocolates
Grow onions
Invite a Sim over
Be Romantic
Eat a meal
Bake "Chocolate Pudding"
Become Partners

, Once you are at the Partner stage, you can take your Sims' relationship to the next level and start WooHooing. Completing the Partner bar will allow you to get engaged. During the Partner stage, you will need to complete the following tasks:


WooHoo
Buy two Roses

, There is a known issue with Sims FreePlay when trying to get engaged with someone you are already living with, causing the engagement to fail. Before proposing, make sure that both Sims are living in separate houses, moving one out if necessary. You can move back in together after the engagement.
 Once your two Sims are Partners, you'll need to continue building their Relationship status by being Romantic. After the Relationship raises enough, you will see the option to "Propose Marriage" when you go to select an Action. Selecting this will bring up the Engagement Ring store.


In the "Love is in the Air" quest, you will be given the best ring for free. Future couples will require you to purchase a ring for Simoleons or LP.
After successfully proposing, perform the "Call a Friend" action.
 Once you are engaged, your Sims will need to move in together in order to progress the relationship. Choose the house that suits both of them the best and start their lives together.
 Now that your Sims are engaged, you will need to fill the Engaged bar to allow the Sims to get married. Perform lots of Romantic and WooHoo actions to fill the bar. There are several actions you will need to complete along the way:


Invite three other Sims over
Dance to Sim FM Hottest 100
Build the Park
Invite three other Sims to the Park
Ask the Ducks about the ring

, Once the Engaged bar is full, you will see the "Get Married" option appear when you select one of the Sims. After a few seconds, your Sims will be married and you will receive an announcement.


If you completed the quest in the time limit, you will receive access to the Wedding Bundle clothes in the Create-A-Sim mode or from the Fancy Dress Store.
 After getting married, your Sims can now have a baby Sim. You will need to unlock the Children's Store and then purchase a crib to receive the baby. See this guide for more details on having and raising a baby Sim.
 Once you have completed your first marriage, you can start marrying other couples. In order to get the option to marry, the two Sims will need to have a very high Relationship with one another. You can raise your Relationship by performing the "Be Romantic" action. Any Purple or Pink interactions will raise your Romantic Relationship. There are three stages of Romance that you will need to progress through before you have the option to get engaged: Budding Romance, Dating, and Partners., Once the Partner bar is filled, your Sim can propose to the other Sim. When proposing with your Sim, purchase the most expensive ring you can afford. Cheaper rings have a higher chance of the proposal failing.


If your proposal fails, try again with a more expensive ring.Make sure your Sims are not living together before proposing. They can move in after they are engaged.
 After a successful engagement, move your Sims in together and work on filling the Engaged bar. Unlike the initial quest, there is nothing special you need to do here, just be Romantic and WooHoo often.
 When marrying couples after the initial couple, you don't need to go to the park or tell friends. Marriage happens a few seconds after you select it, no matter where your Sims are.

