 If you or your partner has loose brackets on his/her braces, you will need to be careful. If you’re the one with the braces, check them carefully before you’re planning to kiss anyone.


It isn't very likely that one of you will get stuck.Modern braces tend to be less obtrusive than the ones in classic movies where two hapless teens get stuck together.However, a stray wire or bracket could poke your partner, which could kill the mood.;
, Most orthodontists will give you some of this after attaching your braces. It’s good for keeping your braces from cutting the inside of your mouth while you’re getting used to them. Wax will also keep the wires from your braces from poking out, reducing the chance of them getting caught on your partner's braces or face., He or she might not have kissed anyone with braces before. Explain that he or she will need to tell you if your braces are poking him/her. Tell your partner s/he probably shouldn’t touch your braces with the tongue or lips -- this can get really painful. Even though this can be embarrassing to talk about, it’s better to do it before it happens.
 Be gentle. Try lots of small kisses at first so that you get used to kissing someone with your braces in and s/he gets used to kissing someone with braces. If it’s going well, keep going and try for longer kisses. Figure out what you like best and do it.You might want to avoid too much tongue when making out, as getting it caught on your braces will not be fun.
Focus on using your lips to caress your partner. Ask him or her to do so as well.Keep your kissing soft and gentle to avoid getting tangled.
 You might be tempted to go for a passionate love-bite or two in your usual make-out sessions, but it's a good idea to avoid that with braces. You could end up cutting your partner's skin with your braces.


Keep your braces away from areas with hair, which might get snagged., Making out isn’t just about kissing -- it’s about getting close to another person. Don’t do anything that you’re not comfortable with, but if you’re already kissing someone, chances are s/he won’t mind if you stroke his/her hair, cheek, or shoulder.
 When you snuggle or cuddle with someone you like, your body releases a chemical called oxytocin, which helps you feel connected to that person.Bump your make-out sessions up a notch by cuddling with your partner as you make out. It's a pain-free way to make things sweeter.
 Making out isn't just about lip contact. Tell your sweetie how you feel about him or her. Offer a compliment on his great new t-shirt or her beautiful eyes. Express your feelings for your partner with your words as well as your kisses, and you can't go wrong., If you and your partner like each other, braces are not going to be a big deal. If you’re both relaxed, chances are you won’t have problems.If you’re too stressed out, you might bump teeth or harm you or your partner. Take a deep breath and just have fun!


If you're feeling nervous, try telling yourself something positive, like "Lots of people make out and don't get their braces caught. I'll be okay."

, Even though you might worry that you and your partner might get stuck together if you both have braces, it almost never happens. If by some crazy chance it does, stay calm and untangle yourselves. Figure out where the braces are linked and unhook them. You’ll probably both need a trip to the orthodontist afterward.Try laughing about the incident instead of letting it frustrate you. Sure, it's embarrassing in the moment, but it'll be a funny story later.
 Your orthodontist will have warned you about eating hard foods and the possibilities for breaking your braces. This means that your partner can’t be pressing too hard against your braces, either.Avoid bumping your teeth together. You could crack your braces or cut your partner., There’s nothing less romantic than food or plaque on your teeth when you’re going to make out with someone. Work slowly and carefully to make sure that your teeth and mouth are sparkling clean, whether you have braces or not!, In addition to brushing, daily flossing will help keep your mouth clean and ready for kissing. Use an orthodontic floss threader to help you get the floss under and around your braces. You may also want to use a water flosser, like a WaterPik, to help flush debris away., Use a mouthwash that contains fluoride twice a day after you brush and floss. Mouthwash can get into the nooks and crannies around your braces and help flush out any leftover debris. Fluoride-containing mouthwash can also help protect against cavities.