 If the candle wax has only reached the tips of your hair, you can use a shower. If the candle wax has sunk in towards your roots, it is best to use a sink. A sink allows you to be more up close and personal with the wax you wish to remove.To determine this, run your fingers through your hair. Start at the roots, and then move outwards towards the tips. Feel whether the wax has drifted downwards, or has stayed mostly near the edge.
While running your fingers through your hair, stand in front of a mirror. This can make it easier for you to see if you have a hard time feeling the wax.
If you have a hard time determining this, use a friend or relative. They can comb through your hair and will be able to see better.;
, The hotter the water it is, the softer the wax will become, and therefore make it easier to remove. Soak your hair in the warm water until your hair is soaking wet. However, make sure not to turn up the water to hot that it irritates your skin.
 Pour a healthy amount of shampoo into your hands. While soaking your hair in the warm water, run the shampoo through your hair.


Start at the roots and move outwards. Use slow, methodical motions. Make sure to touch all of the wax as you are shampooing.
If you feel any of the wax already starting to come undone, peel it out with your hand, and place it to the side of the sink/shower. If you let it go down the drain, it could clog it up.
 Rinse the shampoo out of your hair first, and any wax coming undone. Then add a healthy amount of conditioner to your hands, and run it through your hair.


Start at the roots and move outwards. Make sure your hair is still wet when you are applying the conditioner. You want to maintain the heat coming from the water.
If you feel any wax starting to come undone as you apply the conditioner, remove it with your fingers and place it to the side of the sink/shower. If you let it go down the drain, that could result in a clog.
 Step out of the shower, or pull your head up from the sink. Wrap your hair in a dry towel or paper towel. Let your hair remain still at first, drying on it's own. Then work the towel through your hair.


Try not to use one part of the towel more than once as you are drying, as wax might come out. You do not want wax to me removed, then stick somewhere else in your hair again.
 Stand in front of a mirror, and run your fingers through your hair. Try peeling out the wax, which should be incredibly soft at this point.


You can also use a comb or brush. Each time you run the comb/brush through your hair, check to see if any wax is sticking. Remove any wax from the comb/brush before you take another pass through.
Get a friend or relative to check your hair for you. They might be able to see better where any excess wax is still hiding.
 If one pass through does not get all of the wax out, try again. Make sure to let your hair sit, at least for a few hours before you wash it again. Washing your hair too many times in a row can cause damage to your hair.


However, make sure not to go days without washing. The wax can recede farther down towards the roots, and become harder and harder to remove the longer you wait.