 Are you going for an ultra-short punk rock look, or just taking a few inches off to give yourself a nice summer style? Whatever kind of new look you're going for, it's very important to match your style to the shape of your face. Keep your hair longer and layered to make your face look longer, and keep it cropped to emphasize petite features.


If you have a very round face, you could try a bob or a layered cut that frames your face better.
If you have a narrower face or more highly defined structure, a pixie style may look better with your features.;
, If you want a dynamic and layered cut, that will involve sectioning off your hair into usually three separate sections and cutting them at slightly different lengths to get the hair to fall gently and evenly with the back of your head. This will take a little more work to pull off, and might require some help and mirrors.


To cut your hair in layers, separate your hair into three sections along the back of your head, tying each with a hair band. Cut them separately, going a few inches at a time until each is the desired length. Then work back over the layers to make sure they'll be uniform.
 Maybe one of the easiest ways to cut long hair short is to use hair clippers and start buzzing. If you're tired of long hair and want to go ultra-short, you don't need to give it much time or thought with a good pair of clippers.


Another way to go the quick and dirty route is to put your hair back into a ponytail and just cut it off. Using a mirror, go back over the ends and clean them up, snipping the ends at angles so it'll look more layered.
 As with any haircut, it can help to find some pictures of hairstyles that you really admire to help you get geared up for the cut. If you think you might like having short hair, it'll definitely help assuage any fears you have if you pick out some flattering short styles to emulate with your own.


Try to find someone with a similarly featured face. If you've got a rounder face, it probably wouldn't make any sense to pick someone with a very long face to model your hair after.
 If you want to get a lot of hair cut off, it's usually best to go and talk to a hairdresser who cuts hair professionally. You're perfectly capable of cutting your own hair, but if it's going to be a big job, it's usually best to go to a pro. You can talk about what will look best for your own style, and make sure the cut gets done evenly and professionally. It'll look great.
 If it's been a long time since you've had your hair cut, it's usually a good idea to do some treating to make sure that the sudden loss of body doesn't make your hair look limp and thin. Using treatments along with regular shampoo and conditioner will help to keep your hair strong and healthy.


Try to use treatments that contain keratin which helps to strengthen and nourish your hair. If your hair is severely damaged, use double or triple concentrated keratin treatments.
 Comb your hair thoroughly and cut your hair damp. Straighten out curls or waves with a straightener tool or a brush and some hairspray or water. If the curls or waves are very loose, you don't need to worry too much.


The straighter, the easier. You can use curlers, rollers, or hair tools to restore the curls or waves once the hair is cut, unless you like the straight look.
 Hair shouldn't be cut with a ratty old pair of kitchen shears. Make sure that you're using sharp, clean scissors appropriate for cutting hair, so the job goes smoothly and your hair ends up looking great.


Some people like to use razor combs to cut hair, but if your hair is very long, you need to do some cutting with regular scissors first. If you want to finish it with a razor comb, after you've layered, that's fine.
 If you haven't gotten your hair cut for a while, there's going to be a lot of it to collect. If you start with a ponytail, you'll be able to keep it all in one place relatively easily, but otherwise you're going to make a big mess. Take some steps to make sure that it'll be easy to clean up, if you're going to cut indoors.


Make sure you're somewhere with hard, laminated floors, like the kitchen or the bathroom. Clear out all bathmats, rugs, and other things that'll get in the way of your sweeping. Sweep up the hair immediately when you're finished, into a trash can.
Alternatively, going outside can make clean up a whole lot easier. Set up a chair on a warm night in the backyard to cut your hair and don't worry about cleaning it up.
 The back of your head will be the hardest part to get cut. Regardless of whether or not you or someone else will be doing the actual cutting, it's a good idea to have a couple of hand mirrors ready so that you can periodically check on the work and make sure you're not taking too much off the back. Mirrors allow you to see your head from all angles, making sure that you're not missing anything.
 Depending on how damaged your hair is, you will generally want to cut just above where a majority of your split ends are, a half inch or so. This will cause your hair to be much healthier and will help you to maintain your locks. Worry about getting the hair styled and shaped after you've done the damage-control of getting your split ends taken off.
 If you are uncertain on what style you want and are not happy with what has been advised or do not think that it will suit you, start by cutting your hair inch by inch. This way you can tell how short is too short. Don't try to get it over with and chop the hair off in a few seconds. Take your time.


Measure off the hair accordingly and hold the hair straight in between your fingers. Cut in a straight, even line, unless you're going for a bob or other hairstyle. For layers, clip off the hair being used for the next layer or so in sections.
 You don't want to cut straight across your hair, but make short diagonal snips when you've got your hair about as long as you want it. This helps to keep hair looking healthy and flowing, rather than lank and flat.


You want to avoid making long, straight cuts on your hair, or it'll look flat and dull. Remember, your hair will dry and won't be as straight (even if you have very straight hair), so there's little point in worrying about getting all the ends the exact same length. Hair looks dynamic when the ends are "evenly irregular."

, Often changing from long hair to short hair can be such a change that you may not like your end result at all. Often the change only seems bad to you and it can usually take up to a week for the hair to grow to a nice length or for you to get used to it.


Try to style it in a few different ways and give yourself a chance to experiment. It'll always go back, so even if you're not thrilled with it at first, treat this as a fun little project. Try new styles you've never tried before. Be a new you.

