 Over time, your baby will build up all the muscles that are needed to turn over. By about four months old, the child should be able to hold his head up and raise himself to the elbows during tummy-time. You may also notice some rocking back and forth on the stomach, kicking the legs, and moving the arms as though swimming.All of this means that your baby is nearly there. You can encourage the next steps by using toys. For example, wiggle a toy next to your baby on either side. Try to draw attention to the toy so that she rolls toward it.
If the toy is in your baby’s line of vision, make sure that it is just out of reach so that the child will try to grab and reach for it.
Try a variety of colorful toys or toys that make noise, as well. The idea is to use something attention-grabbing that will catch the baby’s interest – and that she’ll want to see or grab. For example, you might take a colorful rattle and shake it off to one side, slightly out of the child’s range of vision.
 You can also try to be the bait yourself instead of a toy! Lie down to one side of your baby, just out of reach, to encourage the child to roll over toward you and close the distance. This, too, can induce a first roll-over.Continue to talk, coo, or sing to your baby while you’re lying down. The idea is to be slightly out of reach or sight, so that the child wants to see you or move toward you.
 Don’t just limit your play to tummy-time. Let your baby play on his or her back, too, especially to get used to “rounded” positions – that is, pulling in and extending her feet and legs. This tucking movement is important in the motor skills that help to turn over, too.Achieving the rounded position is fairly easy, since most babies like to be on their backs. It will also be easier for you to interact with your baby and to keep the child’s attention while she is lying down.
Do playtime on the back on a soft surface. You can use the same blanket as for tummy-time, but also your lap or any flat surface.
If you’d like, encourage your baby to roll by gently and slowly rocking her back and forth on the back (or tummy), helping the child shift weight from side to side. You might do this along with a song.
 Rolling over for the first time might come as a surprise to your baby and to you. It can be a somewhat disturbing feeling for a baby, too. Keep encouraging, interacting, and applauding your baby as the child reaches this milestone.Your attention will keep your baby engaged and is key. Sing, talk, move, and laugh while you play. Show your encouragement by smiling, too!

