 Choose the fabric wisely. You may opt for a good quality cotton material, pure linen or a mixed fabric. This will assist you in being aware of the fabric type and its use accordingly.
 For clarity and accuracy, you may make square shapes on the fabric with a colored chalk to guide you through the stitches with directions. The couching thread which sits first on the fabric is sewn on with another thread. Thus forming a pattern gradually as you progress.

You must make sure that all the laid threads be parallel to each other for Kloster stitching.

If the laid thread is vertical, keep all the read of the laid threads placed vertically. If you start off with the laid thread horizontally, continue with all the laid thread horizontally.


To hold the fabric well in your hands, you may also use an embroidery hoop. This hoop will fix and hold the fabric open and free from creases.
 You must secure the thread initially. For that you may make a knot at the back of the fabric. You may start off at the bottom left corner. You must follow this thread as it is the first couching thread., The couching stitch would make the outline of the final stitch or design. For this you may lay down the couching thread and fasten it with upper stitches., It portrays the kloster stitch process being worked around a square or "box" shape. The stitch in the middle is the "lace stitch" (see below for instructions). Use the image to guide your sewing action.,,, Lay them evenly together., Kloster stitch is directed according to your choice of thread twisting. It could either be in a 'S' or 'Z' twisting pattern., Note that the lace stitch (pictured above) is not worked until the threads of the fabric are cut and drawn from the little squares made by the kloster stitch. The lace stitch is made by working in a single buttonhole stitch in the center mesh of each of the 4 sides of the kloster block.

To make sure the stitch is going well, maintain the thread work firm. It should not be too tight with no space nor should it be too loose with extra thread puffing up. Maintain just about the perfect pull while making Kloster stitches.

