 Iron sights on a rifle work in the same way the front sight tip and rear sight aperture work on a pistol. Ensure the front sight tip is centered on the target, and is centered in your view between the two tips of the rear sight aperture. This ensures your weapon is even and level.Rifle sight tips and rear sight aperture are often adjustable, as is uncommon with pistols. This allows you to adjust your sights to improve your accuracy.
You should sight in your rifle to make sure it is aimed exactly where you intend.
Sight picture and alignment also pertains to firing shotguns.
 Rifle scopes magnify your target to make it easier to aim at a specific point. Using a rifle scope can dramatically increase your accuracy over long distances as long as the weapon is properly sighted in and you practice solid shooting fundamentals. Establish sight picture in a rifle scope by centering the reticle of the scope on your target, and ensuring the circle you look through at the end of the scope is centered in your view through it.You can purchase scopes with varying levels of magnification based on the distance you intend to shoot.
The higher the magnification of the scope, the more difficult it can be to establish proper sight picture.
 You can adjust the elevation on a rifle scope by twisting the elevation knob. While there are many different brands of scopes, the elevation knob is commonly on the top of the scope. Turning the knob to the right will raise the point your round impacts the target. Turning the knob to the left will lower it.If you are firing at a further distance than the weapon is zeroed for, you will need to increase the elevation in the scope to compensate for the round dropping in height as it travels between your weapon and the target.
The elevation knob adjusts where your rounds will impact on the vertical axis (up and down).
 The windage knob is often located on the right side of a rifle scope and adjusts the impact point of the round on the horizontal axis (from left to right). If you are firing into a strong wind, you should adjust the windage into the wind to compensate for how the wind will push the round as it travels to the target. Turning the knob to the right will bring the rounds further to the right and vice versa.Depending on the rifle, ammunition, scope and distance from the target, adjustments to your windage will move the round different amounts for each click of the knob.
Look at the area between you and your target for signs of strong winds, then adjust your windage to suit.
 Always make sure the buttstock of the rifle is seated firmly in your shoulder. Place your dominant hand high on the pistol grip of the rifle or the buttstock where you can comfortable reach the trigger. Use your other hand to support the weapon. Whenever possible, use a bipod, sandbag or other stable object to rest the rifle on to prevent it from moving. If you are firing from a standing position, wear a tight sling that helps keep the rifle planted in your shoulder.Moving the barrel of the weapon even slightly can result in missing your target by feet over a large distance.
Try to use your bones to support the weapon instead of muscle. Fire from a seated or prone position when possible with your elbows resting on your knees or the ground to eliminate wobble created by tiring muscles.
Shoulder a shotgun in the same way you would shoulder a rifle.

