 Your work is automatically protected by copyright when it is "fixed in a tangible form," like a writing or drawing on a piece of paper.This means the U.S. copyright laws apply to your work as soon as you produce it, write it, record it, or draw it.


Remember, it isn't enough just to be the first to think of your idea or invention. If you tell someone your idea, but that person fixes it in a tangible form (e.g., writes it down) first, then that person owns the copyright, not you.;
, Copyright protects original works created by you. A patent protects inventions and discoveries. Trademark protects words, phrases, symbols and designs. Trademarked items (i.e. words, designs, etc.) identify and distinguish the source of the goods (and services) of one party from those of another party., Copyright protects original, tangible work you have created including things like writings, drawings, books and poems. It also protects:


movies
songs and sound recordings
artistic works like paintings and sculptures
computer software programs
architecture plans and drawings, Ideas are not protected by copyright law although the way they are expressed, in writing or otherwise, may be protected. Copyright also does not protect:


facts or concepts
domain names
slogans
systems or methods of operation
names (including band names) or titles, Your copyright affords you the exclusive right to make copies of your protected work, sell it, and distribute it. Your copyright also allows you to create adaptations or derivative pieces from your work, perform your work (e.g. like in a play) and display your work in public., For works created in 1978 or later, a copyright generally lasts for the duration of the last living author's life, plus an additional 70 years. If the work was made for hire, anonymous, or created under a pseudonym, the copyright lasts for the shorter of 95 years from the first publication or 120 years from the creation.Works created prior to 1978 may be subject to different duration rules, depending on when they were created, when they were published, how they were created, and whether the copyright was renewed. .You can find an overview of various copyright terms here.

There is no longer any need to renew a copyright. Works published in or after 1964 automatically have their maximum copyright term. For works published prior to 1964, the chance to renew has already passed.Since the copyright to your creation will extend beyond your life, you should consider to whom you would like to leave the rights to your work when you die.Keep your copyrighted work in mind when writing a will or creating an estate plan.
 If you so wish, you can register your copyright with the U.S. Copyright office. You might choose to register your copyright for several reasons:


A registered copyright is a matter of public record.
Registered copyright holders receive a certificate of registration from the U.S. Copyright Office.
You must register your copyright before you bring a lawsuit related to infringement of your work.Registered works may be eligible for statutory damages and attorney's fees if you win a lawsuit to protect your rights.If you register your work within five years of the first publication of the work, the registration is considered prima facie evidence, which puts the burden on the other party to prove that they had a copyright to the same idea before you did., The process of registering your copyright online is easy. Visit the U.S. Copyright Office's online registration site, the eCO system. You will need to register an account with the office to start your application.


A comprehensive tutorial is available here.

You will need to create a digital version of your work and upload it with the application. You can also request a shipping label so that you can mail your work to the office, instead.Pay the filing fee online and submit your application. Refer to the Fee page of the U.S. Copyright Office to find the current filing fee for filing a copyright and write a check for the filing fee.
 You can choose to register by mail instead by visiting the Forms page of the U.S. Copyright Office website. Select the appropriate form for filing. For example, if you are registering a novel, you select the Literary Form (Form TX), if you are registering a music recording, you select the Sound Recording Form (Form SR).


Print out the form and complete it. Refer to the form for guidance as to the number of copies of your work you need to include with your package and the mailing address.
Make a copy or copies of your copyrighted work.
Refer to the Fee page of the U.S. Copyright Office to find the current filing fee for filing a copyright and write a check for the filing fee.
Package your application, check and copyrighted work together in one package. If you are mailing items like CDs, DVDs or other fragile materials, it is best to place them in a box with sufficient packaging so they do not get damaged.
 After you have filed your application, whether by mail or online, you will receive a certificate of registration from the U.S. Copyright Office. This certificate is proof that your work is registered with the U.S. Copyright Office.
 While a copyright notice is not required to protect your copyright, it is a good idea to include one for several reasons. It may deter a would-be infringer from misusing your work.A notice is also helpful if you have to sue an infringer for misusing your work. The infringer cannot argue that he or she did not know your work was copyrighted if your work bears a copyright notice. A copyright notice may also make it easier to collect damages in any potential infringement lawsuit.A copyright notice should contain: the word “copyright" and a “c” in a circle (©) as well as the date of publication and the name of the author and/or owner of the copyright., If some is copying your copyrighted work, send a cease and desist letter before taking further legal action. Whether you send the letter yourself or hire an attorney, your letter should state that you own the copyright and instruct the unauthorized copier to cease and desist all copyright infringement. You should also demand written confirmation that the copier acknowledges your letter and intends to stop infringing on your copyright.


You can find a sample cease-and-desist letter here.
 If someone is copying your work without permission and refuses to stop even after you have notified them of your copyright, you can file a lawsuit to protect your rights. Find an attorney who specializes in copyright law to assist you with your lawsuit.


Ask friends and associates for attorney referrals. You can also utilize referral services through your local or county bar association. Contact your local bar association and ask they operate a referral service.

