 Avoid a victim mentality. Believing you are a victim can lead to increases in negative mood states such as jealousy, anger, and resentment.Know that you can work toward controlling your emotions. You are not a passive participant in your emotional state. If you are jealous or envious you can learn to cope. Remind yourself of this fact and that you can distract yourself, set goals, process your feelings or work toward another positive coping strategy.
Understand that no one can make you feel a certain way. How you choose to react or behave is yours to own.
Empower yourself by using positive self-talk and saying or thinking to yourself, "I am in control of how I react to this. I can cope with this and choose a healthy option."

, Use your envy and jealousy as information on what you want to achieve. This can help reduce your negative emotions by replacing them with hope for future change.


If you are envious over something substantial, such as intelligence or a personality trait, think how you could be more like that person. Perhaps you could read books on a particular subject or learn how to be more outgoing.
For example, if you want to seem smarter in school, study or do extra work.
If you like that someone is outgoing, try starting conversations at parties or meetings.
 Some people may resort to negative ways of coping, such as spying on others, being aggressive, or engaging in risky situations, in order to try to reduce jealousy or envy. However, these options pose a threat to relationships and cause even cause legal ramifications.


Avoid social media if you are feeling envious or jealous. Looking at other people happy, on extravagant vacations, with pictures of their expensive meals can increase your envy overall. Looking at Facebook can also increase your jealousy of people that interact with your romantic partner.Avoid aggressive behaviors. Jealousy can lead to acts of aggression against others.Don’t bully others. Cyber-bullying has become more of an issue with the extensive role technology now plays in everyday life.Limit alcohol and avoid drugs. These substances can cause you to lose your inhibition and make poor decisions.
Avoid being too clingy on your partner if you are jealous.This can turn him off.

