 While most sunflower varieties grow to be several feet tall, there are some miniature varieties that peak out at under three feet tall. Here's a list of popular varieties, large and small:



Mammoth: Their wooly namesakes may have gone extinct, but mammoth sunflowers grow just as tall as the prehistoric beasts, reaching a height of 9 to 12 feet (2.7 to 3.7 meters).

Autumn Beauty: This variety produces large flowers that grow up to six inches in diameter. It gets its name from the fall-like spectrum of flowers it produces. Bronze and mahogany flowers are not uncommon on these large stalks that can reach seven feet.

Sunbeam: Sunbeam is a medium-sized variety, standing at about five feet tall and producing flowers about five inches in diameter. Sunbeam flower petals are long and asymmetrical and the flower center is often yellow, making for a dramatic addition to any bouquet.

Teddy Bear: This miniature variety caps out at three feet tall and is perfect if you are tight on space in your garden.;
, Sunflowers thrive in warm to hot climates with full sunshine during the day. Climates with long hot summers are perfect for growing sunflowers.
 If possible, it is best to shield sunflowers from the wind. Plant sunflower seeds along a fence, the side of a house, or behind a row of sturdy trees. If possible, plant your sunflowers on the north side of your garden. This prevents the large sunflower stalks from shading other plants in your garden.
 Sunflowers prefer a slightly acidic to somewhat alkaline soil with a pH between 6.0 and 7.5. However, sunflowers are relatively resilient and can grow in most types of soil.


Your local agricultural extension office should have soil testing forms, bags and instructions available. After making adjustments to the soil, test the pH level again.
If the pH level is below 6.0, enrich the soil using acid compost or planting mix.
If the soil pH is above 7.5, mix in granular sulfur to lower the pH level.
 Though sunflowers are extremely resilient, the one thing that can harm them is flooded soil.


Be sure that your plot has proper drainage, or opt to build a simple planter box instead.
If necessary, build a raised garden box out of cedar boards, which come in 8-foot lengths. Cedar is a good choice for a garden bed because it won't rot when exposed to water., Plant sunflower seeds at the beginning of summer after the soil has completely warmed. This usually occurs between mid-April and late May.

