 When you become a Lolita, you're representing every other Lolita of the world; so remember to leave a nice impression on people who are unfamiliar with the trend!


Shower regularly. Remember to use soap and invest in purchasing skin-care products for your face. Such as an exfoliator, everyday cleanser and oil-free moisturizer. Clear skin is a great thing to have. Even if you don't have it, getting into the routine of using these will lead you down the road to achieving it!
Brush at least twice a day; before going to bed and after waking up in the morning. Preferably with whitening toothpaste for a pearly smile! Don't forget to gently scrub your tongue afterwards. It removes the bacteria that causes bad breath!
Keep your nails free of dirt and trimmed to equal lengths. If you choose to polish your nails, make sure the color you use meets the school's uniform guidelines. Only wear bold colors such as black and red if you're going for a Gothic Lolita look. Clear and baby pink are perfect choices for Sweet Lolitas as they make your hands look very delicate.

Hair is a very important asset to keep in mind. Make sure you wash it in lukewarm, or, even cold water to prevent the scalp from drying up and secreting extra oil. Apply shampoo and conditioner according to your hair-type and needs, but ones with sweet scents are always nice!;
, Anything you'd primarily keep in a pencil-case is an article of stationery. Believe it or not, the contents of a person's pencil-case tell you a lot about them.


Keep your things clean and organized. If your pencil-case has compartments, use them. You should use the smaller one(s) for things like pens, pencils and erasers; whereas the larger one should be used to carry bigger items such as a calculator and ruler.
If your pencil-case is small, or doesn't have compartments, it's fine to mix everything together, as long as you keep the lids to your pens on tight and sharpen pencils in a waste-basket and not in your pencil-case. For convenience, it's best to buy a sharpener with a small container attached. The shavings fall into it and can easily be disposed of whenever you're ready/when the container becomes full.


Cute stationery would include, but are not limited to, anything with Japanese cartoon characters on them (such as Hello Kitty, Domo and Rilakkuma). The cutest erasers are the ones shaped like animals and food!

, If you haven't got one already! Backpacks are considered to be cuter than shoulder/messenger bags because most little kids take them to school. They're also the best choice in terms of comfort and are widely popular even amongst adults in Japan. If you just aren't a fan of backpacks, anything is fine!


Feel free to get creative with your bag. Add clip-on plush toys, buttons, sew-on patches and charms. Like your pencil-case, your bag tells people a lot about your personality, too!

, If you had the "sexy school-girl" look in mind, Lolita fashion is definitely not for you! Because of its focus around the 1800s' Victorian and Rococo era of fashion, Lolitas' wardrobes are elegant and modest.


Wear your uniform's skirt/dress at a respectable height; at or just above the knees are acceptable.
Avoid ankle-socks! At or above-the-knee are a good length. As for color, it depends on what your school finds appropriate. White is a common color for Lolita socks, but black is slimming and makes any uniform seem a little more Japanese. It's all up to your dress-code regulations, comfort and personal style!
Mary Janes are a must; they're adorably old-fashioned and really give the Lolita essence. Any black pair is fine, as long as the heels are at a minimum. Flat ones would be a good choice to avoid crossing a line and to walk comfortably.
 If you're allowed to do makeup, you can use it to enhance your Lolita look. Wear white eyeshadow around your tear ducts. Curl your eyelashes and wear mascara so that your eyelashes look really dark.
 But Lolita hairstyles are typically straight and/or curled; using either an iron or hair-rollers. This doesn't mean that you must straighten your hair to be classified as a Lolita! Wearing your hair as it looks naturally is great.



Pigtails are adorable, if your hair has the length for it! Especially if you have bangs of some sort. High pigtails are favored, but low ones are good, too.
Accessorise your hair with ribbons, bows and headbands! If you're a fan of wearing your hair down, a different bow everyday will keep people guessing and spice up your hair!
For a Gothic Lolita look, you may want to back-comb (or, tease) your hair for an edgy image.
 Bento is a Japanese boxed meal; usually consisting of steamed rice and various side dishes. Bento boxes can be purchased from stores that sell Japanese goods or simply online. It isn't required to eat Bento from an official 'Bento Box', it just adds to the atmosphere of the meal. Any regular, sterilized container will do!



Freshly cooked rice is preferred. Once it's finished steaming, let it cool down for a few minutes before packing it into your container.
Cook some side dishes (such as Steamed Vegetables, Teriyaki Chicken or anything else you feel like!) or re-heat leftovers. Once again, wait for them to cool and carefully pack them into your container. Try to avoid perishable or liquid-like food. Arranging your Bento in the shape of an animal or character is very cute! Seaweed pieces are great to be used as eyes.

Eating Bento with chopsticks is a lot more fun than with a fork. Give it a try!

,