 Order your bills from largest to smallest with the larger bills on the bottom of the pile. Stacking your money appropriately will make you familiar with where your bills are so that you do not have to continuously pull all of your money out of the clip or expose it to wandering eyes.Place your one hundred dollar bills first, fifties second, twenties third, tens fourth, fives fifth, and finally your ones on top. If you are missing any denomination, just skip it.
Once your bills are stacked properly, check to make sure they are aligned, smoothed, and pressed firmly together to place inside your clip.;
, After your money is ready to be placed in the clip decide if you want to take credit cards, a driver license, or identification with you. If you do, stack them in order of importance and then place them vertically on top of the money stack.
Make sure which way the cards are facing so that you can see the front of the card when you pull the money clip out of your pocket. This prevents from taking everything out of the clip at once.
 Once you are finished, fold everything neatly in half so that the larger bills are showing on the outside and the credit cards are in the middle once folded. Or, you could fold the money and place the credit cards on the outside of the folded stack of money, just make sure the money is facing outward when you remove the stack from your pocket.Place the folded side into the clip first making sure not to stretch the stack out. It should fit firmly and tightly with no wiggle room.
If you discover that you have too many bills or cards in your money clip, keep taking one out until the entire stack fits snuggly inside the clip.
If the stack is too tight in the money clip, you could accidently fling everything all over the place when you try to remove a bill or card from it. Or, getting a single bill out will be impossible and force you to take the entire stack out when you only needed one item.
 You have two options when you take either money or cards out of your money clip. You can either take the entire stack out, get what you need, then receive your change or card, and finally place everything back into the stack and into the money clip. The other option is to pull bills or cards from the middle of the stack.Stacking your money and cards permits you to pull from the middle of your stack. If you remember, smaller bills are in the middle and larger bills on the outside. Fish accordingly.
Once you get used to handling a money clip it will become easier to pull single bills or cards from it and that is one of the biggest advantages of having one.

