 Anti-inflammatory medications include drugs such as ibuprofen (i.e. Advil) and naproxen (i.e. Aleve). In order for these medications to be most effective, start taking them a day before your period is scheduled to start, and continue taking the medication (as instructed on the bottle) for several days after your period has started., If you feel your pain is severe enough that it is interfering with your ability to function on a daily basis, you may want to ask your doctor about prescription medications.There are several types of prescriptions that can help reduce or eliminate the pain associated with your period, including: birth control pills, progesterone-containing IUDs, prescription-strength anti-inflammatory drugs, prescription-strength pain relievers, antidepressants, and even some antibiotics.
For headaches caused by changing hormone levels before and during your period, your doctor may prescribe triptans. Triptans help block pain signals to your brain and can bring very quick relief when suffering from a severe headache., Even if you do not require birth control for the purpose of actual birth control, the drugs in birth control products can significantly help manage many of the painful side effects of having your period. Some specific things to consider about birth control products are:Hormonal contraceptive include birth control pills, the patch, vaginal ring, and Depo-Provera injections.
Birth control pills normally have 21 pills per month that contain active ingredients and seven pills per month that are placebos. (Some birth control pills don’t actually provide placebo pills, but simply have seven days where you stop taking the pills.) Reducing the number of days you take the placebos may help your symptoms.
An alternative to reducing the number of days you take a placebo pill is to eliminate them altogether. This means you would take 21 days of the active ingredients and then start the next set of 21 pills immediately.
Each type of birth control pill contains different levels of estrogen (as the active ingredient). Decreasing the amount of estrogen by changing the type of birth control you use can help your symptoms as your estrogen levels won’t peak or drop as significantly.
Replace the placebo pills with anti-inflammatory medication, low-dose estrogen pills or an estrogen patch. Again this will help regulate your estrogen levels before and during your period and help relieve your symptoms.
Every woman reacts differently to birth control products. If you find they do not work for you, and you do not need them for birth control purposes, talk to your doctor about stopping them.

