 Gems are the Animal Jam currency and can be collected by doing the daily spin and playing games. Having gems means you can buy better stuff. Non members have a smaller variety than members do but can still get pretty good stuff.;
, A den is basically a home where you can live on AJ. If you have a good den then you have a more homely atmosphere to bring up your family. You can live a friends dens but you may be chucked out. Read: How to Make Your Den Look Like a Home on Animal Jam (Non Members) for some tips on dens

, You may think your child (or you), is to young for one. But on animal jam the children prefer to have a mom or dad. Besides you can always "break up" from them., Jamaa township is the crowed plaza where people like to advertise and want to trade. Most children want members as parents but some of them don't mind. Remember, most jammers who want to be adopted are pretending to be babies. Just consider if you want to do this. They are not actually babies., Click on their name tag and add them. If they don't accept buddy requests or their list is full kindly ask them if they could buddy you.
 When you get there be sure to lock your den. This means only your buddies can enter your den and then your children are safer from people. there can be some strange animals out there lurking in the shadows.
 Give them a tour and give some simple rules. Like: don't go in to Sarepia Forest alone. That is one of the most dangerous places on Animal Jam because of the Clan wars. People mostly get reported or have fights down there. While doing this, be sure to not sound too strict.Then, your baby might think that she/he has no freedom to do things she/he wants in this home.
 Always ask what they want when you adopt them, you can pretend to order food as well.You can also go to the Dinner Party, or even to another Jammer's den if they are hosting a restaurant.
 Give them a quick wash and get them into their pajamas. You can create a nice little shower for your child(ren) using the items below: Toy boat pond (This comes from completing Kani Cove's part of the Journey book) Flat shoji screens (These are found by clicking the menu board above the seating area in the Dinner Party. Rain Cloud (This is found in the Diamond Shop, and costs 3 diamonds) Put the pond down, and arrange the shoji screens around it and put the rain cloud above for the shower head. You can alternate 1 screen out for a beta animal banner as a curtain. You can also pretend to sing or read them to sleep.
 There, you day of adoption is complete. You have a family!

