 Black Friday began as a U.S. market-specific event on the day after Thanksgiving, but in recent years it has become a worldwide phenomenon that spans throughout the week leading up to Black Friday. If you’re looking to score big on Black Friday and Cyber Monday, do your research early and find out what deals stores will be offering on the big day.Amazon offers deals the whole week leading up to Cyber Monday, while some brick-and-mortar and online shops offer Black Friday discounts beginning on Thanksgiving.
 Online shopping has risen steeply and consistently over the past several years, and this trend holds true for post-holiday sales shopping as well. By shopping virtually rather than in-person, you can avoid the long lines and jostling elbows of brick-and-mortar Black Friday frenzies, as well as find special, online offers.Many retailers offer free shipping on post-holiday sales as well, making staying home and waiting a few extra days for your much-anticipated swag even more convenient.
 Once you’ve decided what stores you want to shop on Black Friday or Cyber Monday, be sure to visit their site frequently in order to find out about recently announced promotions. Keep in mind, though, that high demand and the increased popularity of online shopping make these offers extremely time-sensitive, with products often selling out within hours.For example, eBay typically maintains a promotional countdown clock on Black Friday that helps buyers keep track of new and upcoming sales, while Amazon launches new deals every five minutes during Black Friday and the weeks after.
 You might pride yourself on your shopping smarts, but discount-friendly websites, smartphone applications, and browser extensions can boost your retail IQ even higher. Goodshop.com, for example, offers a browser extension that automatically searches and finds active coupons across the web, while the DealNews and Flipp apps keep you abreast of all the latest promotions around you.Flipp can also keep track of your customer loyalty and store-specific credit cards in order to help tailor your shopping preferences and find the most relevant deals for you.
For in-store shopping, download the ShopSavvy app and scan the barcode of any on-sale item you’re considering purchasing. It will check and compare prices for the same item at stores and online outlets around you in order to ensure that you’re getting the best price., Despite the growing popularity and unquestionable convenience of online Black Friday shopping, some people prefer the social aspect and dizzying adrenaline of in-store browsing. Make the most of your day by verifying opening hours and schedules of your favorite brick-and-mortar retailers before venturing out.Some stores offer extended hours on Black Friday, opening at 7 or even 6 a.m., while some stores stay open on Thanksgiving and commence Black Friday deals during the evening.
 Many retailers have remained relevant to tech-savvy teenagers while amping up holiday excitement by using their social media accounts to announce and disseminate their post-holiday sales. No matter which platform you use, get your favorite retailer on your social media feed and stay up on the time-sensitive deals, coupon codes, and promotions.Twitter and Instagram are perhaps the most popular platforms for hip retailers, but you can also join a store’s Facebook group or give it a Like in order to receive updates on your laptop or smartphone.
 Some of the most jaw-dropping post-holiday sales can be tough to resist, but you should be 100% certain about your purchase if you don’t want to get stuck with a poor, impulse-driven decision. This is because many stores change their return policies around the holidays, making it more difficult to return a discounted item for credit or cash. Avoid this pricey pitfall by checking out holiday sale return and exchange policies ahead of time, and asking store employees or customer service reps to clarify any confusing contractual language. Even if your store accepts full-price returns, be sure to keep all the necessary documentation! Tuck your paper receipts in a safe place, and keep a separate folder for emailed order confirmations.
 If you’ve got good credit and know how to handle your money, consider opening a charge account at a store you love. Almost every store will offer 10-15% discounts on your first purchase, as well as points- or dollar-based reward programs to encourage consistent spending and customer loyalty. Just be sure to pay down your balance as quickly as possible, as many store cards carry a relatively high annual percentage rate (APR).Also be sure to check Black Friday-specific policies, as some stores don’t count regular credit card promotions toward or on top of this gargantuan sale.

