 Hearthstone is an online TCG (Trading Card Game) that puts two players against each other on a card duel. This game does not go too far from other TCG games but it has some special rules of its own.;
, In order to win the duel, a player must deplete his opponent’s health (HP) to zero.


You will not lose if you empty your card deck; instead, your HP will deplete slowly on your each turn.
 Both players will have their own hero ability, which they can use by clicking on the hero ability icon at the right side of their hero icon.
 Hearthstone cards are divided into three categories: minions, spells, and weapons. All these cards have their corresponding mana cost, which determines if a player can summon or use a certain card.
 For your minion to attack the opponent, simply click on that minion and direct its attack to its target, may it be to an enemy minion or directly to the enemy hero.


Same thing happens for using damaging spells; just choose the target of the spell and its damage will be dealt to that target.
 The name of your hero is Gul’dan and is obviously fond of demon minions. His strength relies on rapid drawing of cards due to his Life Tap ability. He can really be an annoying opponent especially at the early parts of the game due to his ability that enables him to possibly summon lots of minions at once.


Use Life Tap early in the game to take advantage of the chance to fill the field with minions. Life Tap enables you to draw a card in exchange for 2 HP and 2 mana. Don’t worry about your HP since your opponent will be busy killing off your minions first.
Life Tap drains your HP so know when to consider to stop using it. Maybe when you reach about half of your HP, you can already consider pausing from Life Tapping since it could drain your life faster. Of course this depends on the current state of the board. If you’re in advantage—by all means, continue summoning and attacking your opponent.
 Warlock deck has two major play styles: one is the Zoo and the other one is the Handlock. Both play styles are proven to be effective and legendary Warlock players use these play styles to reach high ranks with Hearthstone.


Zoo deck simply means using minions with small cost as often as you can. In other words, bombard the enemy with enemies! These minions may not be that strong but there is surely strength in quantity. Imagine 3 minions on your side of the board on your first turn. Now that’s board dominance!
Handlock deck is somewhat the opposite of the Zoo deck. This play style truly shines on the later part of the game. Why? Because your key minions in applying this play style costs high. These minions’ costs can be decreased, however, by some factors. Molten Giants for example cost one less mana for each damage your hero has taken.
 As mentioned earlier, Gul’dan’s minions are primarily composed of demons. Focusing on the most popular Warlock deck, which is the Zoo, here are the minions that you should add to your roster:



Voidwalker – This costs just one mana and has taunt. Very good for defending your hero early in the game.

Flame Imp – Another one dropper with a whopping 3 attack and 2 HP. Be warned though, it deals 3 damage to your hero when summoned.

Doomguard – This demon will really hit your opponent hard! It has 5 attacks and 7 HP! It may cost more compared to the other demons and you need to sacrifice two random cards to summon it but it has a charge ability that is proven to be a good finisher for Zoo.
 Non-Warlock minions should also follow a certain qualification. First, it has to be low cost and secondly, it has to have a strong staying power. Meaning, it should at least stay on the board for 2 turns; having buffing ability can be a plus, too.



Argent Squire – Talk about staying power. This one minion has a divine shield when summoned.

Young Priestess – This minion adds one HP to a random friendly minion at the end of each round. That being said, this minion buffs your low cost minions’ HP and that helps in making your minions’ survival rate on the board increase.

Knife Juggler – Its ability to damage a random enemy character when you summon a minion really helps removing weak enemy minions before even declaring an attack. It can also hit the enemy hero directly with its ability; so that surely is useful when confronted with enemy taunts.

Dire Wolf Alpha – This one dropper increases minions’ attack adjacent to it. Really a good buffer.

Harvest Golem – This is a go-to minion if you want a solid staying power capability. This minion automatically summons a 2/1 Damaged Golem after being destroyed.
 For you to pull off the Zoo deck play style, it is important to understand that its key features are minions with small cost. Meaning, spells can be a little less important in this kind of deck. However, removal spells can be proven effective for Zoo as well and there’s a couple that you can add to your arsenal.



Soulfire – This spell damages any character for 4 points and the cost? ZERO. All you need is to sacrifice one card from your hand and you can already activate it. This is best in destroying enemy minions with 4 HP and below

Power Overwhelming – This spell adds 4 to a minion’s attack and HP for just one mana. Imagine playing this with Doomguard as a finisher. Catch is, after that turn, the buffed minion will die. Horribly.
 Unlike other heroes, Warlock deck does not really require legendaries to win. This is so because most of the most powerful legendaries cost a LOT. Some legendaries could actually be considered, granting they’re drawn at the right moment.



The Black Knight – This legendary can instantly destroy a minion with taunt. This will be very useful when your opponent suddenly placed a strong taunt minion in front of you.

King Mukla – This not-so-popular legendary could actually come in handy IF drawn early in the game. It is a 5/5 legendary for just 3 mana! But there’s a catch—after summoning, you’ll give your opponent two bananas (spell cards that increases a minion’s attack and HP by one).

Leeroy Jenkins – Of course, the ever popular 6/2 legendary with charge should fit just fine in a Zoo deck. A good finisher especially when paired with Power Overwhelming.

