 This is the blue and white square with a smiley face in it, which is the far left icon on the default dock. This will open the finder window., Choose “File” from the toolbar at the top of your screen. Click on “New Smart Folder.” This will open another screen which looks very similar to a search screen. This process again, is File>New Smart Folder., Choose the “+” icon on the far right of the top of this folder. This will open another toolbar below the current toolbar in your smart folder window., The first menu will read “Kind.” The second menu will read “Any.” Click the arrows next to “Any” to reveal a drop down menu. from there, select “Image.” Your smart folder will be filled with thumbnails of all of the images which are downloaded to your computer. This step again is Any>Image.
 If you have a lot of images on your computer, you can narrow the search by setting up timelines within the window. Near the center of the very top of your toolbar in the smart folder window, is an icon with a solid line. Under that line is 3 square, another solid line, and another 3 squares. Click the arrows on the side of this icon to reveal the drop down menu. Choose “Date Created.” This will separate your images and order them according to the time they were created on your computer.


Search a more specific timeline using the “Kind” drop down menu. This process is File>New Smart Folder> + >Kind>Created Date>Within Last. From this point, the drop down menu will give you options to choose a specific date, or a range of dates including before and after certain dates, as will as within the week, month or year.
To search around a specific date, select either “exactly,” “before,” or “After” and fill in the date in the box to the right.
This option will give you thumbnails of all of the files created on your computer within the timeline, not just images. You will need to sift through the other files to find the images.
 Once you have found what you are looking for, you can click the “Save” button at the top right of the window near the “+” button. This will open a window where you can title the smart folder as well as choose where to store it.Now you can return to this folder in one click next time you want to find these images.

