 Lay the book open, over your piece of terry cloth and measure 2 inches (50.8 millimeters) around the book. You'll need this extra cloth to properly fasten it to the book. Use a pen or marker to mark lines where you'll have to cut. Use sharp scissors to cut along where you marked.
 When spraying the adhesive, you only have to give the book a single coat. Find a spray that is made specifically for fabrics to hold your terry cloth to your book.


You can purchase adhesive spray at many hardware stores including Home Depot and Lowes.Some popular spray adhesives for fabrics include Spray n Bond Fusible Adhesive, Basting Spray, and Aleene’s Fabric Stiffening and Draping Liquid., Press down after you lay your book onto the cloth. Try to center the book as much as possible so that you'll have enough slack to properly attach the cover to the book. The cloth should stick to the book.
 Cut two slits 2 inches from the top and bottom of your book. Keep your book on your terry cloth when doing this, and do not cut past where your book is or else you'll have cuts on the surface of your cover. Doing this should create two small tabs at the top and bottom of your book, which will be used later to help secure the terry cloth to the book.
 Apply the glue with your hot glue gun, an inch (25.4 millimeters) away from the left and right edge of your terry cloth. These pieces of cloth will fold over and fit inside the front and back cover of your book., Before the hot glue dries, fold the flaps over and press down on top of the terry cloth to attach the cloth to the inside to the back and front cover of your book. The terry cloth should now be wrapped around your book with 2 inches (50.8 millimeters) of slack remaining on the top and bottom of the book.
 Add more glue with your hot glue gun to the top and bottom 2 inches (50.8 millimeters) of slack. Make sure to pay special attention to the outside corners of your cover, because the terry cloth will bunch up there more than anywhere. If your terry cloth is not staying attached, apply more glue using the hot glue gun in those corners.
 Once you've glued your terry cloth to the front and back cover of your book, there should only be the two flaps that are not attached to the book. Use a butter knife or thin object to push the terry cloth into the bindings. Do this on both the bottom and top of the book's spine. Allow the glue to dry before handling your book.,