 Before anything else, rest, breathe, and relax. You most likely just need to get some salty foods into your system so sit down and eat something. Mild symptoms are almost always caused by the fact that you haven’t eaten any salty foods recently. You can also drink electrolyte-rich drinks like Gatorade.



Sodium-rich foods: Table salt, baking soda, soups, powdered broths, soy sauce, salami, bacon, caviar, and cheese.However, if you are having difficulty breathing, call an ambulance.
 Sit down and drink a glass of water. Most symptoms associated by high sodium levels are caused by eating too many salty foods. Drink lots of water until you feel hydrated again. Vomiting can also cause hypernatremia, so treat the reason behind your vomiting and be careful with what you eat.


If you start having convulsions, you should call an ambulance.
 If your potassium shortage is caused by sweating too much or vomiting, drink fluids that will rehydrate you. If you are exercising when you begin to feel symptoms, stop, sit down, and drink some electrolyte-rich drink like Powerade. If you are experiencing cramping, stretch the cramp out. You can also replace potassium by eating potassium-rich foods.



Potassium-rich foods: White beans, spinach, baked potatoes, dried apricots, acorn squash, yogurt, salmon, white mushrooms, and bananas.If you are experiencing severe irregular heartbeats, go to the hospital.
 If you are only experiencing the less severe symptoms, drink lots of water and stop eating foods rich in potassium for a couple of days. However, high potassium levels are almost always caused by a kidney disease. You will need to treat the disease to bring your potassium levels down. Talk to your doctor right away about what you can do to treat your condition.If you have a history of heart diseases and are experiencing irregular heartbeats, call for medical assistance.
 Mild to moderate symptoms can generally be treated by eating foods that have high amounts of calcium. You can also increase your vitamin D, a vitamin that enhances how your body uses calcium, by standing out in the sun for 30 minutes before 8 am. Standing in the sun after 8 am without protection can create its own health problems. You can also take vitamin D supplements. If you are experiencing cramps, stretch the muscle out and massage your muscle.



Calcium-rich foods: milk, yogurt, cheese, broccoli, okra, red kidney beans, chick peas, hazelnuts, salmon, and white rice.If you are experiencing irregular heartbeats and other severe symptoms, call an ambulance.
 If you are just experiencing the mild symptoms, you should drink plenty of water and eat fiber-rich foods to help with any constipation you may be going through. You should avoid eating foods that have high calcium content. Increased levels of calcium are generally caused by hyperparathyroidism, which will need to be treated before you can decrease your calcium levels. Talk to your doctor about options.If your calcium levels are due to immobilization, encourage yourself to move or ask someone to help you get some exercise.
 Because low magnesium levels pretty much only happen to people in the hospital, most hospitals will give you magnesium supplements. If you happen to be experiencing low levels of magnesium outside of the hospital, buy antacids that contain magnesium and take them by following the directions on the box. You can also eat foods with high magnesium contents.Magnesium-rich foods: leafy greens, sesame seeds, brazil nuts, almonds, mackerel, soy beans, quinoa, brown rice, avocados, bananas, and dried figs., The first step is to rehydrate yourself. You should also limit the amount of magnesium-rich foods that you eat. If you are experiencing flushed or warm skin, move yourself to a cool area or hold an ice pack to any areas that are especially hot.

