 There are many mistakes that people make after a relationship is over that can prevent the split from being truly amicable. One of these is a tendency to complain about the other person.


If word gets back to the other person that you've been saying unkind things about him or her, this can be hurtful and ruin any chances of an amicable end to the relationship. You may have feelings you need to vent, but don't do it with anyone who is likely to share your comments with others.
Definitely do not complain about this person to mutual friends.Don't vent on social media, either. If you don't think you'll be able to resist the temptation, just stay off social media for a few days until you are calmer about the situation., If you feel you've been wronged by the other person in the relationship in some way, it can be very tempting after a breakup to seek revenge in some way. It should go without saying that if you want things to be amicable, this is unacceptable.Do not, for example, get romantically involved with a friend of other person as means of getting back at him or her. Do not post embarrassing pictures of him or her on the internet, or go around revealing information that was told to you in confidence.
 Where many breakups turn nasty is when it comes time to divide shared possessions and/or return things that belonged to the other person. This can be especially difficult if you live with the other person. Approach this as calmly as possible, and be fair.


Give back anything that legitimately belongs to the other person.
Try to find a mutually agreeable compromise with shared belongings, asking, for example: "How would you feel if I took X and you take Y?"
If the other person really wants something and it isn't that important to you, it may be worth just letting him or her have it. If it's not worth a fight, consider just letting it go., If the other person still has feelings for you and wants to get back together, do not encourage these feelings in any way, unless you are seriously considering getting back together.


Sending mixed signals may be hard to avoid if you feel conflicted, but do your best. It isn't fair or respectful to the other person to string him or her along if you don't actually want to get back together.Even if you still have lingering feelings for the other person, or still find him or her attractive, you should keep that to yourself. It might make you feel good to say it in the moment, and it may even feel good for the other person to hear it in the short-term. However, this can make it harder for the other person to move on with life, which can lead to resentment and anger after a while.
 Ending a relationship can be scary, for both parties. As a result, it's not uncommon for people to seek out the familiarity of intimate contact with someone they've recently broken up with. This should be avoided.


Making out or having sex with someone you've just broken up with can feel good at the time. In the long run, though, it keeps you both from moving forward and can make the situation more painful and difficult for both of you., Even if you want to remain friends with the other person, expect and accept that you will probably need some time apart before this can happen. Recovering from a breakup is a painful process and it can take a long time.Even if you are happy about the break up, your ex-boyfriend or girlfriend might be heartbroken. He or she will recover, but it will take a while, so try to be patient.


Trying to be friends right away can make it harder for one or both of you to move on with your lives. Wait until you are sure that you and your ex are ready to be friends. This may take a few months or even years.

