 Visit evolvehq.com and sign up for a free account. You'll just need to enter a nickname, enter your email, and create a password.

This free program allows you to create private rooms for you and your friends. You can then use these rooms to launch LAN games as if you were all in the same house. There is no limit to the number of payers you can host in your private room.
 After signing in, click the "Install" button in the upper-right corner. Click the "Install the Evolve Client" button to begin downloading the installer. Run the installer after downloading it, and it will begin downloading other essential files.

Follow the prompts in the installer to install the program.
 Enter your login details after the installation is complete to launch Evolve.

After signing in for the first time, Evolve will download additional files, which may take a few moments.
 This will open a new window., This is required in orcer to create a virtual LAN for you and your friends.

Click "Install" again in the Windows notification that appears.
 After installing the adapter in Windows 10, you'll need to perform some additional steps:Open the Start menu and type "Device Manager" to open the Device Manager.
Expand "Network adapters" and double-click "Evolve Virtual Ethernet Adapter."
Click the "Advanced" tab and select "MAC Address."
Enter 0 as the value and close the window.
Restart Evolve.
 This button looks like a gear, and will open the Party Settings window., This will prevent random users from joining your party. You'll need to send invites to your friends in order for them to join you., Your friends will also need to have Evolve installed and have Evolve accounts. Click the "Send Party Invites" button and then enter the usernames of the friends you want to invite.

You can also open your friends list, then right-click on your friends and select "Invite to Party."

, The process for this varies depending on the game you're playing. You'll do this completely in the game, without using Evolve.

For example, in Minecraft you would start a game, open the Pause menu, and then select "Open to LAN.", Once your game is up and running, Evolve will broadcast the IP address that your friends can connect to in the game. This usually isn't required, as your friends should see your game listed in their available local games. Connecting to the LAN game is done entirely through your game's menus.