 If your dog won't take a whole pill, considering "tricking" him by coating the pill in something tasty. A good choice is peanut butter, which also has the advantage of being sticky. Offer this peanut-butter coated morsel to the dog and hopefully he will chew it and be none the wiser there was a pill inside.Note that this tactic only works if the tablet does not have a bitter center that the dog can taste if he bites through it.
Pushing the pill into a piece of cheese is also a good option. You could also press the pill into his canned food if he eats that.An alternative to peanut butter are "pill pockets", which you can buy from most pet stores.These are soft, squashy treats with a hollow center. You hide the pill in the pill pocket and then give the treat to your dog.
 Some tablets are designed to be given whole. This is because the medicine tastes unpleasant if chewed or the medication is designed to release slowly over time. If you are not sure if the tablet has to be given whole, read the product instructions. In most cases, there will be instructions, such as "Do not crush" or "Give whole." If you're still not sure, contact your vet who should be able to tell you if the tablet can be crushed. If the tablet can be crushed, skip to Step 9.A clue that a tablet should not be crushed or chewed is a shiny "sugar" coating on the outside of the tablet. This outer shell is there to disguise the bad taste. If you crush the pill, it will release the bad taste and the dog is likely to smell that his food has been doctored. Alternatively, he'll eat the food and then have a mouthful of something unpleasant., If you don't want to give the tablet whole and it can be crushed, try this method. Place the pill in a cup or mug and use the back of a metal spoon to grind it into a powder. Add the powdered tablet to the dog's regular meal or special treat (like peanut butter ). It helps to pill your dog when he is hungry so that there's a greater chance of him eating first and asking questions later.You can also buy commercial device called "pill crusher," which acts a bit like a miniature mortar and pestle. You simply put the pill inside the cup part of the crusher, put on the upper lid, which fits into the cup, and screw it down hard until the tablet is pulverized.

