 These methods don’t work for dyeing glass surfaces that are used for eating. However, you can dye the opposite side of serving trays, pitchers and decanters that can be washed by hand.;
, Use a dishwasher if possible, to ensure all dirt and grime is removed. If you are using a thin bottle, you may need to soak the bottle in soapy water before rinsing.


A decanter or bottle cleaning brush will reach into the bottle to remove food or grease residue. They are available online and in kitchen stores.
 You can find glass paint at large craft stores and online.
 It is available in most drug stores. You can also purchase acetone at some craft stores since it is used as paint thinner.
, (4.9 ml) of glass paint with 1/4 tsp. (1.2 ml) of acetone in a small plastic bowl. Mix together with a paintbrush. The acetone is used to thin the paint, so increase the amount of glass paint or paint thinner, depending upon the color you would like to achieve.


Remember that the glass paint will dry lighter than it appears at the start. Increase the paint thinner to dye the glass a subtle shade.
The amount you need is commensurate with the size of the project. Increase the amount of paint and acetone if it is a large project.
If you are dyeing a glass bottle, you can pour the glass paint and acetone directly into the interior of the bottle and mix it by shaking.
 Paint it onto the underside or outside of a bottle or tray if it will be used for serving food. Use a paintbrush to distribute the dye evenly.


Dyeing the outside of the surface can make it slightly tacky to the touch. It is recommended for surfaces that don’t have to be used or washed too often.
Swirl the paint around the interior of the bottle until it covers the entire area. Roll it around on a surface or turn it in the air slowly to coat the surface.
If your paint doesn’t seem to be distributing in an even coat, you have used too much acetone. Add more paint to the interior and mix again.
 Some accumulation will drip down into the bottom, but you want to avoid pools of glass paint.
 Allow the paint to cure for a week before pouring water into it.