 Make sure that the baking rack is in the center of the even. Omelettes are usually fried, but if you have to feed a lot of people, baking them is the best way to go. Not only will you be making multiple servings all at once, but you also won't have to worry about the first batch of omelettes getting cold while you work on the others.
 Select a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) baking dish. A glass or ceramic casserole dish will work the best. Lightly grease the inside of the dish with butter, making sure to cover the bottom and the sides.
 Break open 10 eggs into a bowl and pour in 2 cups (450 milliliters) of milk. Beat everything together with a whisk until the yolks are all broken, and the milk is combined with the eggs.
 Take a few sprigs of flat-leafed parsley and chop it into fine bits. You will need enough chopped parsley to fill ¼ cup (5 grams).
 Using a sharp knife, cut the ham into long, horizontal strips. Then, cut across the strips vertically, making little cubes. You will need enough to fill 1 cup (150 grams).


If the ham is not yet cooked, you will need to warm it up after you have chopped it. Simply scoop the ham into a dish and heat it in the microwave for a few seconds.
 Mix everything together with a whisk. Make sure that all of the ingredients are evenly distributed.


If you do not have, or if you do not like Parmesan cheese, use Cheddar cheese instead and omit the parsley. Use chopped chives for garnish at the very end.
 Hold the bowl over the baking dish and tilt it, allowing the egg mixture to pour into the dish. You can use a spoon or spatula to help ease the mixture out of the bowl and spread it evenly.
 Do not cover the dish or wrap foil over the top. Let the omelette bake in the oven for 45 minutes.
 You can tell if it is finished when the top is golden-brown. If you are still in doubt, stick a knife into the omelette and pull it out. If the knife comes out clean, the omelette is ready. Let the omelette cool for 5 minutes before serving it., Cut the omelette into squares, and use a spatula to transfer each square onto a plate. If you wish to add some color to the omelette, you may chop up one chive and sprinkle the pieces over the top.

