 Once you have met someone you’re interested in, the next step is to take the relationship up a notch. Start with some gentle flirting to get a sense for where your crush is at – if they aren’t interested, no big deal. At least now you know.For some easy flirting, make eye contact, but hold the eye contact a little too long.
Get physically close to your crush – if they don’t back up, they might be into you.
 If you've flirted with your crush, but you're still not sure if they're into you, just ask. Even if they say no, they're bound to be flattered that you're into them. And if they are into you, they'll be thankful that you were brave enough to make the first move.If your crush is into you, it's time to introduce touch. A simple touch can tell you a lot about what your crush is feeling towards you and if you have chemistry together.
If your crush is not into you, don't hold it against them. They can't help who they're attracted to.
 If you feel comfortable that your crush is also gay and also into you, then it’s time to make your move. Ask your crush to get coffee after school, or to hang out at your house and watch a movie. Start slow – you’re still getting to know each other.If your crush turns you down, that’s okay. You may have misread the signs, or maybe they just got scared. Whatever the reason, it’s not the end of the world.
Just because your crush isn’t into you romantically doesn’t mean you have to cut them out of your life. If you were friends before, go back to being friends.
 This is one of the hardest lessons to learn. You’ve gone through so much – you’ve found a fellow gay teen, you flirted and you successfully asked them out. But if it’s not working, don’t stay in the relationship. You’ll soon learn that the world is full of people just like you and one of them may be a better fit.Don’t be scared of being alone – it won’t always be this way. But sometimes, being alone is better than being with the wrong person.
Keep your chin up. Breakups are hard, but listening to music and letting yourself feel your feelings can make them easier.

