 You have writer's block, but that shouldn't stop you thinking of ideas of what aspect of love you want to write about.


Romantic love - frequently love between two individuals with little or no previous knowledge of each other-the most common. Individuals who have known each other for a long time can be romantic too.
Unrequited love (love that isn't returned)
Forbidden love (love that can't be. For reasons of the universe, acceptance, etc.)
Family love (love between family members)
Love between friends (romance between two individuals that had a previous, unromantic relationship).
 Decide whether your main character is male or female. More importantly, start to consider their personality. If it helps, draw out a list of their likes, dislikes, habits, and personality traits. Describe how they feel toward the person they love, and what they would do to keep that person safe, make them happy, etc.
 Add in details, make sure your story line makes good sense, and that it progresses clearly throughout the beginning, middle and end.
 Remember that the plot can always change while you're writing.
 But remember that it's still a work of fiction, and if its too realistic, readers may become bored.
 Hang out with your crush, significant other, friend, and/or family member before writing, and include some of the ways you two interact with each other. Watch romantic movies/shows, or read romantic books to get some ideas. Do not copy and paste, as this is plagiarism and it is illegal in some circumstances, cheating in many situations and immoral in general for anyone to pass someone else's work off as their own.
 When writing with a romantic love theme, use really romantic lines. Reading books and watching movies with the same type of romance you are writing about will help you with creating lines that fit the romantic settings.
 This is to let the readers feel the pain of the character who is not being loved back. Writing in vivid detail about how a broken heart feels can suck a reader in immediately. If you want, make a way for that love to be rewarded in the end.
 A good story often involves conflict. This doesn't always mean that there has to be a villainous character, but your characters shouldn't breeze through the story without some sort of hardship or situation they must overcome.
 Many people often think that it's supposed to be that way. Maybe mix it up where one of the lovers leaves for a while. Even set it up for a sequel!

, Some people just do better letting their creative juices flow. Just think about a good story that'd pull at someone's heartstrings!

