 This depends on the type of meal you are having.;
,, Lay the sauerkraut on several layers of clean paper towels. Wrap the sauerkraut inside the paper towels and squeeze gently over a sink or bowl to get the excess liquid out. Squeeze out as much moisture as possible. If too much excess remains, it can seep into the bread, causing it to turn soft and mushy.
 Spread butter or margarine on one side of one slice to be used in each sandwich. Gently line the slices up butter-side down on a piece of wax paper. The buttered side will need to be on the outside as the sandwich cooks, so when you assemble the sandwiches, the non-buttered side needs to face up. If you do not use wax paper, you may end up losing too much of the butter after you lift the sandwich up.



If you are making a dairy version, layer the cheese, sauerkraut, and dressing. Evenly divide the corned beef and place it on the bottom of the sandwich. Lay one piece of Swiss cheese, sauerkraut, and roughly 2 Tbsp. of prepared Thousand Island dressing.
If you are making a meat version, layer on the corned beef, sauerkraut, and dressing. Evenly divide the corned beef and place it on the bottom of the sandwich. On top of the corned beef, lay the sauerkraut, and roughly 2 Tbsp. of prepared Thousand Island dressing.
 Place one top of the sandwich with the buttered side facing out. As with the first half of the bread, the buttered side must face out in order to come into contact with the hot skillet.
 of butter/margarine in a griddle. Add the butter/margarine and heat over medium until it melts completely. Note that you can also use a shallow frying pan or skillet if you do not have a griddle. By buttering both the sandwich and the griddle, you create more evenly toasted bread with a softer texture and a more buttery flavor.
 Once the cheese begins to melt and the sides along the bottom look golden brown, carefully flip the sandwich over and cook the other side. The other side should also be golden brown before you remove it from the pan.
 Remove the sandwich from the pan and slice in half before serving.

