 In order to avoid bacterial infection, you will need to properly sanitize your working area. It is necessary to have clean knives, cutting boards, bowls and kitchen counters. In addition, you should properly sanitize your hands prior to preparing sushi., Sushi-grade fish should be sourced from the most reputable fishmonger in your city. Pick fillets rather than steaks, since they are easier to slice.To ensure it is good quality fish, you should examine the color, smell and texture of the fish.

If you live in a country without a strong sushi culture, you might consider making sushi without raw fish.Look for fish that is brightly colored.
Avoid fish that has a strong, bad odor.
Avoid slimy fish.
 You will need a freezer that is cold enough to properly store the sushi-grade fish. Check your freezer temperature to see if it meets the requirements. Place an appliance thermometer in your freezer and read the temperature.If your freezer gets down to -20 Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit), you can use it to store your sushi-grade fish., If you are a beginner, you are more likely to have a good experience making sushi rolls. Nigiri sushi is very difficult to make at home. It requires years of practice and professional training. However, sushi rolls can be prepared with the right ingredients and tools, such as a rice cooker, appropriate knives, a rice rolling mat, large and small bowls and a rice paddle. To make sushi rolls, you will need a few key ingredients:Sticky rice or medium-grain, Japanese-style white rice.
Sushi vinegar.
Nori.
Wasabi.
Soy sauce.
Ingredients for your sushi, such as tuna, shitake and asparagus tips.
 Rinse and drain the sticky rice. Put a two-inch piece of kombu seaweed in with your rice in the pot or rice cooker. Cook the rice. Take out the seaweed. Transfer the rice to a large bowl. Add a tablespoon of sushi vinegar to the rice and mix it around with your rice paddle., Cut your fish fillet, such as tuna, into thin strips. They should be eight inches long., Dip your hands into the bowl. Then, clap your hands together to remove excess water., Make sure the shiny side of the nori is facing down. Spread a quarter inch layer of rice over the nori. Add a strip of tuna to the rice. Lift up the bamboo mat and roll it away from you. When you get to the end, press down on the bamboo mat to compress the sushi roll., Start by cutting it in half. Then, cut each half into thirds with your chef’s knife. Place the sushi on a serving tray with soy sauce, wasabi and pickled ginger. Serve the sushi roll right away in order to ensure safe consumption.