 Explain that civility is about treating people with respect. Along with being polite, civility is also listening to others without being rude, even if you don’t agree with them. Civility is also respecting people and treating them properly even if you don’t necessarily get along with them.


You might tell your children that civility is “treating people the way they would want to be treated.” Then, you can discuss scenarios in which civility can be demonstrated. Think, holding doors for others, saying “thank you” after receiving a gift, and showing good sportsmanship after losing a game.;
, It’s not a secret that a majority of children aren’t as polite as they were many years ago. In fact, your child has probably been witness to this. By talking to your children about how civility is disappearing, and how this has had a huge effect on the way the word is, shows just how important it is to treat others with respect.


Give examples of people who treat others with disrespect to show how unattractive the behavior is. Although you will need to base your examples on what is appropriate for your child’s age, you could talk about politicians, celebrities, or even family members who have displayed rude behavior., Being rude to others and treating people with disrespect leads to many things, and most are unpleasant. Explain to your child that not being nice to others not only makes people feel bad about themselves, but can have dangerous consequences, such as being kicked out of school, getting fired from a job, and losing friends. In more extreme circumstances, it can end in violence and even in getting arrested.Give an example, like “If Mary was using the scissors to cut out her hearts, and you snatched them away to cut out yours, how do you think Mary would feel?” Answers may include “mad” or “sad.” Then, you might explain how this could ruin their friendship with Mary.
However, politely asking Mary, “Can I borrow the scissors when you are finished?” shows good manners and patience.
 In order to help your children understand what it means to be civil, instruct them on how to be polite. You can demonstrate politeness by reminding them to use manners like "Excuse me" or "Thank you" in everyday interactions.


Encourage them to practice minding their manners during playtime by sharing with others, waiting until their turn to speak, and holding a door or helping people as needed.Praise your children when you see them being polite to reinforce the behavior.
 Respect is both a personal and social concept. Children must understand that they are owed respect and that they should be respectful of others. Personal respect may be learned by encouraging your kids to maintain a clean and groomed appearance, speaking properly and using polite titles like "ma'am" or "sir," and setting personal boundaries in relationships.


Give them opportunities to show respect for others. This can be achieved by exposing your children to people from all walks of life and pointing out how they all have the same basic needs. Volunteering, learning a new language, and spending time with their elders can help children learn how to respect--and learn from--people who are different from them., Civility is also exemplified in how your children disagree with opinions and beliefs that are different than their own. Many children are quick to say "You're wrong" or "That's dumb" to an opinion that is drastic from theirs. Give your children constructive opportunities to manage differences in opinion and resolve conflict gracefully.For example, your child might be arguing with a friend over their favorite movie. You hear him say, "Why is that your favorite movie? It's silly and the ending doesn't make sense." You might correct him and explain how he can disagree with respect. A better response might be "Wow! Our favorite movies are so different! What about that movie do you like the most?"

, Stop your child in the moment when you see a display of rude behavior. Telling them that how they are acting is rude and disrespectful may help them see the situation from a different point of view, as they may be so involved they aren’t able to see any other perspective but their own. Tell them why what they did was wrong, and how they should have acted, instead.For instance, you visit a family friend’s house and your son runs and dives onto the couch. You might correct him and say, “No, Darren, you do not jump on the furniture. You can break something or destroy Ms. Peterson’s nice pillows. We walk inside and sit down softly…like a gentleman, remember?”

, If your child is a bully, you’ll need to take disciplinary action against them. Explain why bullying is prohibited, and inflict a punishment that is appropriate. If your child is friends with a bully, consider ending their relationship. Allowing them to remain friends gives the impression that you are OK with your child being close to someone who bullies others. The friend may also influence your child to exhibit the same behavior.Additionally, encourage your children to befriend other children who may not be popular or are considered outsiders. Doing so teaches them to be respectful towards everyone, no matter what others may believe about them., Whether you are watching TV, or are in a situation in which others are around, make mention of any rudeness you see and follow through with an appropriate consequence.Explain what will happen if your children demonstrate inappropriate behavior clearly. You might say, "If you do not share your toys, I will take them away" or "If you are cited for bullying at school, you will lose your video game privileges."
Make sure that consequences are understandable and appropriate for your child based on their age. Also, be sure to always follow through on consequences to demonstrate consistency and prevent confusion.
 One of the biggest aspects of civility is showing compassion and empathy towards others. Apologizing when you’ve made a mistake shows that you are humble and can realize when you’ve done something wrong. Along with saying you’re sorry to other adults, make sure you apologize to your children when you’ve done something wrong, as well.


When apologizing to your children, explain to them how you made a mistake and that you are very sorry about it. Then tell them how important it is to apologize when you are in the wrong because it shows that you are empathetic.
Also, tell your children when you apologize to others because of a mistake you’ve made, particularly if they witnessed the mistake. Children learn by example and will be more likely to exhibit the same behavior they witness, both good and bad., Your kids are watching you, and you set the example for them. When you show civility towards others, they will do the same. When you are less than polite and kind to others, they may also model that sort of behavior.


You can’t be perfect all of the time. If you do find yourself acting rude or unkind towards others, explain to your children how that was wrong. Then, apologize to the people you behaved badly to, in front of them., Helping to take care of the house shows an aspect of humility. It teaches children how to serve others and perform selfless acts that may not directly benefit them, but benefits others. Chores also teach children discipline, which is important in learning civility.You’ll need to find age-appropriate chores for your children to complete. For instance, toddlers can dust, feed the pets, and help pile books and magazine. Older children can load and unload the dishwasher, make their beds, and help fold laundry. Avoid being too critical with the chores and make sure to give plenty of praise for what they’ve done., Saying “please” and “thank you” goes a long way. Teach your children to have good manners, and display them yourself, as well. Opening the door for others, asking “may I?,” and calling people “sir” and “ma’am” teach children to have respect for others.