 You can find budget making worksheets online, or start by simply making notes on all of your income sources and expenses., Start your budget plan by making a list of all of your income sources, and the amount provided by each source each month.


Your income can include a number of sources such as wages, tips, interest earned from investments, or any combination of these.
If your income varies, gather your pay stubs or income reports from the last three and four months, and average the monthly income amount for an estimate.
 Make a list of your recurring, fixed expenses (those which are the same each month). Your required monthly expenses may include:


Mortgage or rent
Vehicle loans or car payments
Car, homeowners, or renters insurance
Electric and/or gas
Phone, cable, and internet
Any amount you set aside each month in a savings account or similar account.
 Besides your monthly bills, you pay for other things each week to maintain your lifestyle. These expenses are normally discretionary and can vary over time; using past receipts if possible, make the best estimate you can of the per-month amount of these expenses. Additional living expenses include things like:


Groceries, lunches, and dining out
Laundry and dry cleaning
Gas, tobacco, alcohol, and hobbies
Pet food, veterinary and grooming bills, and other pet care expenses
Cleaners, light bulbs, and other miscellaneous household items
Clothing
Educational expenses, such as book fees, tuition, and supplies
Magazines, movie subscriptions, newspapers, event tickets, video games, and other entertainment

, If the sum is positive, you have a surplus that can be used as disposable income, saved, or put toward paying off your debt. If the sum is negative, then you will need to either reduce your expenses or raise your income so that you can begin paying off your debt.
 If your budget is negative, use the list of your expenses to prioritize which ones you can reduce or eliminate. For instance, if you pay a monthly bill for a landline phone, but have a cell phone, you might find the landline phone unnecessary and eliminate it. Likewise, you might want to set your mortgage or rent as a high-priority expense, and entertainment as a low-priority expense.
 Credit counselors are professionals trained in assisting people struggling with debt, or even those who simply want to make good financial choices. A credit counselor can advise you on setting a budget, managing your money, and strategies to reduce your debt.You can find credit counselors at credit unions, extension offices, religious organizations, and nonprofit agencies in your area.
Look for a credit counselor that is affiliated with either the National Foundation for Credit Counseling (NFCC) or the Financial Counseling Association of America (FCAA)., This can make it easier to make payments, and sometimes offers fee or interest rate reductions.


You should speak with a credit counselor about debt consolidation if you are interested.
Some debt consolidation programs function through a home equity line of credit or a home equity loan. In each of these cases, funds to manage your debt through consolidated payments are received by borrowing against the value of your home. In this case, you must be able to make the payments, or risk losing your home. Talk with a credit counselor about whether or not this is a good option for you.
 DMP services can help you pay off your debt by dealing with your creditors and making your payments so that you don’t have to. This can take some of the headache out of managing your debt. You may also get a reduction in interest rates or have fees waived by your creditors if you use a DMP service. However:


Some DMP services will charge fees, even if they are nonprofit corporations.Be wary of DMP services that try to push you into signing up for services that you don’t think you need, or that won’t share information about their services.Always check your bills if you use a DMP service to make sure it is making payments as scheduled.
 Debt management plan services and credit counselors can be helpful when trying to pay off what you owe. However, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has investigated DMP services that provide fraudulent information, exploit consumers and engage in other unacceptable practices. Many of these disreputable DMP services have been shut down. However, you should still seek to protect yourself by doing research to make sure that a DMP service you are considering is reputable. Ask questions such as:What services does it offer?
Is the service licensed in your state?
Does it provide free information? If a DMP service asks you to pay a fee before getting more information about it, avoid that service and look for another.
Does the service offer a written agreement or contract?
How are the credit counselors qualified? What experience do they have?
What are the initial and/or recurring fees for using the service?
Is the company non-profit?
How are the company’s employees paid? Do they work for commissions based on the services they sell me?
What is the company’s privacy policy?

, Ask them if you can work out a modified payment schedule; many creditors are willing to work with you if you contact them. Some have in-house hardship plans for lower interest rates or structured monthly payments.Be honest about what you can pay.If you promise to pay more than you actually can, you will not eliminate your debt, and can make your credit situation worse. Only agree to pay what you actually can.
Tell your creditors that you are working on a debt management plan.
Let your creditors know if you are using a DMP service, as they might offer you reductions in interest rates or fees.
Don’t wait until your creditors turn management of your accounts over to a collection agency. Creditors are much more likely to work with you if you let them know promptly about any trouble you are having making payments.
 If you owe on multiple accounts (such as several credit cards), you will have to decide how to allocate your payments to reduce the debt.Some financial advisors suggest paying off accounts based on their interest rate, from high to low. For instance, if you owe on multiple credit cards, pay as much as you can on the card with the highest interest, and pay the minimum amount on other cards. Higher interest cards cost you more in fees, so paying in this way will put more of your money toward paying down your balance instead of interest charges.
Other advisors suggest paying your accounts off based on their balance, from low to high. For instance, if you have multiple credit cards, pay as much as you can on the card with the lowest balance, and pay the minimum on other cards. That way, you will pay off individual accounts faster, which can be emotionally satisfying.
 Creditors are often more willing to work with you if you have a good payment record.
 Your creditors might require automatic payments as part of your negotiated debt repayment terms. Even if they are not required, however, they can make repaying your debt easier because you will not have to worry about missing a payment.
 Even if they do not, it is a good idea not to take on new debt while you are attempting to pay of current debt.
 Even if you are using a debt management service, you should still double check financial statements to receive to verify that the service is making the payments as scheduled.
 If you negotiated your repayment terms, make sure each creditor certifies your account with a “paid in full” or “debt satisfied” status and notifies the various credit reporting agencies once you repay everything that is owed.This is because your debt amount may have changed, and you will want to certify that everything has now been paid as required, and nothing more is owed.
 This way, you can make sure that the plan is still effective, and decide if you need to make any changes to it to better manage your debt.


At regular intervals, such as every three months, review your budget, adjusting it for any changes that have occurred. You may find that you have eliminated certain expenses, and have more funds that can be used to pay off debt, or that you want to change your expense priorities, or that you need to reduce your expenses further, etc.
If you are using a DMP or credit counseling service, ask your advisor to review your finances with you, and explain any changes to your debt management plan that might be beneficial.

