 This odd shoelace knot looks a little like a tiny noose, making it great for adding some creepy flavor to your outfit for Halloween and other spooky occasions. To start, all you need to do is make a very basic starting knot (the same kind you'd start with when tying your shoes normally.)As a reminder, to make this basic knot, take your right lace and cross it over the left lace. Wrap it under the left lace once and pull tight. Note that this part is exactly the same step as in the section above.
 Next, take the right lace and double about an inch or two of the lace back on itself to make a "loop" or U-shaped section. Just like in a real noose, this loop will eventually become the "neck hole."


Once you make the loop, take the loop and the other lace in your hand and hold both so that they are pointing upward. This isn't essential, but it ensures that all of your laces are positioned correctly for the next step and keeps things a little tidier as you start to make the noose.
 Starting at about the middle point of the loop, start wrapping the free section of lace around both parts of the loop and the other lace. In other words, you should be wrapping the lace around a "bundle" of three laces : both sides of the loop and the free lace. Work your way down towards the bottom of the loop, coiling tightly as you go.


There's no exact number of coils you need to make this way — longer laces will be able to make more coils than shorter ones, but as long as you are able to make about four or five, your knot should hold.
 When you've coiled the free lace all the way to the bottom of the loop, take whatever slack is left and pass it through the small hole between the initial "right over left" knot and the lace that you've been using to coil. This hole should be near the bottom of the coil you just made, but slightly off to the side. When you've done this, pull the lace gently to tighten.


If your lace isn't long enough to reach the bottom of the loop, try starting over and making the initial loop smaller.
 When you're ready to untie this mini noose knot, slip your finger into the loop and pull up. The "loose" side of the noose should pull through the coil easily and the entire knot should fall apart.


On the other hand, pulling the "tight" side of the noose should cause the coil to tighten. You may want to give this side a tug after you put on your shoes to keep your knot tight during your daily activity.

