 We all feel impatient and can get stressed out and anxious waiting for something to happen. The first step to learning to wait patiently is understanding when impatience has arisen, and where that feeling is coming from. Although you may be waiting for something to arrive, or happen, it is your response to that situation that results in the stress of waiting.


For example, if you were stuck in a traffic jam you would probably get annoyed at the situation or maybe the other cars for holding you up.
It is, however, your response to this situation which determines whether you wait patiently or impatiently.
People often get impatient when they perceive the environment as not conforming to their expectations.
Recognising that expectations are only expectations and are often not totally realistic can help you to identify impatience., Waiting can be frustrating because you feel you have lost control over something. The fact is that you cannot control your environment and there will inevitably be times when you have to wait for extended periods. Accepting this can help you to feel more free and calm.


Acknowledging that you cannot clear an accident that has caused a traffic jam is much better than getting annoyed and frustrated about something you have no influence on., Often anxiety about waiting is connected to the feeling that the wait will be followed by bad news or a negative outcome, which can make it harder to wait patiently. Research suggests that those people who have a more positive outlook, and are generally more optimistic about the outcome of what they are waiting for, will find waiting patiently easier.


Try to foster a more optimistic outlook, and learn to feel more comfortable with uncertainty.
If you are anticipating bad news, try to find a positive in it in advance. This could be preparing for failure and thinking of an alternative way forward.
For example, if you are waiting for an exam result, thinking positively about what you could do if you don’t get the grades can help you wait more patiently., If you’re stuck with a long wait, and have accepted that there is nothing you can really do about it, practicing some relaxation techniques might help you to avoid becoming stressed and impatient. A simple relaxation technique that you can do anywhere and at any time is deep breathing.


Take deep deliberate breaths, inhaling for three or four seconds.
Fill your lungs and hold the air in for a few seconds before slowly breathing out for another three or four seconds.
You could also combine your deep breathing with a mantra, such as “I am breathing out stress, and breathing in relaxation.”, Becoming impatient about something in your life is entirely normal and happens to all of us all. You will feel the stress of impatience in both your mind and body. Try to recognise that if you become particularly anxious and upset when you are waiting for something, this impatience is a stress response to the situation. Learning to be more patience is a way of being more compassionate to yourself.


By being patient and limiting the stress response you are actively taking care of yourself.
You will suffer when impatient, so learning to be more relaxed will help you feel better about yourself and the situation.Learning to be patient will also help you feel more compassion towards others who get frustrated when things don’t conform to their expectations.