 Anxiety is one of the most common causes of sleep talking, so reducing your stress levels during the day might be enough to put a stop to your late-night monologues.There are multiple ways to reduce stress in your daily waking life. Removing causes of stress often helps, but when that isn't possible, learn practices to help relax your mind and body. Meditation, yoga, and regular massages are a few such options.;
, Moderate physical activity can help regulate your mind and body. Try walking at a brisk pace for 15 to 20 minutes each day. Schedule these walks for the morning, late afternoon, or early evening.


Avoid exercising shortly before bed, however. Cardiovascular exercise, in particular, stimulates your circulation and may make you feel more awake for a brief period of time. For that reason, you should exercise no later than one to two hours before your intended bedtime.
 Spend more of your waking hours in natural, indirect sunlight. Try to soak in at least six to eight hours of daylight on a daily basis.


By getting more sunlight during the day, you can help your brain associate “light” with “wakefulness” and “dark” with “sleep.” After several weeks of increased daylight, you may notice yourself feeling more awake during the day and more tired when it's time to sleep. This could lead to deeper, more relaxed sleep, which typically involves less sleep talking.
 If you're in the habit of eating shortly before going to bed, reduce the amount of food you eat or change your routine altogether. You may need to stop eating as early as four hours before your intended bedtime.If you are unable to completely stop eating before bed, you should at least reduce the amount of food you eat. Heavy meals are more likely to cause problems than light snacks. Adjust your eating schedule as needed to accommodate this difference and determine whether or not it has enough of an impact.
 Both alcohol and caffeine can disrupt normal, healthy sleep, so you should avoid drinking either substance during the evening. More specifically, your last sip of caffeinated coffee and soda should be in the late afternoon, and your last sip of alcohol should be with dinner.


You may also need to cut back on other potential stimulants, like sugary foods and drinks. Any substance that could alter the way your body regulates sleep might worsen the problem, even if it isn't directly to blame. This includes substances that make you feel more awake (caffeine and sugar) as well as those that make you feel drowsier (alcohol).
 Do something that relaxes you immediately before you lie down. Even if you aren't consciously aware of your stress, there's still some possibility that your body is retaining enough stress to make normal sleeping habits impossible.


Take a warm bubble bath or listen to soothing music. Read a relaxing book. Spend time meditating, praying, or cuddling with a loved one. Nearly any activity that causes you immediate relaxation can be a good option.
 Sleeping is the only thing you should do in your bed. In other words, you should not be lying in bed while reading, watching television, surfing the Internet, or listening to music.By using your bed for nothing but sleep, you effectively train your brain and body to associate your bed with sleep. That makes it easier for you to fall asleep quickly once you lie down, and sleeping faster can lead to deeper, more restful sleep.
On a similar note, it also helps to sleep in the same spot on the same bed each night. You may talk more in your sleep if you begin to rest in different locations because your brain will be more "awake" and alert in these new spots.
 Creating a comfortable sleeping environment can make it easier for your brain to relax, which, in turn, can put an end to sleep talking.


As a general rule, you should keep your bedroom as quiet and dark as possible to help facilitate better sleep. If you live in a naturally noisy place, like a dorm room, use a white noise machine to drown out some of the more inconsistent environmental sounds. If you need some form of light, use a small LED night light instead of a bright lamp.
Make your bed as comfortable as possible, too. Change the mattress if it's worn out or if it leaves you feeling sore in the morning. Swap out old pillows for new ones that support your neck and head better. If your sheets make you itch, look for softer sheets or check for an allergy to certain fibers.
 Most adults need seven to eight hours of sleep each night. If you aren't getting enough sleep, your mind and body might find it difficult to regulate your body's ability to sleep deeply, which may result in sleep talking and other problems.


Ongoing sleep deprivation can also put added stress on your mind and body, and that stress may mean that your brain requires longer, more frequent periods of deep sleep to recover. For that reason, don't expect your sleep talking to vanish after one full night's rest. It could take several days or weeks for your brain to settle into a healthier state.
 Go to bed at the same time each night and wake up at the same time each morning. Keep the same hours each day—even on the weekends—and avoid staying up late or sleeping in.


Your body operates on various patterns, and maintaining those patterns can help regulate its various chemical, hormonal, and physical cycles. The time you go to bed, the time you wake up, and the amount of sleep you get all form the key structure of your sleep pattern. By sticking to a single sleep pattern, you allow your body to more adequately regulate the way it functions during sleep.
 If your sleep talking keeps someone else awake, ask that individual to help you stop by speaking in soothing, comforting tones during an episode.Monitor the results closely. If engaging you while you talk in your sleep soothes you, you'll likely sink into a deeper sleep and the talking should stop. On the other hand, it's also possible that engaging you will cause your mind to remain more wakeful and alert, which could aggravate your sleep talking and make it last longer.
 Since most people aren't aware of their own sleep talking habits, you'll need to talk to the people who have heard you talking in your sleep. Ask them to think about how long the problem has been going on.


If the problem is recent, it most likely has a recent cause. Identifying and eliminating that cause will usually put an end to the sleep talking.
Long-term sleep talking is usually harder to get rid of since the cause will be harder to identify. If your current partner or roommate cannot recall a time when you did not sleep talk, ask the people who used to live with you—past roommates, siblings, parents, and so on—if you used to talk in your sleep while you lived with them. More accurately pinning down the start of your problem can lead to a more accurate analysis of what caused it and how to stop it.
 Make a list of the prescription and non-prescription medications you take on a regular basis. Research each one and determine if any of them have been linked to sleep talking or other sleep problems.


Don't stop taking any prescription medication without first consulting your doctor about it, even if you believe that medicine is responsible for your sleep talking.
Even if a certain medication isn't typically linked to sleep talking, you should still mention it to your doctor if your bouts of sleep talking began around the same time you started the medication. There is still some chance that the medication could be connected to the problem somehow.
If you're taking recreational drugs, whether legal or illegal, you should also note that they could be involved in the problem, too.
 Sleep talking is often a sign of physical and mental illness. Ask yourself if there are currently any underlying health issues you may need to address. Taking care of those may also end your sleep talking episodes.


Even short-term health difficulties can trigger episodes of sleep talking. For instance, you might start talking in your sleep if you have a high fever. The sleep talking usually disappears with the fever in these instances, but if other factors were also involved, it may continue even after the fever breaks.
Mental health disorders, including depression and anxiety disorders, can cause sleep talking, too. This is especially true if you have a mental health disorder that hasn't been diagnosed or treated. Once treatment begins, you may notice a decline in the number of sleep talking episodes you experience.
 When you visit your doctor, be prepared with a complete record of your personal medical history. Be as thorough and honest as possible.


Your doctor may also ask you questions about your family medical history. Sleep disorders often run in family lines, and if you have a close relative with a diagnosed sleep disorder, you might be at a higher risk of experiencing that disorder, too.
 Immediately before or after your initial appointment, start keeping a sleep journal to monitor your sleeping habits. After two weeks, review this journal with your doctor to determine if certain patterns might be the cause of your sleep talking.Record the times you go to bed, when you think you fell asleep, and when you woke up.
You should also record notes about your daily habits and routines. Make a list of the medications you take and when you take them. Note when you exercise and for how long. Write down what you drink each day and when you drink it.
 On occasion, sleep talking could be a symptom of a more serious sleep disorder, or another sleep disorder might be mistaken for standard sleep talking. Watch for other signs related to sleep disorders to determine if you may have a more severe problem.


REM Sleep Behavior Disorder (RBD) is one common cause. If you physically act out your dreams while talking, or if you shout and become violent in your sleep, RBD could be to blame.Night terrors can also be linked to sleep talking. The talking one does while experiencing night terrors will usually be notably extreme, and may involved screaming or thrashing around.
People with catathrenia (also known as "nocturnal groaning") don't often speak in audible words during sleep. Instead, they typically make long, loud groaning sounds.
 A sleep specialist might use a sleep study or polysomnogram to monitor your mind and body as you sleep. This test may allow the doctor to diagnose sleep disorders responsible for your problem.


Under most circumstances, a sleep specialist will use a diagnostic overnight polysomnogram to diagnose problems related to sleep talking. During the test, special equipment will be used to monitor your breathing patterns, blood oxygen levels, heart rhythms, and limb movements. Your overall quality of sleep will be monitored, as well.After the test, the sleep specialist assigned to your case will study the recorded results and look for patterns that could be indicative of an underlying sleep disorder. Once a diagnosis is made, an appropriate course of treatment can be devised.

