 In general, cats with FIV do not need a special diet. However, because not all FIV cats are alike, there is no ‘one size fits all’ diet for FIV cats. Because your FIV cat may have specific dietary needs, talk with your vet before selecting a diet for your cat.For example, if your cat has another health condition, such as chronic kidney disease, it may have special dietary needs.


A cat with chronic kidney disease would need a low-protein diet.Ask your vet questions about what your FIV cat's diet should be: Does my cat need a prescription diet? Are there any specific nutrients that my cat needs? Can I feed my cat treats? What if my cat doesn't like the food?
Your vet will recommend a diet based on your cat’s overall health.;
, An FIV cat needs a nutritionally complete (contains all required nutrients) and balanced diet. Protein is one of the most important nutrients in a cat's diet. Cats are obligate carnivores, meaning they need animal-based proteins (chicken, beef) in their diets.Animal-based proteins contain amino acids (building blocks of protein) needed for healthy growth.Taurine is a very important amino acid for cats. It is found in animal-based proteins and is essential for a cat's health. A taurine deficiency can lead to problems with vision, heart muscle function, and digestion.Other than protein, cats also need carbohydrates, fat, vitamins, and minerals in their diets., Many commercial diets are available that would provide your cat with proper nutrition. These diets come in several forms, including dry and canned. Dry foods are typically inexpensive, but may not be very tasty or digestible. Canned foods are tasty, but may not be nutritionally complete.Dry food usually contains plant-based proteins (grains, vegetables). These proteins do not give cats enough of the amino acids they need for proper health.Semi-moist cat food is another option. However, semi-moist food tends to be high in carbohydrates and aren't very nutritious. Also, additives or dyes in the food can cause allergic reactions in cats.On the food label, look for a certification from the Association of American Feed Control officials. This certification ensures the food meets minimum nutrient requirements.Ask your vet for recommendations on which commercial diets would be best for your FIV cat.
 Other than commercial diets, you could make a homemade diet for your cat. A homemade diet must be nutritionally balanced to satisfy your cat’s dietary needs.Be aware that homemade diets can be very time consuming to put together. If you do not have a lot of time, a commercial diet would likely be the better option.


If you decide to make a homemade diet, do not add uncooked foods to that diet. FIV cats have weakened immune systems, making them very vulnerable to food-borne infections from parasites or bacteria. Uncooked foods like raw meat or eggs could make your cat very sick.To make a homemade diet for your cat, use an animal-based protein source (cooked chicken, turkey, beef), carbohydrate (rice, boiled or mashed potatoes, whole oats), and vitamin and mineral supplements.The portion size you feed your cat will depend on several factors, such as age, activity level, and overall health.
Talk with a veterinary nutritionist before starting your cat on a homemade diet. The nutritionist would create a diet for your cat and give you recommendations on how to prepare the food.
 Supplements of vitamin C and vitamin E can help keep your FIV cat healthy.In particular, a vitamin E supplement can help strengthen your cat’s immune system.Ask your vet for recommendations on high-quality vitamin supplements for your cat.


Follow the product label instructions when feeding the supplements to your cat.
 Cats with FIV tend to have intestinal problems and poor appetites. If your FIV cat does not feel like eating, you will need to encourage it to eat. At mealtime, add a tasty topping (chicken or beef broth) to the food. You could also add a bit of tuna to the food.These extra toppings may add just enough extra flavor to entice your cat to eat.


Look for the broth in your grocery store’s soup aisle.
Contact your vet if you are not able to encourage your cat to eat. Your vet may prescribe a medication to stimulate your cat’s appetite.
 The saliva from an FIV-positive cat can contain the disease-causing virus. Therefore, if you have multiple cats, consider feeding your FIV cat with a separate bowl.Minimizing the risk of the virus spreading will be important for your healthy cats.


Fortunately, it is unlikely that your healthy cats will get FIV simply by sharing a food bowl with your FIV cat.If you would like to feed all of your cats from the same bowl, talk with your vet before doing so.
Clean the separate food bowl just as you would clean the other food bowls.
 Your cat’s dietary needs may change as the FIV progresses and your cat’s immune system gets weaker. Your vet can recommend dietary changes to keep your cat as healthy as possible, despite the effects of the disease.FIV can have negative effect on oral health in cats.If your FIV cat's dental health starts to suffer, your vet may recommend feeding your cat a dental diet.