 Make it something creative, yet sophisticated if possible.
 There are quite a few free web hosting places, so you can just use one of those if you don't want to pay a fee. However, now that you're a business, it is not the time to be quibbling over small amounts spent on advertising to bring in more customers. A quality website will make a good impression, something that will set you apart from breeders who can't be bothered spending time with online awareness––people expect to find all the information they're looking for in an easy-to-read and professional website, so give them what they're looking for.


Keep all of your prizes and important information right there where customers can see the accolades and information! Don't hide behind modesty––customers want to know your horses are prize winners.
 You should be setting aside some of your budget to advertise your existence, your specialization and your availability as a horse breeder/boarder/trainer. Use Google ads and Facebook ads for online reach. Advertise in relevant horse interest and horse association/club magazines. Ensure that there is a decent sign advertising your business at the front gate. And use every media opportunity in the local press that comes your way!


If you like writing and photography, and have the time, maintaining a blog about your horse farm, along with horse breeding advice, can be an excellent form of outreach that will gain interested followers who might just turn into customers now and then!

, Breeding horses is hard work but it's rewarding, especially if your life is dedicated to horses. You will find yourself emotionally attached to the horses, to what happens to them and to the business as a whole. Most of all, provided you run a tight budget and keep within your means, you will hopefully find it is a healthy and financially rewarding business as well. You might not make millions but if you're doing what you love and making ends meet plus a little more, then it can be a good earner and as your expertise grows, you can use this expertise to teach, write, advise, etc. as well as breeding the horses.

