 Either purchase a covered, microwave-safe container exclusively for this specific purpose, or use one that you do not plan on using for food ever again. Make sure that it is large enough to hold your flower(s).Trim your stems if necessary so that they fit in the container.


This method is better suited for drying flowers individually. It also preserves color and shape very well, so if you would like to keep your rose, tulip, or chrysanthemum looking more or less as is, this method is perfect.
 Coat the bottom of the container with silica gel. Pour enough to create a bed that is an inch or two thick. For larger flower heads, pour more as needed. Set the flower in the gel with the blossoms facing up. Gently coat the flower itself with more gel. Don’t pour too much at once, since this may damage the petals., Leaving the container uncovered, set your flower in the microwave. Run your microwave for two to five minutes at a low heat level. Open the door and check how moist the flower is. Continue to cook the flower at short intervals and inspect the flower in between until it has dried.The type of microwave and the type of flower will effect how long this will take. For each new type of flower you attempt to dry in the microwave, set aside one as a crash-test dummy to experiment with time and heat levels before nuking the rest.
If you are nervous about over-drying your flower at first, set a small bowl or cup of water in the microwave while cooking the flower to slow down the rate of drying., Once the microwave has dried your flower, seal the container with its cover. Set the container in an out-of-the way place. Unseal the container, but keep it covered. Gently edge the cover along the container’s top to create a gap that is only a quarter of a centimeter wide. Leave it just like that for the next 24 hours., After the flower has sat overnight in the silica gel, remove the flower from the container. Use a fine brush to wipe the gel off. Once the gel has been removed, spray the flower with an acrylic spray.