 Progressive muscle relaxation works by focusing on tensing and then relaxing various muscle groups. In clinical studies, it's shown to be effective for some in alleviating back pain.Learn the different muscle groups, and how to tense and relax them, before engaging in PMR.


To tense and relax your lower body, focus first one foot, then your foot and calf, and then your entire leg. Begin by curling your toes, then pulling your toes towards you to tighten your calf, and then finally squeezing your thigh muscle.Then, you'll focus on your sides, tightening your left and right sides one at a time. Tighten your hand by clenching your fist and then tightening your biceps by bringing your forearm towards your shoulder.You should move then to the buttocks, stomach, chest, neck, and shoulders. You pull your buttocks together to tighten it, you suck your stomach in, and tighten your chest by taking a deep breath.Then, tighten the muscles on your face. Open your mouth wide, clench your eyelids shut tight, and raise your eyebrows as far as they can go.;
, Once you've familiarized yourself with how to tighten various muscle groups, prepare to engage in PMR. Find a quiet, comfortable place to sit that's free from outside distractions. Sit with your eyes closed. Remove your shoes and wear loose, comfortable clothing., The first thing you do when engaging in PMR is choose one muscle group to focus on. Tense these muscles as discussed earlier. For example, start with your lower body on the left side. Curl your toes toes on your left foot, then your tighten your calf, and then tense your entire left leg.


Hold the tension for about 5 seconds. It's important to squeeze hard and really feel the tension building. This may cause some discomfort or shaking.If you start to feel intense, shooting pain stop tensing your muscles and relax. While some discomfort is normal, you could end up hurting yourself if you feel pain and this may worsen back pain., Release all the tightness in the tensed muscle group. Notice the difference between tension and relaxation. Exhale and allow the muscles to become loose and limp. Focus on relaxing for 15 seconds before moving on to the next muscle group., Repeat the process with all other muscle groups. Continue to practice PMR twice a day until you get used to it. After that, you can practice it once a day or even only 3 or 4 times a week.