 Common places to look are in your driver's manual which comes with the car. You can ask your car care professional. There should also be a Vehicle Information button on your dashboard with a picture of a car, marked with the letter "I". If your car has a VIC, use the following steps.
 Sit down comfortably in the driver's seat, and make sure that all of the doors are closed. Tug on each of the handles from inside to make sure they are all closed tight. Make sure that your transmitter is close to the steering wheel and lock buttons.
 Put your key in the ignition and turn it all the way clockwise until you hear the engine come on. Make sure that the gear shift is set to park.
 If for some reason the display does not appear, restart your car, and repeat the previous steps. If the display still does not appear, contact your nearest GM car care professional., The Set/Reset button should be near the Vehicle Information button. If you cycle past the option, continue pressing the Set/Reset button until the "Remote Key Learning Active" option reappears., Do this for at least fifteen seconds. You should hear a noise that sounds like a chime. This means that your transmitter has been successfully synced. If that does not happen, it is likely the sync is off, in which case you will have to restart the process.
 Do this in rapid succession. If you wait too long, it is likely that your car will go out of sync, and you will have to restart the process for whichever transmitters you have left over.
 It is important that you do this, otherwise the lock/unlock features in your car will not properly work. This can result in dangerous circumstances where your locks do not work. If you forget, or take too long to take your key out, start the whole process over again for your own safety and convenience., Get out of your car and close the driver's door. Step away from the car about 20 feet. Press the unlock/lock buttons separately. If they work from this distance, step back to a further distance and try your transmitter from there. If you are noticing that your transmitter is not locking and/or unlocking, start the process over again to ensure that it works. If you have repeated the process numerous times with no success, contact your car care professional for further instruction/help.


If the transmitter works at 20 feet but does not work at, say, 40 feet, the transmitter may not have a strong enough signal to travel that far, or that the transmitter's batteries are low.

