 You can find the name of the bank by looking at the front of the cheque. Most banks are required to cash cheques that are drawn on accounts at their bank (if there are sufficient funds in that account).The bank may also charge you a fee if you're not an account holder with them.You must cash the cheque in person with a bank teller if you are not an account holder.
Be aware that if the account the cheque is written on does not have sufficient funds to cover the cheque, the bank is not required to cash it.Some states in the U.S. have laws that require banks to cash cheques drawn on their accounts without charging a fee. You can find out online if you live in a state where this applies., Some grocery stores and a number of large retailers will cash certain kinds of cheques that they believe are reliable. For instance, they will cash payroll cheques or government cheques but not personal cheques (cheques written by individuals drawn from their personal accounts). Merchants often charge small fees for cashing a cheque for you.For example, many 7-Eleven convenience stores will cash cheques for a small fee (which varies by location).As another example, Walmart will cash cheques of up to $5,000USD, for which they will charge a fee of $6. They will only cash payroll, government, and tax cheques., Many financial institutions now offer prepaid cards to people without bank accounts. If you have a prepaid card, you will usually be able to deposit cheques at select ATMs. You may be charged a fee to deposit and withdraw funds, depending on the card.For example, Visa has a reloadable “Payroll Card” that you can get through your employer. You can deposit cheques and withdraw money at any ATM that accepts Visa debit cards.Many large banks also offer prepaid debit cards. Chase offers a prepaid card that allows you to deposit a cheque at any Chase ATM. The card has a monthly fee of $4.95.Prepaid cards are usually available through large financial institutions such as MasterCard and American Express.
 There are many cheque-cashing stores and services that will cash cheques for a percentage of the amount. These should usually be reserved as a last resort, as their fees tend to be quite high.The advantage of cheque-cashing services is that they will usually cash personal cheques. Most retailers will not. However, these services may charge a hefty fee to cash your cheque, so it’s best to try your other options first.If you do not have a bank account and need cash immediately from a personal cheque, cheque-cashing services may be your only option.
 If you do not have a bank account and have someone you absolutely trust, you can make over the cheque to them. They can then cash the cheque with their bank and give you the money.


To endorse the cheque to another person, write “Pay to the order of _______” on the reverse side of the cheque. Sign your name. In some cases, you may also be required to initial near the written and numerical amounts of the cheque.

Never ask someone you do not know intimately to cash a cheque for you. Never cash a cheque for someone you do not know and trust extremely well.

