 You can use any of the four PSAM (Program, Shutter-priority, Aperture-priority, Manual) modes, detailed below. Whichever mode you choose, don't use the "sports" mode (present on some cheaper cameras); this will lock out some critical controls like ISO and white balance.



Shutter priority (S on Nikon, Tv on Canon): This will allow you to set your shutter speed and the camera will choose an appropriate aperture to get a correct exposure.

Aperture priority (A on Nikon, Av on Canon): If you're shooting under fading light and just want to grab the fastest shutter speed you have available, then use this mode and set the largest aperture you have available (which is to say the smallest f/ number, e.g. f/2.8). Your camera will then select the fastest shutter speed possible.

Manual mode: Many professionals prefer to set a manual exposure for consistency (for shooting in high-contrast lighting, for example). If you know better than your camera then by all means use manual mode if you have to.

P(rogram): Many professionals avoid using this mode, which sets both your aperture and shutter speed automatically. But if you're not comfortable using one of the semi-automatic modes, you can always use this and shift the program towards faster shutter speeds and smaller apertures (see below).
 This is needed when using (M) manual mode. A fast shutter speed is what actually stops the motion; speeds above 1/200 of a second begin to stop a lot of action, but for sports it is recommended that you shoot with a speed of 1/1000 of a second or higher. This is your goal, unless you are using your shutter speed to accomplish more artistic effects.
 ISO (the sensor's sensitivity to light) will directly affect how fast the shutter speed on your camera can be set while maintaining the correct exposure. The higher ISO (ex. 3200 or 6400) allows for a faster shutter speed. High ISOs come with a trade-off; the higher the ISO, the more noise will be present in the image.


With modern SLRs, don't be afraid to crank up your ISO as high as you need it to get the shutter speed you want. A noisy sharp photograph is always better than a clean blurry one, and recent digital SLRs look great at ISOs that film shooters could only dream of.
 In this mode, the camera will track and predict subject motion, as opposed to locking the focus as soon as it acquired (which will result in most of your photos being out of focus). Canon cameras call this AI Servo, and Nikon cameras call this C or AF-C.

