 One of the most classic games you can play with your dog outside is fetch. Traditionally, you’d throw a ball or a stick you found outside for your dog to retrieve and bring back to you. You can, however, vary how you play fetch to keep it interesting for your dog. For instance, try brining some other toys with you, like a toy bone or stuffed animal, and throw these for your dog to retrieve.


Also, vary the height, direction, and length at which you throw while you’re playing fetch with your dog. This will help keep it interested in the game.While you are playing, work on your dog’s obedience training. Focus on training your dog to learn commands like “come,” “drop it,” “lie down,” and “release.”, Playing Frisbee with your dog is a bit different than playing fetch. The Frisbee hangs in the air after you throw it, giving your dog an extra challenge in trying to catch it before it hits the ground. Once it catches the Frisbee, have your dog return it to you so you can throw it again.


You can buy Frisbees in varying degrees of toughness, depending how aggressive your dog is when playing this game. If your dog is rather gently with the Frisbee, a soft Frisbee will be fine, but if your dog is tough on Frisbees, get one that is more durable., Generally, dogs love water and yours will probably enjoy playing or swimming in it while it is outside. Try setting up sprinklers for your dog to run through in your back yard or taking it to the beach or lake for a swim.Make sure you have a towel handy to dry your dog off before it comes inside the house or gets into your car.
 Hide and seek is a fun game for your dog, as well as one that will allow it to practice its tracking skills. To start, show an item, like a toy or ball, to your dog and allow it to sniff and study the item. Then take the item and hide it. If you have another person with you, you can have them hold the dog while you do this. Or, depending how well your dog is trained, tell your dog to “stay” while you hide the item. When you come back, tell your dog to “find it” and allow it to go hunt the item.You can give your dog verbal clues if it is having trouble locating the item. For example, say “Good!” if it is getting close and “Uh-oh” if it is heading in the wrong direction.
You can also help your dog by pointing in the direction of the toy or moving in the direction where it is hidden.
Praise your dog enthusiastically when it locates the item. You can also give it a treat after finding the hidden toy.
 Another way to have fun with your dog outdoors is to get it to chase you. To do this, mimic another dog and bend down in front of your dog, putting your hands on the ground. Then take off in one direction. Your dog will likely catch on and chase you. Vary the patterns in which you move, making it more challenging for your dog to catch you., Kids aren’t the only ones who love playing with bubbles—your dog will too. Blow some bubbles around your dog and allow them to chase after them, snapping at them with its mouth and bursting them with its nose or paws.


Make sure you get pet-safe bubbles that will not be toxic to your dog if they are ingested or irritating to your dog’s eyes or skin., Tie a string around one of your dog’s favorite toys—preferably one it has just been chewing on—and drag this toy along the ground in some type of pattern (like an “L” or “S” shape, for example). Hide the toy at the end of the trail under a big leaf, some sticks, or a pile of grass. Bring your dog to the beginning of the track and tell it to “find it.” Your dog will love using its scent-tracking skills to locate the toy.


If your dog is having trouble, try pointing to the ground or dragging your finger along the scent trail.