 Remove the pieces from the cabinets by unscrewing them. Place them in an old pan, and cover them with water. Add a dash of dishwashing liquid. Heat the pan on the stove until it boils, then add a couple of spoonfuls of vinegar. Next, add either a spoonful of baking soda or a spoonful of Comet, making sure it doesn't foam over as you do it.Let the mixture simmer for about 10 minutes, then drain off the solution. Scrub the pieces with an old toothbrush. Rinse them, and then let them air dry.
 This trick may sound a little crazy, but many people swear by it. Simply pour some ketchup onto the handle, then scrub it in gently to remove tarnish. Rinse it off to finish. It works best on brass and copper, but you can try it with any metal., Copper can become tarnished over the years, but you can reclaim it through a fairly simple process. Add a cup (240 milliliters) of salt to two cups (480 milliliters) of vinegar, and stir until the salt dissolves. Unscrew the copper handles. Place the hardware in the solution, and let it soak. It can help to let it spend a few hours in the sun, but you'll probably need to let it sit overnight inside.Once it's finished soaking, you should see the solution has foamed up. Take each piece out, and give it a scrub with an old toothbrush.
Rinse off the pieces, and let them air dry.
 Many sinks have clear acrylic handles, and dirt and grime can get inside. To clean them, you need to pop them open. Use a flathead screwdriver to pop off the middle part on the top. Sometimes, you'll have a notch to help, but you can jimmy the screwdriver into the crack even if it's not there. Inside, use the screwdriver to turn the screw and remove the main part of the handle.Once you get it open, scrub the inside well with soap and water. You can use a toothbrush and a cotton swab to get into the hard-to-reach places. If the top has a label inside, use a pin to pry it out to clean.
Dry all the pieces thoroughly. Let them air dry. You don't want to put them back together until they are completely dry because they may grow mold if left wet.
 These sponges use microscopic abrasion to clean with just a bit of water, sanding down the grime. You just add water and scrub the handle with the sponge. However, always test an area first to make sure these sponges won't damage the surface of your handle, as they can be harmful to some surfaces.You can buy these sponges in almost any grocery store or big box store. You can also find them online.
