 Do you just want a costume to wear around town, for fun, or do you want to wear it to an Anime Convention or other big event? If it's your first time cosplaying you may want to choose a character with a simpler outfit. However, if you do not mind strange stares and/or possible harassment, then feel free to go all out. For the latter, any costume will work, although unique costumes are more likely to stand out.;
, Consider your budget and time allowance. If you're short on time, making your costume from scratch may not be the best idea. Keep in mind that makeup and getting the perfect hairdo (regardless if it's your own hair or a wig) also takes time.
 For example, if your character is wearing a jacket and pants; what color are they? Which kind of fabric should you use? Are the clothes baggy or tight?

, Study your character's hair, eye color, and shape of face. Shall you use a wig or not? How should you style your hair? What kind of make up would be fitting and make your face look more like the character? Do you need colored lenses? It would be a good idea to read a little about how to change the shape of your face with make up. Don't forget props.
 It gives you a good view on how the character really looks. Write up your measurements on the sketch and try to figure out what the costumes measurements should be. If the character has any props, a weapon or just a bag for example, sketch them up too.
 The more difficult and detailed the costume is, the more time you'll need to make it. Give yourself more time than you think you need and be really realistic. Also, give yourself a little extra time to fix any eventual mistakes. It's better to have it done early than to have an unfinished costume. Decide in what order you should make everything you need.
 It will take time to make it good, so be patient and try different methods and products.
 Do you look like the character/person? If no, try to figure out why and consider making some changes. It's a good idea to ask a friend or someone else you trust if you look like the character and what you could change. Tell them to be honest, that's why you're asking.
 If you want, you could practice poses the character does a lot. You could also study the way the character walk and/or move, and try to imitate it. It's completely optional.
 Whether you're walking around town, at a party, or a convention, make sure you're having fun with it!

, If you don't have fun, you're not cosplaying the right way!

