 If purple is a school color, consider yourself lucky. If not, always ask permission from your coach to see if it's acceptable and if your coach doesn't mind, add something purple to your uniform. Good ideas would include purple scrunchies for your hair, a purple bracelet (plastic/rubber ones are good for this), or purple socks or shoelaces. Also, have a purple bag (preferably designer if you can afford it over purple, but both is even better) to hold all your stuff if you can. If none of these work, you can always get a purple water bottle and maybe add Swarovski crystals for more glamour. Purple happens to be Massie's favorite color, but if you hate purple and it's not mandatory (school color), you can skip this step.;
, Remember, you're going out for sports, not a party. If you have shorter hair or bangs, a skinny headband is perfect and for longer hair, pull it back in a high ponytail or bun. Above all, make sure your hair out of the way, neatly in place and make sure hair ties and headbands are in school colors, purple or your favorite color. Dry shampoo may also be a good idea in case it gets greasy, odds are likely. Tresemme and Aveeno both make great dry shampoos.
 ALWAYS wear sunscreen if you're outdoors. Avoid foundation, black eyeliner and lipstick at all costs, it will look SO bad when it runs. Try some sheer lip gloss, cheek stain (I LOVE Benetint and Posietint, you can also use them as lipstain) and curling your lashes. To prevent shine on your face, use blotting papers (Clean and Clears is the best) because oil-blotting powder will get cakey and could run, which looks awful.
 Like it or not, sports will cause you to sweat, especially if you're outside. During half-time or when you get the chance, go into the bathroom and dab yourself with a napkin, moist towelette or paper towel. ALWAYS wear a good-quality (preferably girlie scented) antiperspirant designed for sports. Dab a little bit of perfume behind each ear, just make sure it's not too heavy or you may cause a teammate to gag and we don't want that, do we?

, If you're sitting down on a bench, sit and casually look at the game. If the team scores, cheer and clap, but don't go too crazy. If you're playing, smile and stand confidently, no slouching! Be as focused as possible, be ready for anything, have excellent sportsmanship and follow all the rules, period. Never be caught any more than 6 feet (1.8 m) away from the ball if your playing in the field.


If you're a goalie in soccer, keep yourself focused on the ball and be ready to act at the drop of a hat. If that ball gets into the net, you're going to look stupid.
If you're a cheerleader, make sure you're doing all the movements correctly and keep your body tight. Never lose focus during stunts or when you're doing the half time dance, you could embarrass yourself or (even worse) get hurt.
 Smile when your team makes a point and if your team wins, get in a circle with your friends and jump up and down and giggle and what not. If the other team scores, look bemused but not like, "CURSES! DRAT! They have made a point and now we will lose!!". If they win, keep the bemused look but applaud lightly. Whatever you do, don't boo at your opponents or laugh at anyone who gets hurt. Alphas may be witty and clever, but they aren't THAT rude. No matter how popular you are, people WILL look down on you if you stoop down to that level

, Don't say anything more than what's necessary. Say 'good game' at the end, especially if your whole team does it, but don't do much more than that. But don't go to the other extreme and show complete disregard for them or even worse, laugh at their misfortune or make them feel bad. If they visibly need help carrying something or have hurt themselves, act on it and don't pretend it's not happening.

