 Suffice to say, pure H2O intake is a necessary (and shockingly underrated) way of improving your overall health. Drinking water aids in weight loss and improved energy throughout the day. What's more, the surplus moisture will improve circulation throughout your face. Most of its benefits affect your jawline only indirectly, but it's one of the best ways to go about affecting positive physical change.


If you have excess weight to lose, drinking water is a great way to shed pounds, as it will keep you feeling full without the excess calories associated with soda pop and junk food.
Drinking water has also been proven to accelerate the body's metabolism., Salt is one of the most overabundant ingredients in a modern diet, and it does terrible things to the skin. Finding ways of limiting salt in your diet (including focusing on a whole-foods diet and cutting out junk food) will have many positive benefits for your skin. Your skin will carry less water, making it less bloated and consequently more difficult for your jawline to appear.A lot of alternative diets are built around the idea of strictly limiting salt intake. Do some research, and find a diet plan that works for you and your lifestyle.
 You've no doubt been told before that you need at least 8 hours of sleep per evening. Most people usually try to get by with 5 or 6. However, if you're looking to get your jawline looking its best, you're going to need to aim for the full 8 for your body take proper care of itself., Like salt or lack of sleep, smoking can be disastrous for the look of one's skin. If you are a regular smoker and want a better jawline, it can't hurt to quit smoking. As difficult as it may be at first, the improvement you'll see in the look of your skin after a month will keep you feeling enthusiastic and motivated., Gum is one of the easiest and best-known ways of improving your jaw definition. Chewing gum has a lot of surprising benefits, not least of which is sharpening up your facial muscles. The enduring exercise should see results over the course of a few weeks. Best of all, it's a pretty fun thing to do, so it won't take much out of you to make a habit of it.