 Travel agents are able to book car rentals directly with a car rental agency. In some cases they may be able to provide you with discounts not available elsewhere. If you’ve booked other parts of your travel with an agent, ask them about any car rental deals they may be able to offer you., If you are a member at a Costco warehouse, you can use your membership to book car rentals. Use their website CostcoTravel.com to book. Costco has discounts with more than one car rental agency, and will display a price chart so you can compare deals.You can also use the website to view coupons they have for specific car rental agencies, and you can search for rental deals from specific agencies that they’ve partnered with (Alamo, Avis, Budget, and Enterprise).
 Groups and associations often partner with one or more car rental agency to offer their members car rental discounts. If you are a member of any group, check the group's website to see if they have a car rental discount available. Groups could include alumni associations, trade organizations, professional associations, etc.Note that most groups will only have deal with one or two car rental agencies, so your options may be limited.
 The Canadian Automobile Association (CAA) and the American Automobile Association (AAA) offer car rental discounts to members. You can book these deals via the CAA/AAA website, in-person at a CAA/AAA location, or by phone.While the CAA/AAA may have partnered with one or two specific car rental agencies for deals, many other car rental agencies will offer discounts if you have a CAA/AAA membership. However, you’ll need to book the rental directly through the agency.Keep in mind that even if you never purchased a CAA/AAA membership, your car’s warranty may include membership., Companies that book a lot of travel often have special discounts due to this volume. Some companies will allow their employees to use these discounts for personal travel as well. If your company has a travel booking website, review the policies to see if you can use it for personal travel.

