 Bathing a hamster in wet water is not recommended. Water strips hamster fur of essential oils, which can cause health problems and even death. You should only wet bathe your hamster in the event something toxic gets stuck on his fur. In this case, you want to wash the material off before the hamster begins licking himself., Do not jump immediately to wet bathing if something's stuck in your hamster's fur. The ideal course of action for your hamster's safety is to take a small pair of scissors and clip out the infected fur.


Handle your hamster with care. If a hamster is frightened during the clipping process, he may squirm which can cause accidents. Gently pet your hamster for a few minutes before picking him up.
Hold your hamster so that he remains relatively still but be gentle with him. Hamsters are small and handling them too harshly can cause injury.
Slowly clip out the infected area of fur, making sure you get all traces of toxic material safely out of a hamster's fur. Hamsters spend roughly 20% of their time grooming themselves. If toxic material is left in a hamster's fur, it's very likely he will lick or chew at it., Not all hamsters will cooperate when being clipped. If your hamster won't stop squirming, you do not want to risk injuring him. In this case, the best course of action may be wet bathing. However, you should never submerge a hamster in a bowl of water. Instead, spot clean the area.


First, take a soft-bristled tooth brush. Add a little warm water and brush around the infected area. Detangle any matted fur.Then, take a small bit of cotton wool. Add warm water and gently rub out the material from the hamster's fur. Make sure you clean out all the material before finishing.Never use shampoo on a hamster's fur unless it was specifically recommended by a veterinarian. As hamsters are not typically bathed, few pet shampoos are made with their safety in mind. Shampoo can be potentially toxic to hamsters., Long-haired hamsters rely on their fur to keep them warm. You should never return a hamster to his cage without drying him first. Take a clean, dry rag and rub the wet area of your hamster's fur until it's fully dry. This may take a few minutes. Check the area with your fingers to make sure it's dry before returning your hamster to his cage.