 Do you tend to stay in on the weekends, turning to the same favorite shows and take-out places over and over? The comfort marriage provides is nice, but it's important to add some variety, too. Taking vacations, weekend trips or even short day trips to places you've never been is a great way to spark interesting conversations and find new reasons to laugh together.



Plan a trip with activities you think both of you will enjoy. If you both love wine, go wine tasting at a new winery, and buy a few bottles to take home so you'll remember what a nice time you had.
If you and your spouse are adventurous types, plan a trip that takes you far from your comfort zone. For example, you could visit a country where people speak another language and have fun finding your way around a foreign city together. Or for a weekend or day trip, instead of driving to the next town over, try riding your bikes instead, or taking a rafting trip. Do something that will help you feel like a team again.;
, It's fun and sexy to see your spouse trying out your hobby for the sake of love and adventure. If your spouse is a French film buff but you like to spend your free time playing sports, give up a game night to go see a film that you can talk about together afterward. In exchange, ask your spouse to join in for a pick-up game or play a singles tennis match with you sometime. You'll get to see each other feeling happy and in your respective elements, and that's definitely a recipe for spicing up a marriage.


You don't have to completely adopt your partner's hobby; maybe you hate subtitles, or you really dislike having tennis balls flying at your head. Just giving it an honest try will make your partner feel good. And no complaining!
Take pleasure in watching your partner enjoy his or her hobby. People only choose hobbies that make them happy. Your partner's happiness should make you happy, too!

, Do work, school, your kids' needs, and finances tend to be the subject of most of your conversations? Falling into the rut of never talking about things are fun and exciting can spell doom for a marriage over time. Make a point of having at least one conversation a day about something not related to everyday life. You'll find that both of you enjoy talking with each other a lot more when you aren't spouting worries every time you open your mouth.


Reading books and news articles is one way to get new conversation fodder. Talk about what's going on in the world outside your marriage. Politics, current events, scientific advancements, and pop culture are good conversation topics. Watch movies and shows together and analyze them together afterward. Make plans together and talk them out leading up to the events.
Try talking about something fun, new or interesting first thing in the morning. The first conversation you have will set the tone for the day. Rather than asking "Did you remember to pay the gas bill?" Start a pleasant conversation about what you're looking forward that day.
 This goes for woman and men! Sometimes adding spice is as easy as switching out the same old jacket for something bright and new, or wearing your hair in a different style every once in a while. Your partner will love seeing you trying something new. Wear a new shade of lipstick, get bangs, shave your beard, buy new shoes, put away that old t-shirt you wear every weekend - the possibilities are endless.


For added fun, dress completely differently for a day, and act totally charming. For example, if you're a jeans kind of guy, put on dress pants and a button-down shirt with some cologne. Kiss your spouse on the neck and tell her how much you love her.
You could also agree as a couple to dress as strangers - lots of couples do it! Plan on wearing interesting, sexy clothes and go separately to the same bar or hotel. When you see each other, pretend like you're meeting each other for the first time.

