 Whether you are putting gifts in your checked luggage or your carry-on, use suitcases with hard outer shells to protect the items inside. Checked luggage is often tossed around quite a bit and will come into contact with objects and hard surfaces, so the shell can help prevent significant damage. Your carry-on is slightly safer, but it will still need to be stowed away in an overhead bin during the flight. If you encounter turbulence, your carry-on may get shifted around.


Place gifts in the center of your suitcase and surround them with soft items, like clothing, for additional protection.
 Because you have to stow larger carry-on luggage in overhead bins, you won’t be able to protect yours with complete control. Put gifts that are particularly valuable or fragile in a small bag – usually referred to by airlines as a personal item. Typically, purses, backpacks, suitcases and laptop bags fall into the “personal item” category. Most airlines will allow you to bring one personal item onboard, in addition to your larger carry-on.If the item is too large to fit into a smaller bag, go ahead and pack it in a larger carry-on bag, but try to bury it deep inside. That way, anyone bent on stealing from you would essentially have to dump the entire contents of the bag out to get to the valuables.
Buy traveler’s insurance for your high dollar items.
 This includes breakable objects that aren’t particularly valuable. If the gift isn’t fragile, wrap thick, soft clothing around it to act as a cushion. Then bury it in the piece of luggage you plan to check at the airport. If the gift is fragile – for instance, a bottle of wine of a ceramic vase – surround it in bubble wrap first, then wrap soft clothing around it. Nestle it deep in your luggage, surrounded by additional clothing.
 Whenever you fly into a different country, you will have to pass through customs at the airport. You will be asked if you have anything to declare – essentially they want to know if you are bringing anything back to your own country and/or if you’re carrying anything potentially hazardous. Depending on what the item is, you may need to pay a duty fee if you want to travel with it. Rules vary by country, but it is typical to be allowed a certain amount of duty-free exemptions.


For example, travelers are allowed to bring up to $800 worth of merchandise back to the United States without having to pay duty.You must declare the gifts to customs to be able to include them in your personal exemption.If you purchased gifts that you want to bring back to your home country, you will be asked to provide receipts for them, so keep those easily accessible. 