 Each space on a Cranium board corresponds to a certain type of card. The cards contain activities that must be completed before your team can move across the board. There should be a small hourglass timer that comes with cranium that allows players one minute to complete the activity. If you do not have your timer, you can use a watch or phone to keep track of time. One type of card is the creative cat.


The creative cat card involves a creative activity. You may use the clay to make a sculpture and have another player guess what you're sculpting. You may also do a Pictionary-type drawing activity.Unless otherwise specified on the card, you can choose which team member performs the activity. When playing Creative Cat, it's a good idea to pick a more artistically inclined player. If someone is good at drawing or sculpting, allowing that person to engage in the activity will give your team a better chance at winning.
 Data Head cards are simple trivia cards. They have regular types of trivia in addition to true/false and multiple choice questions. To successfully complete this activity, you need to answer the questions correctly.Choose a player with a knack for trivia to complete this activity. If someone is good at something like bar trivia or Trivial Pursuit, they'll be your best bet for this activity.
If you're chosen for a Data Head activity and you don't know the answer, go with your gut response. Many times, trivia answers are things we've learned at some point but do not consciously remember. If you have a gut feeling one answer is right, take a shot. You should be especially willing to take this risk if the answer is multiple choice or True/False. You'll have a 25-50% chance of being correct., Word Worm cards involve challenges with words. Words may be scrambled, for example, or you may have to guess the definition of a given word.Pick a player with a good vocabulary for this card. People who read a lot or who write for a living might be better at defining or unscrambling words.
If anyone on your team has a background in etymology or linguistics, choose them for this activity. Oftentimes, the roots used in words offer a hint to their meaning. Someone who's studied words academically is more likely to pick up on these subtleties.
 Star Performer cards are slightly more elaborate. They come in three different categories.


Humdinger cards involve humming the tune to a popular song. The other player has to guess what song you are humming.If you have a Humdinger, you should pick someone that is able to carry. Also choose someone who knows popular music. Someone who's a classically trained pianist could potentially be great at humming. However, if this person has spent his whole life playing Chopin he might not know the tune to a Bruce Springsteen song offhand.
Copycat cards require you to act like a famous person.Pick a team member who's fun-loving, uninhibited, and somewhat dramatic. The more someone is willing to put themselves out there and perform, the better chance you have of guessing the answer. As with a humdinger card, make sure it's someone well acquainted with pop culture so they'll recognize the name on the card.
Cameo cards are similar to charades in which you have to get the other player to guess a particular person, place, or thing by silently acting out clues.Yet again, someone who is willing to put themselves out there and perform is your best choice.
 Some cards have a "club cranium" symbol on them. When a team draws such a card, all players have to join in. Whichever team successfully completes the activity first gets to move across the board.Try to focus on your own team during the activity. Listening in on other players can cause stress, distracting you from your own players.
Remember to have fun. Getting too competitive during board games can take away some of the entertainment value.

