 When you are aware of the triggers that drive you to procrastinate you can come up with a plan to overcome them. Look for common themes in your behaviors that generally lead to you procrastinating. Then, figure out a course of action to avoid this trigger.If you know that feeling overwhelmed by a big task increases the odds of you putting it off, take action to prevent this from happening. For example, you have to complete a book report and then prepare a presentation on your report. You might break the task down to make it more manageable. First, you might conduct research. Then, complete an outline, a first draft, second drafts and a final report. Then, you might take notes from your report to develop an outline for the presentation. Then, flesh out the presentation. Finally, you will want to practice it aloud and tweak it as needed.
 To prevent this, you’ll simply have to learn how to say “no.” Taking on too many tasks is one of the simplest ways to feel overwhelmed and bogged down by projects, instead of enjoying them. Simplifying your life and only taking on what you want to and can, may help you stop leaving things unfinished.If a friend asks you to help with a new community event, or your coworker wants your expertise on a project, decide if you truly want to participate. If not, say “I’m sorry, but I’ve got my hands in a lot of projects right now. I won’t be able to help this time.”

, Positive peer pressure can be just the thing you need to help you complete unfinished tasks. Surround yourself with a support network of positive people who get things done. Then, find one of them to serve as an accountability partner. Or, you can simply make a public announcement of your goals and update the group as a whole., Sometimes, no matter how hard you try, you cannot beat your problem on your own. Even with the right strategies in place and with support, you still might have trouble completing tasks due to a deeper issue, such as anxiety, ADHD, or low self-esteem. It can help to see a professional for consistent problems getting things done.A therapist can help you find the source for your procrastination and develop practical strategies for overcoming the underlying issue. Talk to your primary care doctor for a referral or research a therapist in your local area.

