 Get down on your knees and place your tinder underneath your twigs. Place yourself between the fire and the wind. If there is a lot of wind, use your logs to create a barrier which will stop the breeze from buffeting your fire.
 Strike a match or a lighter, then hold the flame directly beneath your paper. The tinder will catch and begin to burn. Use the same match to light the tinder in multiple places. Watch the fire carefully to make sure that the kindling (twigs, leaves, bark) catches and stays ablaze.


Try fanning the flames to push airflow through the kindling. Fire catches best when there is a slight breeze, but not enough to blow it out.
 As the kindling catches, proceed to place larger and larger branches on top of it until you can no longer see the flames. Be patient, and don't add too much at once. Make sure to leave plenty of gaps for airflow – you don't want to suffocate the fire.
 Once the blaze burns through the larger branches, heave one large log onto the top of the kindling. Again, make sure not to stifle the fire. After ten minutes, put two more logs onto the fire, along with a few more large branches. Add fuel every 45 minutes, or as needed.
 Keep an eye on the flame to make sure that it doesn't get out of control; watch where the sparks are landing, and be aware of where the wind is blowing. From time to time, stoke the heart of the fire with a long stick to push the embers to the surface. Knock off charred portions of log in order to expose new wood to the flame. When the fire gets low, add more branches or another log.
 Make sure to extinguish the flames before abandoning the campsite, going to sleep, or otherwise leaving the fire unattended. If possible, wait for the fire to naturally burn down to the embers. Start by shoveling dirt or sand into the pit to subdue the blaze. Then, when the fire is just coals, pour water over the embers until they have cooled – when they are no longer giving off steam.Avoid pouring water directly onto a blazing fire. This will extinguish the flames quickly, but it will also throw up a large cloud of dust and steam. Be patient.
When the fire is out, fill in the pit completely with dirt. If you are camping in the backcountry, consider scattering the stones, rearranging the leaves, and returning the space to the way it was when you found it.

