 Make sure it is comfortable and has good brakes. Any problems the bike has when you start are going to be magnified once it has 40 pounds of electric "stuff" added to it and an extra horsepower pushing it around. It'll be harder to stop and the ride will be rougher. Full suspension department store bikes actually work well, but you'll probably want to change the low-pressure knobby tires to some higher-pressure street tires (going from 35 to 65psi makes a huge difference! This is a cheaper way to get extra range rather than buying more batteries). For this bike build, you want a bike with some space in the triangle between the rider's legs.;
, Alternatively, you can get the crank and sprockets from another bike and transplant them to the side of *your* bike that has no sprockets.
 This is where your batteries will go. Want some extra storage capacity? You can use U-bolts and some cheap plastic, rectangular trash cans from a place like Big Lots. Just attach them to the side of the rack using the U-bolts.
 You need to know the voltage of your battery pack before you start buying the other parts. 24 volts and 36 volts are very common voltages for electric bikes. You can go higher but all the parts start to get more expensive and harder to find. The easiest to obtain and cheapest batteries are small gel cell lead acid batteries often used in uninterruptible power supplies (UPS). These come rated at 12 volts and 7 to 12 amp-hour capacity. Car batteries won't work! First off, if they turn over, the acid can spill out. In addition, they're built to be used hard for a few seconds, rather than lightly for a long time, and they will not last.
 Multiple batteries can be wired together in "series" to get a higher system voltage and in "parallel" to get a higher system amp hour rating. Mouser.com stocks 12volt, 7 amp hour batteries for around $25 usually. Get some braided copper cable to attach the batteries together. Solid core wire like Romex (used for wiring household electrical stuff) will not survive the vibration of a moving vehicle.
 You can probably get one at the same place you get the following items... (On the other hand, for lead acid batteries, a car charger will work, but you will need to charge each battery separately).
 Most motors come with no sprocket or a sprocket that only fits No. 25 or No. 35 chain (which is used on go-karts and scooters). Sticking to bicycle chain will make your life a lot easier. The Unite MY1018 is available as a 250Watt-350Watt motor on several scooter parts stores online.
, It's more likely the connectors on the throttle and controller will match if they come from the same place. If in doubt, ask the store. Sometimes you need to buy the connectors separately.
 This is usually difficult, so the backup solution is to get some Anderson Power Pole connectors from a place like Newark.com, cut off the connector that comes with the controller, and just use the Anderson.
 Aluminum is much lighter and easier to work with than steel, but it's more expensive. The dimensions will vary on your bicycle's triangle.
 The tubing size varies so you'll have to measure it. These are likely called "stainless steel plumbing clamps" at your local big box home improvement store.
,,,, Attach the throttle to the controller, then the motor to the controller, connect the batteries together, and then connect the batteries to the controller.
 The - from the 1st and the + from the 2nd battery are now 24v apart!

, The + and - are now still 12v apart, but the combined battery has a capacity of 14 amp hours!

, Don't ever make a complete circuit with the batteries alone (there should always be two wires hanging out freely!), they will discharge quickly, melting wires, leaking, burning your fingers, and possibly starting a fire!

, The motor should spin. If it doesn't, recheck all the connections. Be patient, a wrong move here can be costly.
 You'll forget by the next morning.
 The idea is to mount the MY1018 motor in the triangle formed by the bike's frame and attach a chain from the motor to a crank sprocket. Which sprocket? The choice will depend on alignment.
 The master link is used to connect the two ends of the chain together, but only every other link can be replaced with a master link, so make sure the motor is positioned correctly. It should be snug but not tight. If it is loose or sloppy, it will tend to fall off during hard acceleration or going uphill.
 Get out a sharpie and draw where you will need to cut the plate for the motor to fit and for the plate to fit on the bicycle. The motor will bolt to the plate, and the plate should touch the bicycle's frame at 3 points-- any less and it will not stay in place.
 A grinder will help clean things up. A hand file is time consuming but works too, especially on aluminum.
 You'll probably have to go back to the grinder again a few times.
 It's very hard to get all 3 holes just right the first time around, just try to get two right and then re-drill the 3rd hole until it lines up. You might need to get the grinder back out again.
 Remember the three spots that touch the frame? Now you'll need to drill or cut holes at those three points so you can attach the plate to the frame using the hose clamps. A dremel with a cutting wheel works very well. A drill works too but requires making a lot of holes in a straight line.
 Either use a chain tool to shorten the chain or cut the chain (the cheap Walmart chain tools will work for two or three uses). You can remove the damaged link with a nail, hammer, and a vise.
 You can no longer change gears on the front sprocket because then the two chains would collide, so adjust the shifter to prevent this from happening (or just cover it with duct tape). Once all the "mechanical" pieces are worked out, go for a test ride to make sure nothing is stuck and the chain doesn't fall off.
 Zip ties are perfect for this.
 The hardest part about mounting the throttle is getting the hand grips off. There's an easy way to do this. Get something thin and stiff-- an old bicycle spoke or coat hanger are perfect-- insert it between the grip and the handlebar, then pour some 50/50 water, and dish soap mixture down the coat hanger. It will work its way under the grip, you can then twist it around, and it will come off.
 Usually, there is an allen head set screw to tighten the throttle to the handlebar. Tighten it.
,, Attach the battery pack to the controller per the instructions that came with it. Twist the throttle. Does the motor spin? Does the bicycle's rear wheel spin? Let go of the throttle. Does the motor stop spinning? If you didn't secure the wheels off the ground, you might now find the bike taking off across the garage without you on board.
 You'll probably need to make some revision after riding a few times.
 Duct tape doesn't hold up in the sun and rain, and it leaves a gooey mess behind.
 This is where washers come in handy. To be honest, you'll find things stretch after riding for a little bit, so you'll probably have to make adjustments after the first few rides, so don't expect to ride to a job interview on your first trip or anything else important.

