 Before bringing your new Rottie home, decide if he will have access to the entire house. If not, be sure to keep doors closed or set up baby gates to keep the dog out of restricted areas.Even if the dog will have full run of the house, it might be a good idea to restrict certain areas until your dog is used to its new home and isn’t having any bathroom accidents inside.
 Set up a dog bed or crate where your new Rottie can take time out away from everyone whenever he needs it. It can take dogs adopted from shelters up to two months to fully adjust to their new home.Make sure your Rottie has its own space.
 Routines work great for many different types of dogs, and work especially well with Rottweilers. By creating a routine, your new Rottie will learn what to expect throughout the day, which will help him adjust to his new home more quickly. The routine should also help your Rottie feel more secure in his new surroundings.Feed your Rottweiler at the same times each day.
Take him out to use the bathroom around the same times each day. Although, if he indicates he needs to go, take him out right away even if it is not the usual time.
Walk your Rottweiler or take him out to play around the same times every day. For instance, if you plan to walk your dog first thing in the morning, be consistent with that daily.
 Rottweilers are extremely energetic and require regular exercise to expend all that energy.Schedule daily outdoor playtime to give your Rottie enough exercise. If you don’t have your own yard, try taking your dog to a nearby park where he can stretch out and run around.


Activities your Rottie is likely to enjoy include taking walks, jogging with you, playing fetch, and even swimming., Just as your new Rottie will need time to adjust to you and your family, he will also need to get used to any visitors you have. When friends, family, or neighbors stop by, introduce them to your dog, then have them give the dog space. They might want to pet or play with your Rottie right away, but ask them to wait. Your Rottweiler will approach them when he’s ready to get to know them., The best way to get your new Rottweiler to continue behaving the way you want is to offer a reward. Let your new Rottweiler know when he’s done something positive by verbally praising him, petting him, or giving him a treat. Rewarding your dog a treat right after the desired behavior, lets him know he should do that again in the future.