 Ideally it should be compact and easily carried, so that the bride finds it easy to toss in with anything else she's toting around on the wedding day. A small purse, tiny keepsake box or a toiletry bag are probably good choices.


For an extra-special touch, buy or make a bag or container in the wedding colours (if you already know them). For a special touch, embroider or write the bride's name or "Bride Survival Kit" on the item.
Make sure that it's big enough to hold all the items you put in it, but not so big that it's awkward to carry around.;
, Before going out and buying a bunch of items to put inside, consider using some items you probably already have in your house. You can always improve their appearance by by tying ribbons (in the wedding colours) around them. Look for items such as:


Tampons/sanitary napkins/panty liners (it's always best to add one of each, assume nothing)
Q-tips
Band-aids
Safety pins
Spare pair of pantyhose.
 When thinking of what to put inside, try to think of everything that could go wrong at a wedding (unless you are the bride - don't stress yourself out!). Then, put in an item that could fix or help with that problem. For example:


Mini nail file
Small tube of lip gloss
Topcoat of nail polish
Travel-sized hand sanitizer
Mini hairspray
Travel-sized sunblock
Compact mirror
Mini body lotion
Small pack of mints
Comb
Mini sewing kit
Travel-sized deodorant
Stain remover stick or sheets
Small pack of tissues
Sample-sized mascara (preferably waterproof).
 It's a great idea to give the bride something small to nibble on if she's feeling nervous or a little peckish before the ceremony. Don't put in anything too big or messy. Consider something like a granola bar and a small juice box (choose something light-coloured such as apple juice - not something that will stain the dress!). To be on the safe side, you could put in a mini water bottle instead of a juice box.
 Don't write her a novel or make her a scrapbook - just add a handwritten note of encouragement and well-wishes to help her keep a handle on her nerves. If she likes sentimental things, write her a nice note about how much she means to you and that you wish her all the best. If she prefers something with a bit of humor, write her a few jokes (perhaps wedding-themed jokes) to make her laugh away the nerves.

