 You will need a set of pick up sticks before you can play. Colorful wood and plastic sets are available. Some sets even feature special sticks that can be used to pick up the sticks., Keeping score is optional, but you will need to keep score if you want to make the game last for several rounds of picking up sticks., You will need at least two people to play Pick up Sticks, but you can play with more than two people as well. This game is great for children and adults, so you can play with your parents, siblings, or friends.
 If you are keeping score, then write down all of the players’ names on your sheet of paper. Leave plenty of room below each name to write down each person’s scores., You can play to 200 points, 300 points, 500 points, or more! It is up to you and the other players. The higher the point goal that you set, the longer your game will last., Make sure that all of the sticks are standing up vertically. Hold the bundle of sticks a few inches above a flat surface, like a table or the floor., Let the sticks fall freely. When all of the sticks have come to rest, you will be ready to begin playing!, Let the youngest player go first and then have the player to the left of the youngest player go next. Keep moving clockwise around your group of players until the game ends.
 Try not to touch or move other sticks when you are trying to pick up a stick. If you move a stick while you are trying to pull out another stick, you must let go of the stick and stop your turn., The object of the game is to pick up the most sticks over the course of the game. Every time that you successfully pick up a stick, you may try to pick up another stick. Keep picking up sticks until you move another stick and lose your turn. You can set a limit on the number of sticks that may be picked up per turn. Setting a limit is a good way to make the game last longer and also avoid having someone pick up all of the sticks on their first turn., If you are keeping score, then you will need to add up each person’s points after each turn. Points are assigned based on the color of the sticks. Write down the points that each player earns at the end of his or her turn.Black = 25 points
Red = 10 points
Blue = 5 points
Green = 2 points
Yellow = 1 point

, If you manage to pick up the black stick (also known as the master stick), then you may use that stick to move other sticks away from sticks that you want to pick up. The black stick is the only stick that can be used to move other sticks., Keep playing until someone wins the game. The game will either be over when one of the player reaches the goal score or when all of the sticks have been picked up.If you are playing to a certain score, then add up each player’s points occasionally to see how everyone is doing.
If you are just playing until all of the sticks have been picked up, then stop the game when there are no more sticks to pick up and have the players count the number of sticks they have picked up. The player with the most sticks wins.
To start a new round, gather all of the sticks again and do a new stick drop.

