 Do not hang the deer by its neck (or drag it with a rope around its neck) if you intend to shoulder mount the deer, as doing so will damage the hide.
 If you wish to mount the deer's head and shoulders, you need to take care not to damage the cape when skinning. This skinning method will leave plenty of intact cape for any shoulder mounting.


The first incision you should make is around the chest of the animal at the bottom of the sternum (or breastbone).
After your initial incision, make the rest of your cuts with the knife blade facing up. This helps prolong the blade's life (as it is not cutting through the fur) and minimizes the chance of you accidentally puncturing an organ.
 Now make incisions around the forelegs, halfway between the knees and the armpits. After circumcising the forelegs. Extend the incision up from the circumcision to the armpit. The incision running up the leg should follow the line where the brown and white fur meet.


Take your time to do the leg incisions correctly, follow where the brown and white fur meet carefully.
 Once you have finished following the white fur/brown fur inter-phase up the leg and into the armpit, continue the cut straight back and intersect with the incision around the chest. When done, this cut should run parallel to the body of the deer.
 Slowly with a small knife cut the underlying membrane and peel back the hide. As you skin, roll the cape off of the carcass to avoid getting too much hair on the meat.


Be careful not to cut the hide.
 After you have removed all of the skin off of the forelegs, chest and neck you are ready to remove the head. To do this, about four inches behind the skull use a small sharp knife to cut through the muscle down to the bone. Once you reach the vertebrae use a small bone saw to cut the bone and remove the head.


You are not cutting the skin in this step. The neck skin should already be be peeled back.
Your taxidermist will use this 3–4 inches (7.6–10.2 cm) of neck to make the measurements needed to pick an appropriately sized mannequin for your mount.
 You can now skin the rear of the animal using any means. When done, rinse the carcass to remove any fur stuck to the meat.
 Place the cape and head into a bag to immediately bring to your local taxidermist.

