 If you find a patch in which many of the plants have four leaves, it's probably a clover look-alike, such as Marsilea quadrifolia (leaves have a triangular shape with rounded corners, grows in wet soil and water) or Oxalis tetraphylla/deppei (purple in the center, where the four leaflets meet). What you want to look for is a patch of white clover (Trifolium repens, identified by white flowers) because they're more likely to produce a four-leaf plant than other types of clover.;
, When you are starting out, don't stare down every single clover. Brush over the clover gently with your foot so that you can see them all. This should catch the more conspicuous clovers. Your eyes will naturally go to the odd one out. If you find 3 or more in less than 3 minutes, you probably have a hot spot. Mark this place and visit it often, because the mutation will happen again. You can usually get 10 or so out of a well-sized "hot spot" with close inspection.
 Most four-leaf clovers have one leaf that is smaller than the other three. Some leaves have white or red or no lines. The leaves can be rounded or heart-shaped.
 It is commonly thought that 4-leaf clovers are actually caused by a genetic defect in the root of the clover plant. Most clovers in patches are either growing from one plant or a network of plants. So, the chances are that if you've found one defected clover, there's likely to be more there. Place a small flag or the like to mark it so you can check the rest of the areas.
, When it starts growing roots, plant it in a clear area in your yard. It spreads fast, and the patch will have the same genetics as the original.
 Store the seeds until the next spring, or refrigerate them. Plant them, and wait until each young plant has several dozen heads to determine whether it has the multi-leaf gene.
 Clovers don't appear to do well in containers, such as pots; it is better to transplant them to a raised bed (or your lawn) as soon as possible. They are also very sensitive to dehydration, and severe dehydration can cause the plant to revert to its three-leaf state, even once it is hydrated and spreading again.

