 A gift wrapping party, in essence, is about getting together with friends to have fun doing something that can be tedious and time consuming. Since this is a for-fun activity, there’s no point in stressing over fancy invites. A simple email to your friends and family should be more than enough to get the ball rolling in your party planning.If you plan on this gift wrapping party to be a more elegant affair, there’s nothing wrong with putting together formal invitations for your guests.;
, An open color scheme for your wrapping party is perfectly fine. However, without a color scheme, you’ll have to buy a wider range of wrapping paper and supplies, which could add unnecessary expense. You’re already hosting the party and maybe even providing food, there’s no reason for you to go broke providing a rainbow of wrapping supplies! Some color schemes include:Those related to the event you’re wrapping for. For example, if you’re wrapping Christmas presents, you might choose red and green. For a wedding, you might wrap presents in the wedding party’s colors.
Seasonal color schemes. In fall, you might choose fall colors or a harvest theme. Rustic twine would work well in this situation in place of bows. During winter, consider blue, white, and snowflake themes.
Color schemes that reflect the recipient of the gift. For example, if you’re wrapping presents for a space enthusiast, you might choose cosmic themed wrapping paper, or black paper decorated with stickers that look like planets and stars.
 You should be able to purchase most of your gift wrapping supplies at general retailers, like Walmart and Target. Even grocery stores are likely to carry some wrapping paper, though the supply may be limited. A broader selection can be found at craft or hobby stores. Should you be on a budget, you might ask your guests to bring some supplies, too. Some you might want to stock up on include:


Bows
Decorative tape (like washi tape or patterned duct tape)
Gift bags/boxes
Glue
Labels and tags
Pens and markers (for labeling presents)
Ribbon
Straight edge or ruler
Stickers
Tape (many rolls)
Twine
Wrapping paper (many rolls), Depending on how many gifts need to be wrapped, you and your friends might be wrapping for quite some time. Have some non-messy finger food on hand so that your gift wrapping crew can eat when they’re hungry, without getting their hands greasy or sticky. Some food ideas include:Veggies and some kind of dip or spread, like hummus. This snack is light and healthy, which means you don’t have to worry about it weighing you down.

Deviled eggs are a popular hors d'oeuvres you might serve at your wrapping party. You might want to set out napkins with these, just in case the egg filling gets on fingers.
A meat and cheese platter, served with toothpicks pre-inserted, might be just the thing to satisfy guests during marathon gift wrapping sessions.
 You don't have to feel obligated to provide everything. Many of your guests probably wouldn't mind bringing some juice, soda pop, sparkling water, wine, or other drinks. However, if you do want to provide drink, you could economize by making a large batch of:


Sherbert punch
Fruit punch
Alcoholic punch
Hot apple cider

, If you and your guests are wrapping a lot of presents, these can accumulate inconveniently on your wrapping table or the floor. When this happens, wrapped gifts can be tripped over. In some cases, gifts might be lost, misplaced, or forgotten. Choose a location where gifts can be placed when they are done.You can further organize your gift landing zone by writing your and your guests' names on index cards. Use these to separate finished presents, so none get mixed up in another person’s finished pile.

