 To find eyeshadow and mascara that is right for you, you first need to properly identify your eye color. There are four main eye color types: blue eyes, hazel-brown eyes, dark brown/black eyes, and green eyes.If you happen to have heterochromia, where you have two different colored eyes, you may want to factor in your skin tone to help you choose eyeshadow. Try to choose the same eyeshadow color for both eyes, though different eyeshadow colors on each eye can make for a quirky, fun look.
 Blue eyes really pop when they are framed with eyeshadow in warm hues like gold, orange, peach, pink, coral, beige, bronze, or apricot. In general, orange is a complementary color for blue, so eyeshadow in variations on orange are a good option for this eye color.You may want to avoid eyeshadow in blue-green, as this shade can reduce the intensity of your blue eyes.
You can try color combinations like peach and gold or coral and pink to create a fun eyeshadow look. Try starting with the peach or pink first on your inner eyelids, then adding a light layer of gold on your outer eyelids.
 Green eyes look great with cool shades like plum, purple, pink, mauve, red-brown, crimson, and copper. Look for eyeshadows in these colors and avoid blue eye shadow or green eye shadow, as they will not enhance your eyes.You can try color combinations like plum and pink or purple and then a lighter purple shade. Start with the darker colors first, like plum or purple, on your inner eyelids and then finish your look with a layer of the lighter colors, like pink or light purple, on your outer eyelids.
 Hazel-brown eyes look great with many shades, from gray-green to golden brown. You can also apply eyeshadow in orange, khaki, blue-gray, gold, or light brown.Put together color combinations like gray-green and gold or orange and golden brown. Start with the darker shade on your inner eyelid first, like gray-green, and then add a layer of the lighter shade on your outer eyelid, like gold or golden brown.
 Go for deep shades that will highlight your dark eyes, such as dark gray, navy blue, deep plum, or brown. You should avoid pastels shades or very light, pale shades, as they can make you look washed out.You should also try eyeshadows that contain metallics, like gold, silver, copper, or bronze, to add some light to your dark eyes. Avoid matte eyeshadows.
Create color combinations like navy blue and silver or deep plum and bronze. You can then apply the darker shade first, such as navy blue, on your inner eyelids, and then finish with the lighter shade, such as silver, on your outer eyelids.
 You should also consider other eye makeup like eyeliner and mascara. Often, black mascara and black eyeliner can look good with almost any eye color. You can do a dramatic cat eye or winged eyeliner with black eyeliner and finish with a few swoops of mascara for a night out or put eyeshadow on top of black eyeliner for a fun look. However, certain eyeliner colors look better with certain eye colors, making your eye color really pop.If you have blue eyes, go for eyeliner in copper or gold.
If you have green eyes, choose eyeliner in bronze or purple.
If you have hazel-brown eyes, go for eyeliner in bronze, olive, purple, or green.
If you have dark-brown or black eyes, choose eyeliner in amber, midnight blue, purple, or gray

