 If you're looking for a little time away from your parents, consider joining something they'd approve of that lets you get away for certain periods of time. For example, you could join an educational club that you feel passionate about or become a part of the yearbook or newspaper staff. That way, your parents won't worry about you being away from them, and you have a good excuse for some away time., You can also fill your time by volunteering. Your parents will view this activity as a responsible, caring thing to do, and you'll get to spend time somewhere away from your parents. Look around in your area, and figure out where you'd be a good fit. You'll find a wide variety of places to volunteer. Plus, volunteering will look good on your resume or college application.For instance, you could read to younger kids at the library or volunteer at your local church.
You could also help build houses with Habitat for Humanity or help sort food at a food bank.
 If you need to be at home but you still want to be away from your parents, consider picking up a hobby that requires you to be alone to practice or work on it. For example, you could learn an instrument, plant a garden, learn to draw, take up jogging, or learn yoga. In fact, you could even convince your parents to let you take a class so you'd have time away from home and need to spend time at home working on it.
 Another way to spend some time away from your parents is to get a job. Of course, you need your parents' permission to get a job, but your parents can likely be persuaded to let you as long as you keep your studies up. Many fast food places hire teenagers, so look around in your area.Check around at the places you visit to see if any of them are hiring.
Present the case to your parents. Explain the reasons why getting a job would be beneficial to your development. For example, you could say, "I'd like to get a job. Getting a job would teach me to be more financially responsible and allow me to at least make my own spending money. In addition, it will give me valuable experience for the future. I promise that my school work won't suffer, as I know you want me to do well in school."

, This tactic works best if your parents like your friends, so try to pick the friends that your parents approve of. See if you can go over to their house certain nights a week to do homework or spend nights on the weekend. Most parents understand you want to spend time with friends.Of course, you need to get an invitation to stay over from your friend and your friend's parents first. If you're already on good terms with them, you can even ask politely if they've allowed you to stay over in the past.
You could ask your parents, "Would it be alright if I spent Tuesday and Thursday evenings at Georgia's house for awhile? We're working on a project for trig together, and I already have permission from her parents." Of course, if you say that, you really should be working on a project together.
If you need to ask your friend's parents, you could say, "Mr. and Mrs. Jones, can I ask you a favor? Georgia and I will be working on a project together for trig, and I was wondering if we could work here two nights a week. I understand completely if you don't want to have me over that much, but I promise we'll work diligently and be quiet." You can also ask your friend to work on her parents.
 You know that your parents like you to take care of things around the house. In fact, you probably already have assigned chores. Make sure you get your chores done on time. On top of that, if you notice something else that needs to be done, pick it up. The reason this step is important is because the more responsibility you take on, the more your parents will trust you to go out on your own. If you can go out on your own, you can avoid them more without actively rejecting their affections at home.You can also show responsibility in other areas, such as making sure you get your homework in on time and trying not to fight with your siblings.You can also be sure to drive safely and not get tickets when you're out and about.
 If you're trying to gain more independence, you need your parents to trust you. That means following their rules and doing what you say you're going to do. It also means trying not to make bad decisions like drinking alcohol or sneaking out late at night.