 Puppies require around-the-clock care and feeding. They need to be fed a puppy-milk substitute every two to three hours. Puppies can be bottle or tube fed. Special puppy bottles are available from vets or pet stores, although bottle feeding can take significantly longer than tube feeding. Tube feeding is generally recommended, although you should have a vet show you the proper technique so that the puppies do not accidentally inhale and choke on the milk substitute.To feed the puppy, make sure that they are positioned with their tummy facing down. Hold the bottle slightly tilted down towards the puppy. The puppy should latch on. Let the puppy suckle until they are full.If the puppy starts to cough or if you notice milk coming out of their nose, stop feeding immediately.
Cow or goat milk is not appropriate for puppies. You should use a store-bought puppy milk substitute.
Some puppies may try to nurse and suckle each other in place of the mother. This may hurt the other puppies. If this happens, you may want to separate the puppies into different whelping boxes., For the first three weeks of life, puppies are not able to move their bowels on their own. The mother will lick them to encourage elimination and urination. In the absence of the mother, you will need to do this for the puppy. After each feeding, wet a cotton ball or take a pre-moistened baby wipe. Massage the anal and genitals. After a minute or two, the puppy should urinate and poop.If the puppy does not respond well to this after a feeding, you might try doing it before a feeding.
Puppies will start to go on their own by three weeks of age.
 Puppies cannot regulate their body temperature. Without their mother’s heat, they may fail to thrive. You can suspend a twenty-five watt lightbulb over one part of their box to keep them warm. Heating pads may also be used to raise the temperature. Wrap the heating pad in towels or sheepskin. Always supervise the puppies while they are on the heating pad.The temperature in the room should be 85 °F (29 °C) for the first two weeks. It can be lowered to 80 °F (27 °C) after two weeks and 75 °F (24 °C) after four weeks.
 The mother is responsible for socializing her puppies. It might help to find another dam who gave birth around the same time as your dam did. Introduce the puppies one at a time to her, and see if she accepts them. If she does, she may be willing to foster the puppies as her own.You might contact breeders in your area or a local shelter to see if they know of a dog that might be an appropriate foster dam.
If you cannot find a foster dam, start introducing the puppy to other people after a few weeks to help the puppies socialize. Encourage them to play with each other as well.

