 Soaking in a warm Sitz bath may help drain Bartholin cysts. To prepare a Sitz bath, fill your bathtub with a few inches of warm water. Then soak in the tub for about 15 minutes. Repeat this process several times each day for a three or four days to make it easier for your cysts to burst and drain.Adding a bit of Epsom salts to the water, along with lavender essential oil, can help to heal the cyst faster and provide relief. You can alternate this with adding a half cup of apple cider vinegar to the bath for added relief.
 Tea tree oil has been found useful for many different skin conditions, so it might help with a sebaceous cyst as well.Mix three drops of tea tree essential oil with seven drops of castor oil. Then, use a cotton ball or Q-tip to apply this mixture directly to your cyst four times per day.
 Aloe vera gel seems to have antibacterial properties and some studies have shown that it promotes wound healing as well.You can apply aloe vera gel directly to your cyst to encourage a cyst to drain and heal. Let the aloe vera gel dry and then rinse the area with warm water. Repeat this process a few times per day.
 Witch hazel is often used to bring down swelling and it also has astringent qualities, so applying witch hazel to a cyst may help to dry it out.Soak a cotton ball or a Q-tip with some witch hazel and dab it onto your cyst. Repeat this process a few time throughout the day.
 Apple cider vinegar is often used to help with skin conditions such as acne, so it may also help to dry out a cyst and promote drainage.You can apply apple cider vinegar directly to the cyst with a cotton ball or Q-tip. Repeat the application a few times per day.


If the vinegar stings or irritates your skin, you can use a mixture of half apple cider vinegar and half water.
 Chamomile is often used to help treat skin conditions, so it may help to reduce inflammation and promote healing of your cyst.Try placing a warm chamomile teabag on your cyst for about five minutes. Repeat this process a few times per day. Drinking the tea may help to clear your lymphatic system and improve healing time.

