 Most of the Hollister girls are toned and in shape. They are not stick thin or very curvy. Most people think of exercising as sweating and huffing and puffing. You can exercise while having fun. Some example are: surfing, dancing, running, walking, swimming or going to the gym. Some people won't even notice that they are exercising.


Another good idea is to make a 20 minute exercise plan. In this plan you could put in crunches, lunges, lifting weights and press ups. Do it around 5 times a week otherwise you will get bulky muscles, and you don't want that.
Don't go on a strict diet but remember not to overload on fatty foods and sugary foods. Remember to drink 8 glasses of water and eat 5 fruits and veggies daily.;
, A good hair color is your natural color, with blond highlights that look like you've been on the beach all day. When you are happy with your hair color, find the style. One way to prevent having un-natural hair is to not straighten you hair too much, if it's curly. Doing this too often will make the color fade away. It's OK once in a while, but not everyday.


Most of the workers have long hair with a few layers and a grown out side bang. Hair shouldn't look over styled, so pretty much stick with your naturally flowing style. Also, you shouldn't put in any product that you don't use everyday.
Try a leave in conditioner, just no mousse, gel, or too much hairspray. You could also french-plait it after a shower and when it's dry take it out. When you put your hair up, put it in a ponytail or plaits.
 The models wear Hollister, but also have things that aren't from Hollister. Get some basic items (from any store) including: tank tops, flip flops or bags. Hollister employees rarely wear any jewelry other than a pair of earrings and sometimes they get away with a watch or a bracelet. Don't overload on too many slogan tees, cardigans are very popular amongst the models working at Hollister. They usually wear a simple white tank underneath or a v neck.
 Try to keep things natural. Hollister models are only allowed to wear mascara and some cover-up if needed. You can wear a light gloss or balm to the lips to keep them moisturized and healthy looking as they do as well; but just keep everything light and natural/ beachy looking.
 Make sure your parents approve before you do. Plus shop at places that sell chic but cheap things as it will be costly.
 Smile and talk to everyone. Don't hold grudges and don't judge people by their appearance. Sometimes the Hollister workers do, but those workers are not liked by everyone. Remember to be confident in what you wear and make sure it's comfortable. Most of the models wear their clothes by comfort and it always looks stylish.
 Hollister is a very diverse working place, and the models that are hired usually have really good skin and fairly good teeth. Drink plenty of water, and stay away from fast foods to improve the appearance of your skin. Also, if you're fairly active, you probably already have fairly good skin. Be sure to brush your teeth after every meal to have nice pearly whites.

