 If you don’t have an office or a study, don’t worry. You don’t need to store all of your books in one room. Feel free to spread your collection throughout your house.


For example, keep all of your cookbooks in the kitchen. , You can display your organized book collection in a variety of ways. You may store your books on shelves or ledges. You can also stack your books in storage cubes.


For a more eclectic look, consider stacking your books on the floor, in a dormant fireplace, or down the edge of your staircase., Once you’ve settled on a location and storage method, you can finally put away your collection. Place the books on your bookshelves or stack the books in a storage cube.


Before you shelve or stack your books, you may want to clean and dust your storage unit.
 For convenience, frequently used books should be readily accessible. This is especially important if children will be using the books.


If children are using the collection, store the books at their level. Instead of a traditional shelf, consider a storage system that would allow them to stack the books. Lastly, you may also want to store the books in the places they will use them the most, such as a playroom or bedroom., If you don’t have the space to display your entire collection, you may need to put some of your books in storage. To protect your books while they’re in boxes, follow these tips:


Stack your books horizontally with the heaviest books on the bottom.
To fill in gaps, insert books vertically. Never place a book spine down.
If possible, try not to stack more than three boxes of books on top of each other., If your collection contains rare books, you may wish to take extra steps to protect these special items. It is good practice to apply all of these suggestions to your entire collection.


Store your rare books out of direct sunlight. In addition to fading the book jacket, the sunlight will slowly deteriorate the book.
Keep your books in their dust jackets.
Before shelving or storing a book, always remove bookmarks and scraps of paper.
Try to store your books at a consistent temperature. Too much humidity will generate mold in your books; too little humidity will leave your books brittle.