 Leadership styles are not something to be tried on like so many suits, to see which fits. Rather, they should be adapted to the particular demands of a situation, the individual requirements of the people involved, and the specific challenges facing the organization. For example, when first beginning to work with a new group, it might be a good idea to adopt a more authoritative, proactive style of leadership. As your group becomes more competent and confident working together, perhaps you can relax and take a more laissez-faire attitude.;
, The team must generate, cull, and pursue new ideas in order to move ahead. Be aware of factors which facilitate the process: provide a conducive environment, facilitate free thinking, value diverse personality traits, and show appreciation for serendipity and spiritual revelations.
  Role models are those who possess the qualities that members of your team would like to have and affects them in a way that makes them want to be better people. Advocate for the group provide lofty, realistic goals. Step forward on the issues that you can solve as a leader.
 Great leaders are not just focused on getting group members to finish tasks on time. Leaders inspire others through true caring for the feelings and concerns of each team member. They connect on a personal level to truly value individual strengths, efforts, and contributions. They show passion about the group achievements which spreads to the team and super-charges the group, enabling the collective to accomplish goals quickly, effectively, and to polish the final result with a shine of perfection.
 Not only must you communicate the goals, effective strategies, and your vision, but you must also lay the ground work for meaningful one-on-one communication between group members. Good leaders should communicate their sincere caring and concern for the individuals verbally and nonverbally. The good leader opens the door to communication when one team member seems closed to another.
 Good leaders have an optimistic attitude that serves as a source of inspiration to the group members. Even when things look unfavourable and your group members start to feel down, try to stay positive that you can do it as a group.
 Using a democratic leadership style leads to greater commitment and more creative on problem-solving to improved productivity of the group. Encourage involvement from group are often referred to as democratic or participative leaders. Welcome new ideas from members.
 Ideas for leadership provide inspirational motivation to encourage and include being genuinely passionate about ideas, though or goals, to help members. Offering recognition, praise and rewards for group/members accomplishments

, A good leader knows how to offer recognition and rewards in accomplishment of the team members. The best ways to help the group feel appreciated and happy of their work. Happy people tend to perform better at work.
 Make sure to pay attention to the things that have been effective in the past lookout for new ways to inspire, motivate and reward group members of their accomplishment.

