 Wear a bikini or a pretty one-piece that makes you feel comfortable and cute. Try a bathing suit in a bright color or pattern you wouldn’t normally wear. Slip into a wetsuit or rash guard, too, if you’re going surfing.


Try a white or neon bathing suit to bring out the tan in your skin. Or go with bright red for that classic Baywatch-inspired beach babe look!Choose a one-piece or a tankini if you want to cover up your tummy. If you have a larger chest, a structured suit with underwire is a great choice; if you have a smaller chest, go for ruffles or embellishment on the top.;
, Slip on a light swimsuit coverup, a flowing patterned dress, or a bright t-shirt, tank, or crop top with shorts. Remember to coordinate colors or patterns with your bathing suit if you can! Top your look with a big sun hat, straw cowboy hat, or cap.


Bring along a warm layer, like a light blanket, a hoodie, or a cute knit poncho, if you’re headed to the beach at night.
 Wear your hair in a loose bun or ponytail, or down and tousled. Get beachy waves if you have straight hair by keeping it in braids before letting it down, or putting wet hair into four small buns before bed and letting your hair loose in the morning.If you have curly hair or an afro, let it loose or try tiny braids.


Try a salt spray product, or make your own by combining sea salt and water in a spray bottle. You can also add coconut oil and leave-in conditioner to the mix to keep hair moisturized.For natural sun-kissed blonde highlights, combine fresh lemon juice or chamomile tea with water in a spray bottle and spray from the middle to ends of your hair before going out in the sun. Do this regularly to start seeing a difference in your hair color., Don’t wear any makeup at all, or stick to a light lip gloss or chapstick. You can wear mascara, but make sure it’s the waterproof variety.


Try a chapstick that has built-in SPF for a soft shine that will also keep your lips from getting sunburned or dried and chapped from the wind.
Use a tinted moisturizer with SPF, which will provide your face with moisture, sun protection, and foundation all in one.
 Choose some simple sunglasses and straw cowboy hat or other sun hat, and go barefoot or in flip-flops or other sandals. Opt for simple, beach-inspired jewelry like a braided necklace, bracelet, or ankle bracelet with a few shells or beads. Bring along a cute and colorful beach bag to carry your towel, sunscreen, and water bottle.
 You will naturally get a glowing tan by spending lots of time on the beach, but do it well by applying plenty of sunscreen, being in the sun for short periods of time, and moisturizing your skin before and after. Use a tinted lotion as well for an extra boost of bronze and shine.


Use a sunscreen that's SPF 15 or higher, apply it 30 minutes before you go outside, and reapply it after every two hours and after every time you get wet or sweaty.Bring along an umbrella and chair as well, so that you can get a break from the sun every once in awhile.

