 Sudden onset mousepox is the acute form of the disease, meaning that it comes on suddenly and forcefully. A mouse with acute mousepox will usually be hunched over, have swelling of the face, and have digestive distress, such as diarrhea.These symptoms will appear and progress very quickly. In many cases the mouse will die quickly from the acute form of this disease.;
, This form of the disease usually begins as a rash all over the mouse's body. Then, eventually, the mouse's body begins to swell and irritation often leads the mouse to chew on its own body and limbs.The rash may lead the mouse to bite at its own skin. Thus, in addition to a rash, its body may be covered in small bite marks.
 If you suspect that your mouse has mousepox, you should separate it from any other mice that you have. Place the potentially non-infected mice in a cage that has fresh water, bedding, and food. Also wash your hands after handling the potentially infected mouse. This will help to limit their exposure to the illness.However, this illness is very contagious, so your other mice may be infected already. Keep an eye on them for signs that they are infected as well.
 If you suspect mousepox, you should contact your veterinarian immediately. This is an illness with a very high mortality rate, so the quicker you get treatment, the less pain and suffering your mouse is likely to go through.Tell the veterinarian why you think your mouse has mousepox. This disease is very, very rare in pet mice, so your veterinarian may suspect that you are dealing with a different disease unless you can describe exactly how your mouse would have contracted the disease.
 If your mouse has the debilitating symptoms associated with the acute and sub-acute types of mousepox, then it needs veterinary care quickly. Take your mouse to its veterinarian immediately or to an emergency pet hospital if your normal veterinary office is not open when you notice the symptoms.


Mousepox is diagnosed based on clinical signs, blood tests, and a history of being exposed to the disease.Tell your veterinarian that you are bringing in your mouse on an emergency basis, so that the veterinary office can be prepared to keep the mouse quarantined.
 If your mouse has come down with the symptoms of mousepox it will likely die. Discuss ways to ease the mouse's suffering while it is still alive with your veterinarian.Supportive care could include euthanasia if your mouse is very, very ill. Sometimes the best thing you can do for a pet is to end their suffering in a respectful way.
 Even if your mouse survives mousepox, it could be a carrier for the disease. This means that a mouse that recovers from the disease should be kept isolated from other mice to avoid the risk of spreading the disease.For example, in laboratory settings, there are strains of mice that are resistant to mousepox. However, these mice can be carriers of the disease and spread it to other non-resistant strains.

