 Before you begin filling out a college application, carefully review all directions. Most applications are similar in that they require the same basic information. However, there may be slight differences from one application to the next. For example, an application for Michigan State may ask you to include three letters or recommendation while an application for University of Michigan may request two. Also, pay attention to a school's preferences regarding online or print applications. While most schools prefer information be turned in online, some schools may still prefer paper applications or want certain parts of the application printed. You want to make sure you're following basic directions correctly before beginning an application., To start, the application will ask for basic contact information. While this is the easiest section to fill out, go slowly. You want to make sure you write everything down accurately.


Include your full name, as written on your birth certificate. Nicknames should not be used. For example, if your name is Angelica but you go by "Angie," write Angelica in the name section.Include a phone number and e-mail address if you have one. You should include an e-mail address that sounds professional. For example, the e-mail address angelica.baker@gmail.com is a better choice than bellabear43@hotmail.com.You'll also need to add your social security number. If you do not have this information, ask your parents. If you have not already committed your social security number to memory, now is a good time to do so. You'll need it for a variety of applications and forms down the road., From here, you'll need to fill out some basic academic information. Once again, go slowly to make sure all information is accurate. You will need to include the following:


ACT/SAT test scoresYour expected graduation dateThe name of your high school, as well as its addressYour current course list, Some college applications want to know what your intended major is. If you're unsure what you plan on studying, do not worry. This section is usually designed to help guide the application board as they review your materials. For example, if you're thinking of studying English your science and math SAT section may be of less importance. You can write down a subject your'e considering studying or at least a field of interest. You may have the option to leave the field blank if you're completely unsure. You can also write down a subject you're considering studying. Remember, nothing is set in stone. You can always change your major later.