 Most people listen in order to prepare a response. You should be listening to your spouse to get a full understanding of what he or she is trying to say. Actively listen and ask questions to better understand. Being a good listener involves the following habits:Turning to face your spouse and making eye contact. Or, sitting side-by-side and occasionally meeting his or her eyes, if full-on eye contact is too intimidating.
Allowing your spouse to get his or her full message across before responding.
Paraphrasing what he or she said to make sure you understood the message. “It seems like what you are trying to say is…”
Asking clarifying questions to clear up any misunderstanding. “So, you are saying that…?”
Adding your own response only after the above has been done.
 Compromise is a key skill necessary for conflict resolution.Early on, you may fall back into your old ways of disagreeing. You can prompt yourself to follow better habits by posting little reminders in your home, car, office, or wallet. These can be Bible verses, quotes, or any phrase that helps. Some examples might include:


“It’s better to bend a little than to break.”
“Compromise equals a win for the relationship.”
“Let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt.” -Colossians 4:6.
 Whether you have been the chief organizer or the chief follower, learning compromise is the key to a happy relationship from here on. Learn how to make suggestions that take into account both parties. Consider such possibilities as:


Agreeing to do an activity that your spouse wants to do this time--provided your spouse does an activity of yours next time. Set a date and stick to it.
Agreeing to do some of the activity that your spouse wants to do but adding in your ideas as well, so that the whole activity is a true combination of both your perspectives and desires.
Sharing tasks that neither enjoys doing by creating task charts that can be flexibly juggled around where needed. For example, vacuuming might be a chore taken on by one spouse most of the time except when they are unwell, away, or really busy. The other spouse can pick up on these occasions on the understanding that the spouse will return to the task when the situation is resolved, rather than the new arrangement turning into the norm. Chore creep after agreement can make the spouse who is lumped with an unfair level of chores very frustrated.
Agreeing to give each other time out from household and parenting duties on a regular basis. This will give both spouses an expectation of free time rather than it being assumed that "someday down the line the other spouse will notice how overworked I am..."

