 If you or a person near you experiences these symptoms, you should seek emergency medical treatment immediately. All of the above signs are strong indicators of a stroke.


You are encouraged to call the emergency medical service near you, even if these symptoms go away quickly or are painless.
Note the time that you first notice symptoms in order to help the medical staff accurately determine treatment.
 Although a medical emergency, the physician will perform a thorough and quick medical history and physical before ordering testing and treatment. Medical tests can include:Computed tomography (CT), which is a type of x-ray imaging that takes a detailed picture of the brain immediately after a suspected stroke.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which will also detect damage to the brain and may be used instead of, or in conjunction with, a CT scan.
Carotid ultrasound, which is painless and will show narrowing of the carotid arteries. This may also be helpful after a TIA when no permanent damage to the brain is expected. If the doctor notices a 70 % blockage, surgery may be necessary to prevent stroke.
Carotid angiography, which uses the insertion of a catheter, dye, and x-rays to visualize the interior of the carotid arteries.
Echocardiogram (EKG), which a doctor can use to evaluate the health of the heart and the presence of known risk factors for stroke.
Blood tests may be ordered to look for low blood sugar, which appears similar in nature to a stroke, and at the ability of your blood to clot, which can indicate a high risk factor for hemorrhagic stroke.
 Although the physical symptoms and outcomes of stroke may be similar, there are different types of strokes. The way that they happen and the subsequent treatments are different. The doctor will determine the type of stroke based on the results of all the testing.


Hemorrhagic stroke:During this type of stroke blood vessels in the brain will rupture or leak blood. The blood spills into or around the brain, depending upon the location of the blood vessel, causing pressure and swelling. This damages the cells and the tissues. Intracerebral is the most common hemorrhagic stroke and happens inside the brain tissue when a blood vessel bursts. Subarachnoid hemorrhage involves bleeding between the brain and the tissue which covers the brain. This is the subarachnoid space.
Ischemic stroke: This is the most common type of stroke and accounts for 83 percent of diagnosed strokes.A blockage in an artery in the brain from a blood clot (also called thrombus) or arterial buildup (atherosclerosis) stops the flow of blood and oxygen to the brain tissue and cells, causing inadequate blood flow (ischemia), resulting in an ischemic stroke., In cases of a hemorrhagic stroke, doctors will work quickly to stop the associated bleeding. These treatments may include:Surgical clipping or endovascular embolization to stop bleeding at the base of an aneurysm, if that was the cause of the stroke.
Surgery to evacuate the blood that has not absorbed into the brain tissue and to relieve the pressure on the brain (usually severe cases).
Surgery to remove an arteriovenous malformation if the AVM is located in an accessible area. Stereotactic radiosurgery is an advanced technique that is minimally invasive and used to remove the AVM.
Intracranial bypass to increase blood flow in some specific cases.
Immediately discontinuing blood thinners, which make it more difficult to stop a bleed in the brain.
Supportive medical care as the blood is reabsorbed by the body, such as it is after a bruise.
 Both medications and medical treatments may be used to stop a stroke or prevent further damage to the brain. Some of these options may include:Tissue plasminogen activators (TPAs) to break up blood clots in the arteries of the brain. The medication is injected into the arm of the person experiencing a stroke from a clot. It must be used within four hours of the start of the stroke; the earlier it is administered, the better the results.
Antiplatelet medications to stop further clotting in the brain and more damage. However, these medications must be taken within forty-eight hours, and they will do even more damage if the person has had a hemorrhagic stroke, so proper diagnosis is crucial.
Carotid endarterectomy or angioplasty if heart disease is present. During this procedure, a surgeon removes the inner lining or the carotid artery if it is blocked with plaque or has become thick and stiff. This will open the carotid vessels and provide more oxygenated blood to the brain and is performed when there is at least 70% blockage in the artery.
Using intra-arterial thrombolysis, during which a surgeon inserts a catheter in the groin and threads it up to the brain where he or she can release medication directly near the areas of the clots that need to be eliminated.

