 If the vehicle is extremely low on fuel or out of gas, add some using a red plastic gas container designed to carry and pour gas into a vehicle’s fuel tank. Gasoline eats through many kinds of plastic, so it is very important you use a container intended to transport it. Screw the nozzle onto the large opening on the can, then open the breather cap on the other side before pouring the gas into your vehicle.The breather cap allows air to travel into the can, permitting the gas to pour out into the vehicle’s fuel tank.
Be careful not to spill gasoline on yourself or the paint.
 A common sign of trouble with your vehicle’s fuel system is jerking or inconsistent power while you are driving at a consistent speed, such as on the highway. If you begin to feel the engine delivering intermittent power despite your foot staying in the same place on the throttle, it may be because of an issue with fuel delivery.If the RPMs also drop with the engine’s power delivery, that indicates a fuel problem.
If the RPMs climb as the power fails to reach the wheels, that is usually a transmission problem instead.
 If the engine stalls as you are driving and struggles to start or run again immediately after, try letting it sit for a few minutes and trying again. If the engine starts up and runs properly after sitting for twenty minutes or so, it could be due to a clogged fuel filter.As sediment builds up in a fuel filter, it can block the passage of fuel into the engine.
Once the filter sits for a few minutes, the sediment may settle, allowing fuel to pass through once again.
 Your vehicle may not be getting fuel because the fuel filter is completely clogged. Replace your fuel filter by locating it beneath the vehicle and disconnecting the fuel lines going in and out of it. Remove the filter from the bracket and install a new one to allow fuel to flow to the engine once again.You can purchase replacement fuel filters at your local auto parts store.
A severely clogged fuel filter can lead to burning out your fuel pump.
 There are a few methods you can use to test your fuel pump to see if it is functioning properly. Be sure to check that it is receiving electrical current, then you may want to do a flow test to check the volume of fuel it is sending to the engine.If the fuel pump is not functioning properly, it will need to be replaced.
Refer to the service manual for your specific vehicle for instructions on replacing the fuel pump.

