 Time flows in a different way when traveling with kids. You will notice that they will give a different meaning to words like “hurry”, ”right now” and “later”. Since time, for them, seems to stretch endlessly, with no break in the monotony, they will feel doubly constricted by the road trip than when feeling bored at home. They will also see absolutely no point in responding straight away to any commands or wishes that you impose on them––since it feels like forever, they'll assume they have forever to comply. Have a little compassion for their perspective––while you can tolerate the distance and lack of breaks, the children find this very novel and rather difficult.;
, In many cases, you won’t be able to move as quickly or visit as many “tourist” sites you’d like to. In other words, be prepared:


To spend quite some time in parks and playgrounds;
To have longer stops while traveling;
And to be accepting of the fact that you won’t be listening to your favorite music or reading your books as much as you’d like.
 At the end of the day, you are the parent and there is a good reason for the road trip. It is okay to expect good behavior regardless of the distance and the reason for traveling. Once children learn that you are not going to tolerate mucking about and making things more challenging that they need to be, and that traveling isn't so bad after all, they'll start learning ways to manage and might even discover that their imagination is limitless. On the other hand, if you pander to every squeal and stop every time the child cries bored, you are creating a backseat driver who knows how to pull all of your strings. Set up expectations from the outset about what is fair in terms of breaks, noise, food time, distance, etc., then ask the children to respect that and do not give in to whining. In fact, the more you ignore whining, the better.
 Allowing the children to have a few nights in one place can be more enjoyable for them than a different room every single night. Moving around during family holidays can be stressful even when everything goes smoothly. When you travel with kids, every time you move there is some packing and unpacking needed and everybody needs to adjust to the new place. On a family vacation with young children, try to stay at least three nights in one place. Where this is not possible, try alternating between long and short stays, so as to avoid the feeling that you’re always on the run.


Teach kids to start packing as young as possible. They can be responsible for a favorite toy to begin with, up to the entire contents of their own bag when they're tweens and teens.
 The best time of the day differs, depending on both the kids' needs and your needs, but generally this time is either during the standard sleeping time for the children, or during the time when they’re in a good mood and most likely to be cooperative. However, if you’re traveling with children across a wide range of different ages, forget about the perfect timing. Chances are they won’t be synchronized anyway and it's better to touch teach everyone how to "go with the flow".
 Select a range of activities and games for the kids, as they may get bored with similar activities. Choose age appropriate travel games for your children and, as much as possible, get them to make the choices and be responsible for the entertainment as soon as they're old enough. Do not teach children who are old enough to work this out for themselves that you're chief entertainment officer––make it clear that this is everyone's role! Some ideas to help you and your kids out include:

, This can help the development of love of reading and writing as well as enjoying a good tale.
 Start a story and when it reaches a dramatic point, have someone else continue.
Play "Scavenger hunt". Have a list of things that need to be found during the trip and have everyone in the car (except the driver) look for them. The nice thing is that, with a bit of imagination, you can adapt this game to your traveling style and the interests of your children.
Play "Do as I’m doing". Invite your kids to imitate you by doing funny things with your face, hands and arms. For example, try patting your nose or rubbing your belly three times, then see if your kids can do the same number of actions. Or create a sequence — nose touch, chin pat, cheek blow — and invite your kids to follow along. Then copy each child as she or he creates her or his own (never mind the funny looks from fellow passengers). You can also play the “head shoulders knees and toes” song.
Mark the Miles: Before starting out on a long travel with kids, make a kids travel game. Hang little numbered tickets above each child’s car seat, one for every hour of the trip. This way they will be able to understand the concept of time and avoid questions like “Are we there yet?”. They will love pulling down the ticket when you ask for ‘Tickets, please!’, and if you want to- every time they hand over the ticket- you can reward their patience with some treats.
Give a challenge: Put some treats into paper bags labeled with an activity––like finding a specific landmark or license plate––that the kids must do before opening the bag.
Make some noise: Why not throw a party in the car? Play freeze dance by blasting the car stereo for a minute while everyone wriggles and boogies in their seat (except the driver!). When the music stops, freeze in place for a while and then start again. As a bonus, the family will burn off some energy. (This may be too distracting for the driver; if so, do not use this suggestion.)
Make everything a surprise: Wrap everything in recycled newspapers or magazines, so that every new toy you hand over is a surprise. It does not matter if they have played with the toy before, unwrapping something is always exciting for a kid.
Ask Who am I?: This is a great travel activity for kids because it requires no gear beyond an active mind. To play a kid-friendly version, think of a simple category, like “fruits”, “animals”, “family”, then pick something you want to be and offer three clues to your identity. For instance, “I’m orange, I’m hard, and rabbits love me. Who am I?” A carrot, of course. You can also pretend to be a member of the family and offer clues like “I’m tall, I’m older than…., and I wear glasses.”
Play with clear tape: Sure, this seems silly, but kids love it. If you’re worried about what they will stick it to, talk to them beforehand if there’s anything you don’t want stuck! The kids can color a little tape with black marker or pen and make a mustache or a beard, adding to their upper lip or chin. Or they can tape long strips across the whole back seat from window to window. They can even tape close some empty plastic container. Just give the kids their own roll of tape to do whatever they want with.
Play with paper clips: Another super simple object that kids old enough to handle small objects safely will love to play with during family travel. They can make chains, necklaces, or open them up to make more structures. They can make a paper clips chain from one side of the car to the other, attaching them to the hand rails, and then hanging their toys from it. There are many fun things they’ll be able to do with paper clips.

Save your songs: Kids love to sing, and if you give them a smart phone or mike, they will love to tape their songs and play them back. Pus you’ll have some great (original) music for your family travel.
Let them guide you: Give your preschooler a (spare) GPS or similar device and let her guide you. She or he will be very happy to play such a vital role in the trip, and she or he will get to practice her or his orientation skills. Make sure that from time to time you ask your child “Are we going on the right way?” or “What do we need to do now?”
Tablets and smartphones: These are great to have with you. Make sure you have some movies the kids like and some fun and educational apps, and use them in emergency situations. If you have YouTube on a phone, you can watch the videos offline (if applicable), too.

