 The mouth swab test can only reliably detect drugs ingested in the last 48 hours.Spending at least 72 hours drug-free is recommended to be on the safe side, especially if you are a heavy user.


Also avoid cough suppressant medication that contains codeine.
Being in the same room as marijuana smoke is unlikely to affect your saliva for longer than 30–45 minutes.;
, Wipe down the sides of your mouth with a cotton swab. This may remove some old oral fluids from earlier drug use. There's no evidence backing up this tactic, but it's possible this has a minor effect.
 In theory, new saliva will have lower concentrations of drug-related chemicals than old. Unfortunately, most of the chemicals get there from your bloodstream, which can't be "flushed out" the same way. Still, there's no harm in trying this for a few days before the test. Stay hydrated by sipping water frequently, so you can produce more saliva. Chew gum to stimulate saliva production when your mouth feels dry.
 Brush for several minutes, and include your tongue and cheeks as well as your teeth. Rinse and spit at the end. This won't work any miracles, but it will ensure that old oral fluids aren't built up in your mouth.
 The more acidic your saliva, the more difficult it is to detect drugs. Multiple studies have shown lower drug test results right after people sucked citrus candies.Believe it or not, some drug testers will give you a citrus candy to stimulate your saliva flow before testing.You may need to suck several before going in to have a major effect.
 Chewing gum or breath mints will change your oral fluids, which can make the mouth swab test less effective.Most people choose the cinnamon or strong mint flavors, but it's unclear which is best.
 If this has any effect, it's small and short-lived.But it's also one of the easiest steps you can take.
 This might remove more drug-related molecules than water. However, alcohol-based mouthwashes can lead to a false positive for alcohol abuse.


There are mouthwash products advertised at people taking drug tests, but one study found no reason these would be more effective than normal mouthwash.