 Choose either white or whole wheat pita, available at most grocery stores. Buy plain pita bread or bread made with seeds, herbs and spices.

Making pita chips is a great way to use up stale pita, so go ahead and use that half-full bag of pita that's been sitting in your pantry. Just make sure it doesn't have any mold on it.
Delicious pita chips can be made from freshly-baked pita bread bought from Greek or other Mediterranean restaurants.;
, You can make plain pita chips to dip in hummus, tzatziki or salsa, but you could also flavor the chips as they're cooking and eat them without dip. Mix up one of these flavor combinations, or create your own:


Rosemary garlic. Use fresh or dried chopped rosemary and freshly minced or dried garlic granules to create this classic flavor.
Chili cayenne. A little cayenne pepper and chili powder goes a long way. This spicy combination would taste great with ranch dip or another cool pairing.
Cinnamon brown sugar. Pita is usually used in savory dishes, but tastes just as good when it's sweet.
 Get out a baking sheet and some olive oil.
 Lay the bread on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to slice it into the shape of chips. Make them as small or large as you like them.

For crispier chips, separate the two pita layers so you have two thin chips instead of one thick one.
For chips that will stand up to thick dips, leave the two layers intact.
 Brush them with olive oil with a basting brush and use your fingers to sprinkle them liberally with your spice mix.

If you're making savory pita chips, sprinkle them with a little salt.
If you want the chips to be extra spicy, turn them over and brush the other side with olive oil, then sprinkle more spices over them.
Don't overlap the chips, since this will cause them to cook unevenly and they may not turn out crispy.
 Let the pita slices cook for 5 minutes, then check to see if they've crisped up into chips.

For extra crispy chips, leave them in for a few minutes longer.
If you don't like chips that have browned, take them out on the early side.
 Place them in a bowl and serve alone or with a dip.