 Low-energy dense foods are ones that have a few calories for a large amount of food. High-energy dense foods are the opposite. They have a large number of calories in a small amount of food. If you reach for low-energy dense foods, you'll feel fuller without adding too many calories to your day.Take vegetables and fruits, for example. They have a high water content, so they make you feel fuller for fewer calories, especially compared to something like oil or butter. For example, you could eat a single pat of butter or two cups of broccoli for the same number of calories.
Make sure to add some fruits or vegetables to your breakfast line up. For instance, you could eat a banana, slices of tomato, or pieces of watermelon.;
, Foods that are rich in fiber take longer for your body to digest, keeping you full for a longer period of time. Trying loading up fiber-rich foods with your breakfast. Fruits, vegetables, and whole grains are particularly high in fiber. Beans are also a good source of fiber.If you're already eating some fruits and vegetables with breakfast, that's great. You could also try adding a piece of 100 percent whole-wheat toast or a bowl of oatmeal for some whole grains.
 Juice has been a staple at many breakfast tables. However, if you're looking to stay full, picking whole fruit is a better option. With juice, you get the nutrients but not the fiber. The fiber in whole fruit will fill you up and help you stay full.However, when you blend whole fruits, such as in a smoothie, you retain the fiber.
 Protein makes you feel full by preventing the release of a hormone called ghrelin, which makes you feel hungry. At breakfast, you should eat about 30 grams of protein to get this effect.Low-fat Greek yogurt and egg whites are both healthy, protein-rich options for breakfast. To get the full 30 grams of protein in your breakfast, you can also try:


One large egg and four ounces of canadian bacon.
One cup of low fat cottage cheese topped with one ounce of nuts and half a cup of berries.
One cup of oatmeal prepared with one and a half cups of soy milk. Top with one and a half ounces of almonds and one tablespoon of hemp seeds.
A tofu scramble made with 3/4 cup tofu and one vegetarian sausage patty. Add an ounce of soy milk on top.
 To really feel full, you should go light on fats because they are high calorie without providing bulk. However, some fat is fine, and when you do reach for fats, healthy fats are best. Look for unsaturated fats for a healthy diet.Unsaturated fats include foods like avocados, olive oil, nuts, seeds, corn oil, safflower oil, and ground flaxseed. Many types of fish are also a great source of unsaturated fat, such as tuna, rainbow trout, mackerel, sardines, and bluefish.
 Many dieters avoid eating breakfast, so they have more calories to eat later. However, doing so can lead to you being so hungry later that you overindulge. You'll often eat enough that you're adding more calories to your overall intake rather than saving some. Plus, eating regularly throughout the day helps keep your blood sugars steady, which in turn can lower your cholesterol.