 Sometimes, vacations are fun to go on with your friends and family and whatnot, but sometimes, taking another person can be too much and can make you lose your mind. Think about this. It's perfectly fine to travel alone, but it may also be fun to go with someone.


If you are going to take someone with you, make sure that this person is not a slob or a lazy person, or it may be difficult to bring them anywhere.






If you are going with someone, make sure you split the price of the hotel between you.





;
, Don't choose the first one you see. Do your research and look at a few hotels. Whichever looks the best, wins. Use these tips to help you pick your hotel:


Set your price range. You do want a decent hotel, but you also want something not over-the-top expensive. Consider how much you are willing to pay.






Look at the services provided. Practically every hotel has basic things in it; a pool, a game room, a sports court, or a restaurant. Decide on what you would like to see or use in your hotel, and go for it.






Consider the rating of the hotel. Five stars on one hotel is usually better than one star on a hotel. But then again, five stars on one hotel doesn't necessarily mean that the hotel with four stars is bad.
 Sometimes, people don't get to pick their room in a hotel, but sometimes they do. Do you want your room close to any particular place? Do you want your hotel room to have a view? Decide on how you would like your room (if you can), and don't be afraid to speak up about it.


Get extra hotel keys. When losing your keys, it can be a disaster.
 It can be easier to find your stuff if you unpack them. Even if you unpack them on the table, it can be easier and less stressful to have to dig through your suitcase to find lipstick. Here are some tips for packing and unpacking.


Before you leave, make sure you pack well. Know how long you are staying for and base it off that. Read How to Pack for a Trip for more information.






Do not unpack in the drawers they will usually give you at the hotel. There may be bed-bugs or other critters hiding in it, and you do not want to take bugs home.
 Sometimes, when you try to sleep at a hotel, it can be quite a challenge, because it's a new environment. Making your bed as comfortable as possible can help you drift to sleep faster and better.
 Whether they are the pool, the game room, the sports court, or the restaurant, try them out. They can help get things off your mind. Make sure they don't cost anything or something, and go for it!


Some other provided services that hotels have are the spa, the running track, a gym, etc. Look these up before you come.






Pack a bathing suit for the pool, even if you don't think you'll be going in.
 Room service is a necessity. Sometimes, it's even free. Let them come and clean up your room or bring you your food so that you have more time to relax or have fun and not worry about it.


Hide any money or valuable possessions just in case.
 Even if you are there for a business meeting, be sure to get out there and do something you haven't yet done before. Try something outside of the box. If you are going to Hershey Park, for example, do the rides and roller coasters, but also go check out the rest of Pennsylvania while you're there.


Don't forget your camera!







, If you happened to get a terrible hotel, stay positive. It can really change everything. Remember this: make the best of it, forget the rest of it.

