 To ready the pound cake for the French toast, use a knife to cut it into slices. Aim for slices that are approximately ½- to ¾-inch (13- to 19-mm) thick.When you cut the cake, you should wind up with approximately 8 to 12 slices.
If you’re in a hurry, you can find pre-made pound cake that’s already cut into slices so it’s ready for turning into French toast.;
, Crack 2 eggs into a large mixing bowl. Use a whisk or fork to lightly beat the eggs until the eggs and yolks are mostly combined.If you’re watching your cholesterol, you can use an egg substitute product in place of the eggs.
 Once the eggs are slightly beaten, add ¾ cup (177 ml) of milk, ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of almond extract, ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of vanilla, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of ground cinnamon, and ⅛ teaspoon (.7 g) of salt. Whisk the mixture until the ingredients are fully combined.If you’d like to add other spices to the batter, such as ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of ground nutmeg, ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) of ginger, and/or ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) of ground cloves, you can customize the recipe to suite your tastes.
 Heat a large pan or skillet on medium on your stove top. When the pan is hot, add 3 tablespoons of butter or margarine. Allow it to melt completely, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.Watch the butter or margarine closely as it melts to ensure that it doesn’t burn.
 While the butter is melting, starting coating the pound cake with the batter. Dip the slices in the bowl with the egg mixture, making sure to coat both sides and the edges completely.Allow the excess batter to drip off the pound cake slices back into the bowl before placing them in the frying pan. You can shake them slightly to help the process.
 Once the pound cake slices are coated in the batter, place them in the frying pan. Fry the pieces for 1 to 3 minutes on each side or until they are golden brown.Depending on the size of your frying pan or skillet, you’ll likely have to fry your French toast in several batches.
 When the pound cake slices are finished frying, remove them from the pan with a spatula. Place them on a plate, and serve with your favorite toppings.For a simple topping, dust the pound cake French toast lightly with powdered sugar.
Maple syrup is another classic topping for French toast.
Make the pound cake French toast even more delicious by topping it with whipped cream and sliced fruit, such as strawberries or bananas.
 When you’re finished mixing up the batter for the French toast, place the pound cake slices side-by-side in a baking dish. When the slices are all flat in the dish, use a knife to lightly butter the top of each slice.You can substitute margarine if you prefer, but butter offers the best flavor.
 After you’ve buttered the pound cake slices, pour the egg mixture over them. Make sure to cover all of the slices, and then place the baking dish in the refrigerator to chill for 8 hours or overnight.Before placing the baking dish in the refrigerator, it’s a good idea to tilt it back and forth several times to ensure that the batter is spread throughout the dish to completely coat the pound cake.
You may want to cover the baking dish with plastic wrap before placing it in the refrigerator.
 To make sure that the oven is hot enough to bake for the French toast, preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). Next, coat a large cookie sheet with non-stick cooking spray to grease it.If you prefer, you can grease the cookie sheet with butter.
 When the pound cake slices have chilled properly in the batter, remove them from the baking dish with a spatula. Transfer them to the cookie sheet, and bake them for 20 to 25 minutes or until golden brown., When the French toast is done baking, remove the cookie sheet from the oven. Allow it to cool for several minutes before placing it on a plate for serving. You can top the pound cake French toast with maple syrup, powdered sugar, cinnamon sugar, or your favorite toppingsConsider warming up your favorite jam or preserves to pour over the French toast.
