 There are many weight-loss drugs that can only be obtain from a doctor. While you are taking these drugs you will be carefully supervised by your doctor. This will ensure that you taking the drug correctly. If any side effects or complications do occur, you and your doctor can handle them quickly and safely. Do not use these drugs without the advice or supervision of a doctor. While visiting your doctor, you should let them know:


Your medical history
Your family’s medical history
Any allergies you have to medications
What other medications you are currently taking
How else you are handling your weight loss (exercise, diet, etc.);
, Many prescription weight-loss drugs cannot be used by people with certain conditions. While these can vary from drug to drug, you should always inform your doctor of any medical conditions to prevent deadly side effects. Be sure to tell them if you:


Have a personal or family history of heart disease
Have high blood pressure
Suffer from diabetes
Are pregnant
Smoke cigarettes

, There are six types of prescription drugs approved by the FDA for weight loss. Each of these has different effects on the body as well as different strengths and risks. You can talk to your doctor about which of these will be most effective for your weight, health, and lifestyle. These drugs are all used in combination with a healthy diet.



Phentermine products: These suppress your appetite by blocking the chemicals in your brain that make you feel hungry. You should not take them if you have high blood pressure, glaucoma, an overactive thyroid, or if you have had a stroke. Brands include Adipex-P or Suprenza.Orlistat: This prevents some fat from being absorbed by your body. Do not take orlistat if you have gallbladder problems or if you have chronic malabsorption syndrome. People with kidney or liver problems may also be at risk. Brands include Xenical or Alli.Orlistat also affects the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, so be sure to discuss this problem with your physician or dietitian. While Alli may be bought over-the-counter without a prescription, you should still consult your doctor first.Lorcaserin Hydrochloride: This drug will suppress your appetite.People with heart, kidney, or liver disease or who have diabetes may be at risk while taking this. Brands include Belviq.Naltrexone HCI with bupropion HCI: This combination of two medications is sold under the name Contrave. Bupropion is typically used to treat depression, and Naltrexone is often used to help people with addiction problems. Both can be used to suppress appetite.Phentermine-topiramate ER: Sold under the name Qsymia, this drug is a combination of an appetite suppressant (phentermine) and an anti-seizure drug (topiramate). People with heart problems, glaucoma, or thyroid issues should not take this drug.It may also be able to help with migraines.Liraglutide: This is an injection that is sometimes used to help treat type II diabetes. The weight loss version is known as Saxenda. It can help suppress appetite. If you have thyroid problems, you should not take this., Be aware that no matter what medication you take, there is a chance of side effects. Some of these side effects are mild; others require immediate medical care. Talk to your doctor before you begin so that you know what to look out for. Some common side effects include:Nervousness or anxiety
Irritability
Headaches
Dry mouth
Nausea
Constipation
Abdominal pain
Diarrhea
Changes in stool color or consistency

