 Rules are key for good classroom management. They create behavioral expectations that you can refer to throughout the year. Your rules must be short, simple, comprehensive, enforceable, clear to the students, and meaningful to you. You should have no more than five classroom rules that cover nearly all possible misbehaviors.To come up with a set of rules, try making a list of all the possible problematic behaviors that can occur in the classroom. After making that list, create three to five short rules that can address all the behaviors on your list.Write the rules on a large piece of paper and hang them in a visible place in the room.
For example, a good set of rules looks like:

Listen and follow directions.
Raise your hand to speak or leave your seat.
Keep your body to yourself.
Respect the classroom and the teacher.
Participate and do your best.
 Once you have a set of rules, you must create consequences for students who break the rules. This is important, because students will test you and break rules left and right if no consequences are given. Talk to other teachers and administrators about appropriate consequences for the students at your school. Also consider reaching out to parents to see what kinds of consequences work at home. Talking to people who know your students well can help you figure out what kinds of things they will respond to.


Consequences should be meaningful to students. If, for example, students enjoy being sent out of the classroom, this may not be a good consequence for regularly disrupting the class.
Remember to match the consequence to the severity of the rule. Consequences might be a time-out, a call home, a zero for the day, detention, extra homework, or a quiz.
 The key to managing a classroom is to always be consistent in enforcing rules. This is where most teachers run into problems. It is easy to let small misbehaviors slide, but not enforcing your rules will lead to a chaotic classroom in a few months and a stressful school year. You must enforce rules from the first day and every single day afterward. It is hard, but you must be confident that consistency makes for a better learning environment. , Sometimes things can get quite out of hand in a classroom. Students can become emotional or disrespectful pretty quickly. If need be, take a student outside of the classroom and talk privately with them.


For example, a student may look very tired and sad when they arrive. You, and other students, might notice that something is not right with them, but you don’t want to draw all the attention to this one student. Instead, talk to the student outside and find out what’s going on. It might be appropriate to send them to a guidance counselor or to let them get some water before returning to the classroom.
 This doesn’t always mean speaking loudly or firmly. Rather, strong voice involves using your voice to manage student behavior effectively. Sometimes this means using a firm and commanding tone, and other times it means lowering your volume to make it clear that you expect a quiet classroom.


Address student interruptions by self-interrupting (or interrupting the speaker). If you are talking and a student interrupts or causes a distraction, stop speaking. Keep your body very still and silent until the student is prepared to listen again. Do this early and often before disruptive behavior becomes a pattern., Off-task behavior is a common classroom management issue. Students use their cell phones, fidget under their desks, whisper to their friends, and so on. Stopping your lesson to chastise one student takes time and may draw unnecessary attention to something other than your learning. Instead, keep going with your lesson and casually walk toward the student that is off task. Your presence at their desk may be enough to get them to put the cellphone away. If not, tap on their desk or give them a serious look.


Remember that the idea is to draw as little attention as possible to the misbehavior. If a tap on the desk doesn’t work, you can quietly tell the student to get on task and move on.
 If students become so disruptive that the learning environment is compromised, you may need to remove the disruptive student. Students who get physically violent must be immediately removed in a calm and safe manner. Although difficult students can cause anxiety, and even fear, try to remain calm and confident that the issue will be resolved.


Extremely disruptive students are a challenge. You must be very firm and clear in giving them instructions for exactly what you need them to do. For example, “Stand up. Pick up your bags. Walk to the hallway. Wait for me out there.” This may be a time for you to talk privately and find out if the appropriate next step is to call an administrator, let the student cool down, give them a different task, or call home.
If students become violent you must act immediately. Call or send a student to get an administrator or security guard. Do not leave the room. You are the adult in charge, and you should not leave students alone in a potentially dangerous classroom. Do not get in the middle of student fights or aggressive episodes. Be sure to follow your school's emergency protocol in this type of situation.
 Your student’s parents know them much better than you do. Receptive parents can be helpful when it comes to managing student behavior. Most parents generally don’t want to hear that their child is misbehaving in school, and it is certainly not the first phone call they want to get from you. If possible, try to make contact with parents to say something positive before problems arise. Hopefully they will be more receptive to your phone calls and will talk to their child about whatever problems you raise.


Talking to parents is not always easy. You want parents to be on your side, but it may be difficult if they get defensive or question you when you critique their child. Remember to be friendly and confident when you speak to parents. Tell them clear facts--not your interpretation--about what is going on with their child. Prepare to talk about solutions and ask them for support in making their child successful.