 Daffodils are very adept at making the energy they need through photosynthesis (the absorption of sunlight). It’s important not to cut the foliage back after flowering as this is the main period when the plants are taking in energy via their leaves. Let the foliage wither away naturally.


Roughly eight weeks after flowering has finished (usually mid summer) the foliage should be brown and shriveled. It should be okay to cut it back at this time.
Daffodils that have lots of foliage but no flowers may have been over supplied with nitrogen. To correct this, use a fertilizer with more phosphorus next spring.
 Some gardeners find that their plants have lots of leaves but no flowers. One reason that your daffodils may be underperforming is a lack of water. If your area experiences a dry spring, try watering your daffodils each time the ground is dry around the plant.


However, don’t be tempted to overwater as this can cause the bulbs to rot—the ground should not be perpetually wet.
 Daffodils also fail to flourish if they aren’t planted deeply enough. If you didn’t plant the bulbs at a depth of at least two or three times their own height (usually 4 to 6 inches deep) and the width of two bulbs apart, then this may be a problem.


Failure to flower may also indicate the bulbs need dividing; this is more likely in a daffodil bed that’s been blooming for several years.
 Daffodils may also fail to flower if they haven’t had a proper chill over the winter months, or if you’ve planted at the wrong time. Most nursery bulbs are supplied pre-chilled but if this wasn’t the case, and you planted late in the year, they may fail to flower in the first year.


You may have better luck the following year after they’ve experienced the winter chill. You can also try planting pre-chilled bulbs next time.
 If the bulbs are in an area where puddles form after rainfall and don’t easily drain away, you may have a drainage problem. Consider lifting the bulbs and incorporating plenty of grit or horticultural matter such as compost into the ground to improve drainage. You can also consider raised-bed gardening, which also improves drainage., Narcissus fly can be another reason the daffodils don’t flourish. Regular hoeing around the plant can help eliminate these pests. Make sure there are no cracks in the soil that will allow the larvae to climb in.

