 Don't put on airs/or be sarcastic or bitter. Be calm and pleasant. "Get the run of the place!" Instead of running from them: Say,"Good one! You know how to do it up right!";
, Laugh a little! Say,"That's is why I l-o-v-e you guys! All this f-u-n!"



Don't act bad or mad at their practical jokes or cut-downs. (Also, laugh at yourself when you make a mistake.)

,
Ask, "Who are we doing/joking next?" "Whose turn is it?" Say,"Let's plan something! I have some real good ideas!" (Then drop it. Don't get creepy, by blaming the wrong person! Act unaffected!)


Ask, "What can we do for good-clean fun -- but nothing nasty!"


, Avoid threats of destruction or harm -- making it worse. Do not make veiled threats, such as: "I don't get mad; I get even!" or "Turnabout is fair-play!" or "Paybacks are heck!" Or, then they may do stuff and blame all of their tricks on you, if you make threats against everybody.
 If you live in an apartment, go to your bedroom and listen to inspiring music, get absorbed in a TV show, use the extra energy to exercise or play video games to wind down.


Do not go on Facebook or Myspace, unless you are just listening to music, playing games, or watching videos. Often fights and disputes can be continued on social networking sites.
 Sometimes your re-acting/acting-out, showing anger or displaying hurt feelings will just be fun/and a challenge.


Don't give an excuse to your roommates to stir it up even more.
 Get some fresh air; go take a walk down the halls, or up and down stairways to cool off.
 It may be calming to sit in/or drive your car or run, jog or walk off that energy.


If you are in the dorms, exit your dorm. There are usually some activities and a reading/study area, a music listening room, TV viewing room, pool, bowling, game-room/pool tables and a snack bar in the campus student center.
 Enjoy studying or browsing in the college library (find a place out of easy view), upstairs, in the math section or some place they won't go.
 They may consider an apartment or roommate change or reevaluation if needed.
,