 Observe your daughter’s chest area beginning around the age of 9 or 10. This is usually the time that girls start larche, or the process of developing breasts. Ask your daughter if she’s felt nickel-sized lumps under each breast called “breast buds” or noticed any pain or tenderness in her chest. discuss them with her.Be aware that each breast bud can develop at different rates, which is completely normal.;
, Girls usually start puberty between ages 8 and 13. This includes developing breast, but there are other physical and emotional signs. Recognizing these can indicate that your daughter is going through puberty and may be ready to buy her first bra.Watch for the following signs your daughter is going through puberty:Change in body shape
Development of body hair
Changing behaviors and emotions

, If you don’t notice any signs of breast development or your daughter is shy with you, schedule an appointment with her doctor. Let the doctor know in advance why you’re visiting. Allow your doctor to see the doctor by herself and have the doctor discuss her development with you either by phone or in a separate meeting. This can inform you if your daughter needs a bra or other support while giving her some independence with her body., Approach your daughter gently at a time when just the two of you are together. Broach the subject of getting a bra with your daughter by asking questions not directed at her. This can let you know whether or not your daughter is comfortable with the idea of getting her first bra.For example, “Emmeline, I noticed that Liv was wearing a sports bra at practice the other day. Is that something you’re interested in?” Your daughter’s answer can clue you in to if she’s ready for a bra.
 Let your daughter know you are always around if she has questions about her changing body. Be honest about issues of breast health and whether it’s necessary to wear a bra. Being open to discussion about breast development with your daughter can make it easier to buy her first bra., Notice if your daughter’s friends are wearing bras. Peer pressure can cause many girls may wear bras, which can range from sports bras to padded confections, before they develop. Take your daughter’s request to get a bra into consideration based not only on physical factors, but also emotional ones. It can be pretty traumatizing for a young girl to not wear a bra when others do.Keep in mind that your daughter may be changing for gym class or going to sleepovers and may not want to be different than her friends.
 After you’ve discussed the pros and cons of getting a bra, let you daughter know it’s her choice of whether to get a bra or not. Tell her you’ll support her in any decision she makes and even help her find a suitable bra she likes. Giving your daughter the decision can give her a measure of control over her ever changing body.For example, “Hey Josephine, the decision is up to you. We can make a fun day of it and get you your first bra. But if you want to wait, that’s totally ok, too. Just let me know whenever you’re ready.”

, Avoid telling your entire family that you’re going to shop for a bra with your daughter. Although this may be a happy time for her, she may feel embarrassed if other people know she’s developing. It also demonstrates that she can trust you if she has questions about her body.

