 The classic symptom of heartburn is a burning sensation in your throat and/or chest, but you may have other symptoms along with this one such as increased burping, nausea, or even vomiting. Identify them and write them down. Keep a record of your symptoms over the course of a few weeks to identify patterns in your heartburn episodes.;
, The severity of the pain can be an indicator that it is something more concerning than heartburn. For example, a heart attack (myocardial infarction) may feel like a very severe heartburn. If you are still unsure about whether or not your symptoms warrant a visit to the doctor, consider some of the following questions:


Is the pain dull or sharp? If the pain is dull, then it is more likely that it is just heartburn. If the pain is sharp, then you should seek medical attention right away.
Is the pain constant or is it intermittent? If the pain is intermittent, then it is more likely to be heartburn. If the pain is constant, then you should seek medical attention right away.Does the pain stay on one place or does it radiate to another part of the body, like the shoulders or the lower jaw?

If you are short of breath, dizzy, and sweaty; or if the pain radiates to your shoulders, arms, back, neck, or jaw, call 911 or go to an emergency room immediately. You may be having a heart attack.
 Some medications can cause acid reflux or heartburn. If you are experiencing frequent, ongoing heartburn and you suspect that the medications are the cause, talk with your physician about the possibility of replacing them. Do not stop taking your prescription medications without talking to your doctor first. Some of the medication types that can cause heartburn include:Antidepressants
Antianxiety medications
Antibiotics
High blood pressure medications
Nitroglycerin
Osteoporosis medications
Pain relievers

, Occasional heartburn that resolves on its own after a short period of time does not warrant a visit to the doctor. However, if you experience heartburn several times a week for more than two weeks, it is a good idea to get a medical check-up, in order to rule out any underlying causes and to get effective treatment. Some of the conditions that can contribute to severe or prolonged heartburn symptoms include:


Inflammation of the esophagus: Also known as "esophagitis," this can cause bleeding in both what is coughed or vomited up, and in your stools.
Esophageal ulcers: These are open sores on the lining of the esophagus. Repeated reflux can cause these and they cause a pain similar to heartburn.
Narrowing of the esophagus: This makes swallowing food difficult, and you can experience shortness of breath and wheezing. In this case, you may also experience chest pain, sore throat, hoarseness, excessive salivation, a sensation of having a lump in your throat (globus sensation), and sinusitis.
Barrett's esophagus: Constant heartburn puts you at risk of developing Barrett's esophagus. This is the development of abnormal pre-cancerous cells which may in turn develop into esophageal cancer. If the doctor discovers this, you will need to have an endoscopic examination every 2 to 3 years to ensure that it hasn't turned cancerous.Peptic ulcer disease: These are painful open sores or ulcers in the lining of the stomach or the duodenum, the upper part of the small intestine.Gastritis: This is an inflammation of the stomach lining.H. Pylori infection: This is a stomach infection caused by the H. Pylori bacteria. It can be treated with antibiotics.