 Do some research about the numerous different types of Theobroma Bicolor to pick the best one for your environment. Take into account temperature fluctuations, soil quality and density, rainfall, wind protection, and altitude. If you purchase a pod, remove a seed from the pod to plant - do not plant the entire pod. Leave as much of the pulp on the seed as you can as that is food for the seed.;
, Farmers of Theobroma Bicolor vary slightly in how they start their trees. Some make slight indentations into the soil and cover the seed in soil, while some bury their seeds up to 10 centimetres (4 inches) into the ground. The seed should be placed in an area that satisfies all of its needs (see Step 4, Part 2). Remember that Theobroma Bicolor is very easily diseased and most farmers lose between 30-100% of their yearly crop due to disease. In other words, having multiple trees isolated from each other is best to minimize risk.
 The first year of the tree's life is the hardest to get through. There is little that you can do as these trees typically suffice off of their environment alone. All you can do is keep other vegetation at least 1 metre (40 inches) away from the tree.
 For the first 5 years, floral buds are removed so that the tree focuses on growth not seed production to maximise output. Remember to maintain a 1 metre (40 inch) buffer zone between the furthest extent of the tree and other vegetation and to add shade if shading-plants die.
 After the first 5 years, do not alter the buds and allow them to grow. Around 6 months after the buds' appearance, the fruit will fall to the ground when ripe. Collecting fallen pods is the most efficient way to harvest the fruit.
 Theobroma Bicolor is extremely susceptible to diseases. A diseased tree must be isolated immediately to limit or, ideally, prevent the spread of the disease further. Resourceful farmers typically isolate the tree and all immediately surrounding trees and a second barrier of two-trees around the original barrier. This barrier is often 2-3 metres (79-118 inches) taller than the tallest tree and is made of a plastic tarp. If, at any time, tree-zero (first infected tree) dies, most farmers burn all of the trees in the primary isolation. After the fire has died in primary isolation, all of the trees in secondary isolation are burned. This is extreme but, due to the susceptibility of Theobroma Bicolor to disease, it is needed.

