 “Ghosting” takes avoidance to a higher level and cuts your friend out of your life suddenly and completely. It is quick and immediate. But, it’s also cruel behavior that many people consider abusive and can lead to anger and resentment. Consider it a last resort after having tried a more direct tactic or if your friend is abusive or threatening. Before taking the plunge, also be sure that you are ready to deal with the potential blowback.To ghost your toxic friend, you’ll need to stop interacting socially. This not only means avoiding the friend but also, perhaps, ignoring him completely in an accidental encounter — in other words, the silent treatment. Keep in mind that this can be hard to do, especially at school.
Ghosting hurts and leaves no opportunity for explanations or closure — you may regret your actions in the future.However, don’t hesitate to cut a friend out of your life immediately if he is controlling and abusive toward you. You have no reason to maintain contact with such a person.

Signs of an abusive friendship include someone who insults and puts you down in front of others, a person who wants to dominate you or make you feel ashamed, or uses emotional manipulation tactics like the "silent treatment" or social isolation to get you to behave in a way he wants., Ghosting requires you to cut off every possible kind of contact with your toxic friend, not just personal interaction. This means phones, texts, and social media. You’re not just hard to reach — you’re completely unreachable. To do this, set up your phone to block your friend’s number, calls, and messages.


Blocking a phone number will depend on what kind of phone you have. There are different methods for Android phones, iPhones, Blackberries, and for different service providers.Check your phone provider’s website to see how you can block numbers. Or, try calling the service provider’s customer help telephone number.
 Disengage entirely with your toxic friend by cutting her out of your online presence, too. Don’t leave her any opening to have a continued presence in your life or to bully, manipulate, or guilt you. In other words, purge her from all of your electronic contacts.You can start by defriending and possibly blocking your toxic friend on Facebook and by unfollowing her on Instagram and Twitter.
You may also need to block your former friend’s email addresses to stop that form of communication. In a worse scenario, you may also need to close and replace your own email accounts.

