 You have to find that teacher who is not too strict, maybe a little oblivious, and forgiving. Get on his good side at the beginning of the year so he's more likely to trust you when you come to him with excuses later. Laugh at your teacher's corny jokes and smile and try to be a good student for the most part.


Notice how your teacher reacts when other students forget their homework to gauge how much you can get away with.
Notice if your teacher collects homework or usually just walks around and glances at your worksheet to make sure you did it.
Try to get an idea of what your teacher likes. If he has pictures of his cat everywhere, you may be able to use that to your advantage later by telling him your cat is very sick or had to be put down and you were too devastated to finish the assignment.
Remember that your teacher probably got into teaching because he is passionate about his subject. Participate in class as much as possible: if he believes you love history, too, he's probably more likely to be sympathetic later.
Find out how much homework counts toward your final grade. If homework only accounts for 20% of your grade and you ace all your tests, projects, and class participation, you might be able to get by without doing homework and still get a decent grade.;
, Say your computer or internet wasn't working, or your printer broke. Be aware that this is a common and pretty flimsy excuse, so your teacher may not buy it.


If your teacher expects you to email her your assignment, ask her the next day if she got your email. When she says she didn't, act confused and explain that you definitely emailed her and that you can't believe it didn't go through. She probably can't check to see if you are lying and will probably give you an extension.
 Try to pick something your teacher won't ask about too much or won't want to call your family to verify. Say your mom and dad are having marital problems. Get teary-eyed if you can do that on command.


Claim the death of a family member. Make it someone close enough that it would affect you, but not so close that the teacher will find out about it. A great aunt or uncle works as they tend to be older. There is also no limit on the amount of great aunts and uncles you have, whereas with grandparents there is a limited number of times you can use that excuse. Plus, you don't want to tempt karma by saying your grandma died unexpectedly.
Say that you are having a private family issue and you don't feel comfortable talking about it, but you can't do the homework.
Tell your teacher your dog ran away and you were looking for her all night and you were so worried you couldn't do your homework.
 Say you thought the assignment was due the next day or you wrote it down wrong. When the teacher says he is collecting your work, look worried and ask your classmates, "What homework?!"


Tell the teacher you were in the bathroom when he assigned the work and you completely missed that you had homework.
 You can either fake sick to stay home from school completely, or just go to the nurse's office before class and tell her you have a terrible stomach ache, headache or menstrual cramps if you are a girl. Ask if you can lay down for the period.


This works best if you are somebody who rarely gets sick(maybe once or twice a year) then you will be more trustworthy if you appear sick.
 Discuss with her that your study habits aren't great and that you feel overwhelmed by the amount of work you are getting. The guidance counselor will offer you advice about how to manage your homework for the future, and can also speak to your teacher to extend the due date.
 Don't be cocky or blow your teacher off. Go to him before the class begins and tell him you simply couldn't get it done. Tell him you had too much work, you had to study for a huge exam, you were exhausted or feeling unwell, or you didn't understand the assignment. Show that you don't feel good about not doing your homework. He may give you an extension or tell you not to worry about it this time.


If you do this too often your teacher will stop being sympathetic, so make sure it only happens once or twice.

