 Though celebrity doctors, fad workout coaches, and glamor magazines may tell you differently, there is no way to lose fat from just one part of your body. This fact has been definitively proven by science — for instance, one study found that tennis players (who typically use one arm more than the other) have the same amount of fat on both arms.This means that exercising your thighs won't cause you to lose weight only there — you lose weight from your entire body, not from one part at a time.


There are, however, things you can do to make your thighs more appealing: you can tone your thigh muscles with exercise or you can lose weight from your entire body (including your thighs). In this section, we'll explore ways to do each.
 If you've ever met long-distance runners, you may have noticed that they tend to have long, slim bodies and muscly (but thin) legs. In general, long, low-intensity cardio exercise (like running) is a great way to start slimming down all over and improve your leg muscle tone. While other leg exercises can actually add bulk, long running sessions generally reduce bulk by causing you to lose fat over time and build toned muscles.Running for about 45 minutes to an hour four or more times per week should begin to produce noticeable results within about a month or so. However, if you're not able to run for this long at first, just run for as long as you can in a single session and aim to increase the length of time you run for by one minute each time. Eventually, you'll reach an optimal level of cardio ability.
Try to avoid cardio exercises that involve shorter, higher-intensity workouts. For example, cycling (especially at a stationary machine with added resistance) will definitely burn calories, but it can also make your thigh muscles bigger, rather than more toned and compact., While it can be useful for some, as noted above, resistance exercises (like weightlifting) may not always be the best choice for people looking to slim their thighs. The problem with resistance training is that it can increase the size of your thigh muscles. If this isn't paired with a loss in fat (and it's worth mentioning that resistance training isn't as effective at burning fat as running is), your thighs are likely to get bigger. However, if you're willing to pair your resistance exercises with cardio or a weight-loss diet to lose fat, you can achieve great results. Below is a short list of thigh-targeting exercises you may want to consider:


Squats
Deadlifts
Lunges
Leg lifts

, If you're doing resistance exercises, it's not a wise idea just to focus on your thigh muscles. This can give you an "unbalanced" look — for instance, strong and toned on the fronts of your legs, flabby on the back. For all-around good-looking legs, you'll also want target, at the very least, your gluteals, hamstrings, and important core groups like your hips and abs. This will have the effect of building toned muscle mass all over your lower body, not just in your thighs.


You may also want to target your calves — building the muscles in your lower leg can make the muscles in your upper leg look smaller by comparison.
 No matter how hard you work for them, it's impossible to get toned thighs overnight. Any sort of cardio or muscle-building routine will take time to produce results. Don't give up! Stick to your workout plan, continually challenge yourself, push yourself to work a little harder each time, and you will see major improvement in the long-term.If you find it hard to motivate yourself to exercise, try making it part of your routine. Exercising at the same time every day should cause you to form a habit — eventually, it may feel odd not to exercise. Note, however, that it can longer than the typically-cited 21 days for a true habit to form.