 Everybody should know by now that no two things go together more naturally than Mexican food and black beans. If you don’t know, however, or you need to be reminded, make room for a heaping serving of black beans the next time you have a burrito, tostada or quesadilla. The chemistry between the beans and the zesty veggies and gooey cheese is undeniable.For vegetarians and vegans (or quick dinners), try swapping out the usual meats for black beans in tacos or enchiladas.Black beans can be served in or alongside almost any Mexican-inspired recipe imaginable.
 Use black beans to supplement the standard kidney and pinto bean varieties in a pot of white chicken chili or tortilla soup. The presentation of the dish will benefit from the mixture of colors, while you'll benefit from the added nutritive value. Black beans can also come in handy when you find yourself one can short of white or red beans before dinnertime.Your heart and waistline will benefit, as well, since black beans are among the best you can choose.These types of foods store well, making them great comfort food during the long winter months.
 Usually, omelettes include things like spinach, bell peppers and mushrooms. Tomorrow’s breakfast, however, might feature a unique mingling of black beans with sun-dried tomatoes, feta cheese, scallions and fresh parsley. No matter what else you put in your omelette, you can chow down without guilt knowing that you’re nourishing your body.Simply drop in a small handful of cooked black beans (make sure they’re completely drained) before the eggs have begun to set up.
Come up with new combinations of ingredients every morning to keep your daily serving of eggs from getting boring., Black beans have long been used as a beef substitute that’s agreeable to even the pickiest former carnivores. When ground and molded into patties, black beans have a firm, meaty consistency and hold seasonings well. Bean burgers can even be tossed on the grill to seal in that charbroiled taste that true burger lovers couldn’t bear to go without.Breadcrumbs can be used to bind black bean burger patties, giving them a richer texture and preventing them from crumbling when cooked.
Pile on leaf lettuce, juicy ripe tomato slices and Vidalia onion rings for that timeless burger presentation, or get creative with your toppings using ingredients like cool cucumber relish, pickled sweet peppers and dill.