 You can buy health insurance for your pet. This is a great option if you have an older animal or one with severe or chronic injury or illness. It's also a great way to be proactive when you adopt a new pet.Look at different plans. Just like health insurance for people, there are a variety of options for animals.
You can get a plan that will cover basic emergencies, like a sudden injury. You can also get more comprehensive plans that will cover all types of care.
Ask your vet if there is a particular company that is easy to work with. You also want to make sure that your vet accepts the insurance you choose.;
, Maybe your pet has recently become ill or injured. Unplanned vet bills can add up quickly, and be really stressful. Your local animal shelter might have ways to help.Call your shelter and ask about the type of health care they provide. Many shelters have onsite clinics that offer care that is more affordable than the average veterinarian.
Your shelter will have a lot of information about local resources. If they don't have a clinic onsite, ask if they have a recommendation for one nearby.
Some shelters also have loan or grant programs that can help defray medical costs. Ask for information about these types of options.
 In addition to your local shelter, you might be able to find other organizations that can help you. There are non-profit and charitable organizations that are dedicated to helping pet owners care for their pet. Do some research to find one that could work for you.The Humane Society is a great place to start. Humanesociety.org offers a state-by-state listing of affordable vet care.
The Humane Society can also help you find the right fit for your particular animal. For example, there are breed-specific foundations such as Corgi Aid and Labrador Lifeline.
Head to your local library. The reference librarian can help you search for additional non-profits that might be able to help your pet.
 You might find that you simply need more money to pay for vet bills, and you need it quickly. Take steps to find access to additional funds. Consider getting a line of credit.Care Credit is a credit plan specifically for medical needs, including your pet's. Many vets accept Care Credit.Having some flexible credit is a good way to avoid getting behind on your pet's bills. Just make sure to read all of the terms and conditions.
Try fundraising. Use a site such as Give Forward to raise money for your pet's medical needs.