 There are many areas ghostwriters can write in; some examples are listed below. Decide which areas interest you.


Autobiographies and memoirs of famous, interesting or inspiring people
Self-help books, either with a pop psychology or spiritual slant
Success in business books
Books that establish the credited author as a subject-matter expert;
, Many ghostwriters are not great writers, but they are good writers who know how to structure a book effectively. You'll need to show that you can write better than the person who's considering you as a ghostwriter for the project.


Having clips of something you've previously published to show clients will lend you credibility. If you haven't been previously published, showing a good sample of unpublished writing relevant to the book project is the next best thing.
 Much of the preliminary work as a ghostwriter involves hours of interviewing the subject. You'll need to learn to ask the right questions and ask them effectively.
 Depending on the nature of the project, you may have to interview people associated with your subject, consult works published within the historical period associated with your project or pore through reams of correspondence. Expect to immerse yourself in your work.
 No matter what ideas you may have for the project, it is still your client's work and should be structured to your client's tastes and expressed in your client's voice. If it helps, think of yourself as an actor taking on a role.
 Depending on the work, your client may provide you with access to confidential materials or extremely personal information. You need to be able to maintain client confidentiality as a ghostwriter and to assure your client that information given off the record stays off the record.
 Putting the issues in writing before starting protects both the ghostwriter and the client. Some issues to consider:


Duties: Who is responsible for what and when it is supposed to be done.
Compensation: How the ghostwriter is to be paid while working on the project.
Credit: Typically, the client will be listed as author. The ghostwriter may be credited as co-author, "as told to," in the dedication or not at all. Ghostwriters may want additional compensation for the lack of credit, or they may accept less compensation to have the credit for the hope of future work.
Copyright ownership: Typically, the client will want the rights to the book; however, if ownership of the rights is not addressed in writing, the default is that the collaborators share it equally, which could cause problems if the contract is cancelled and both parties wish to pursue it with other collaborators.

