 When using indoor lights, you can grow herbs in almost any location in your home. The most important factor is temperature. Herbs grow best in temperatures below 70 degrees F (21.1 degrees C). Do not locate the herbs near a heat source, such as a heat vent or radiator.


Consider the humidity. Herbs require ample humidity to promote growth. If the air in your home is dry, place the herb containers in a tray lined with small stones. Fill the tray with enough water to reach the bottom of each container. The water will provide a humid environment ideal for growing herbs.
 The intensity of your light source will determine how much light is required for your herbs each day. In general, most herbs need 10 to 16 hours of supplemental light.


Maintain proper distance between the herbs and the light source. The distance will vary depending on the type of light source you utilize. To determine if the light source is too close, place your hand where the light hits the herb plant. If you feel warmth from the light, it is too close.
Rotate the plants each week if you use fluorescent indoor lighting. Fluorescent bulbs are more intense at the center than at the ends, so rotate the plants weekly to ensure even light coverage.
 Most herbs thrive in soils with pH levels between 6 and 7. To improve drainage, plant herbs in a compost-based soil mixed with sand, peat moss or perlite.
 After the initial planting, water herbs when the soil feels dry. Water thoroughly until you see water coming out of the bottom of the pot. Do not overwater indoor herbs, or the plants may become waterlogged, yellowish or develop mildew diseases.
 Most indoor herbs benefit from occasional feeding with an all-purpose water soluble fertilizer, fish emulsion or seaweed. In general, fertilize herbs every 2 weeks and follow the instructions based on the fertilizer type. Only feed plants when they are actively growing and do not over-fertilize. Too much fertilize may kill the herb plants.
 To promote continued growth and longevity, harvest the herbs regularly. Trim back all plants to prevent flowering. Once the herb flowers, its energy will go toward flower production, rather than plant growth, which will shorten its life.

