 If you have healthy family relationships, nurture them. Emotional support is especially important when you’re having family problems, and often, your other family members will understand what you’re going through better than anyone else.Because of their inside perspective on your situation, your other family members may have good advice for how to handle your dysfunctional relatives.
 If you’re used to putting other people’s needs and feelings first, you might not be in the habit of practicing good self-care. Work on achieving a healthy balance between fulfilling your responsibilities and taking care of your own well-being.Don’t feel guilty about taking care of yourself. Remember that you’re just as worthy of care as anyone else.
Make your health a priority by getting enough sleep, eating well, and exercising.
Set aside some time every day or every week to do something you enjoy.
Try appointing an accountability partner who can point out when you start putting other people’s needs ahead of your own needs.
 Instead of suppressing your emotions, find healthy ways to acknowledge them and let them out. Try writing in a journal, venting to someone you trust, or going for a long walk.Experiencing your emotions is the only way to work through them.
It’s common to feel angry after living through a dysfunctional family situation, particularly if your parents were the dysfunctional ones.
Keep in mind that loneliness is a common emotion for people who are going through this process, even if you are spending time with supportive friends and family. It can be sad to lose someone who was a significant figure in your life. Just keep in mind that you will begin to feel better as you continue to heal.
 You can’t choose your family, but you can decide which friends to surround yourself with. Work on developing the positive, mutually beneficial relationships in your life. Seek out the people who make you feel loved and who are there for you when you need them., Distancing yourself from dysfunctional family members can bring up emotions that are hard to deal with alone. If you’re struggling to cope, make an appointment with a counselor or therapist.Support groups can also be helpful in dealing with feelings like guilt and anger.

