 In order to recommit to them, you should first reexamine your goals. Start by writing down what you want to achieve. Take some time to sit down and write out what you want to achieve and why. This will help you reflect on your goals better understand how to recommit to them.When you write down your goals, try to be as specific as you can. For example, if you want to spend more time with your family, write that you want to spend an extra 45 minutes with your family each day.;
, After writing out your goals, you may find that you failed to maintain your original objectives because they were unrealistic. In order to develop good goals, make sure that they are obtainable and within your capability. Reviewing your goals realistically will help set you up to succeed.For example, you may have set a goal to exercise every day. However, in reality, you only managed to work out twice a week. Instead of trying to exercise every day, recommit to working out three times a week. Remember that you can update these goals again and work your way toward exercising daily (if that truly is reasonable for your lifestyle).
 You may have also found that tackling too many goals at one time may have derailed your commitment to your objectives. You may have felt overwhelmed by the number of things that you were trying to commit to and, instead of solving one of them, you quit on all of them. Instead, pick one thing that you want to achieve the most and focus on that.For example, you may have decided to quit drinking caffeine and stop smoking at the same time. It is hard enough to quit one addictive habit, let alone two at the same time. Instead, choose which of the two habits you want to quit first, and come back for the other one later.
 As you reexamine your goals, set some short-term benchmarks that build towards your long-term goal. These short-term goals should be smaller objectives that gradually push you towards achieving your long-term goal. These smaller goals will keep you motivated and focus your attention on the objective in the moment.For example, if you decide to set a long-term running goal, you might want to start by jogging a half-mile, build up to running a few miles, and, over the course of a year, work your way up to running a marathon.

