 This level of education is the minimum requirement for many entry-level adjuster positions. If you choose to not continue to a post-secondary degree, some vocational schools and community colleges offer classes you can take to learn more about auto body repair. This advanced training can make you a more competitive candidate for entry-level positions as a high school graduate., Most companies prefer candidates with a bachelor’s degree, advanced vocational training, or insurance industry work experience where the candidate has learned how to estimate the cost of repairing various types of damage. Appropriate areas of study and experience include:accounting courses
business courses
employment in an auto repair shop

, Staff adjusters are employed full-time at insurance companies, while independent adjusters are contractors who work for one or several insurance companies.The setting and terms of your future employment will determine your day-to-day experiences, schedule, and flexibility as an auto insurance adjuster., Ask an experienced auto insurance adjuster if you can work under them as a trainee to learn the trade. Under their mentorship, you will begin with small claims and progress to more complex claims as you gain experience and prepare to work on your own., Every state has its own requirements for licensing. Your state’s information will be on the state’s Department of Insurance website. This information will include details such as:minimum age
qualifications
residency requirements
states with reciprocal licensing agreements
experience requirements
education requirements

, Some states will not require pre-licensing classes. For those that do, classes may be offered online or in a classroom setting. You may have to pay a fee for the classes. The classes will cover such topics as:insurance regulation
insurance basics
automobile insurance
adjusting losses

, Some states will not require an exam. For those that do, the state’s Department of Insurance website may have study material available as well as the information you need to prepare. You may have to pay a fee to sit the exam. The exam will cover knowledge on such topics as:personal automobile insurance coverage
state laws relevant to working as an adjuster
adjusting losses
fair claims settlement practices

, After passing the exam, you may still need to complete some steps to apply for the license itself, including submitting your pre-licensing class certificate and other forms to the state Department of Insurance, completing fingerprinting, undergoing a background check, and paying a license application fee.Your state’s Department of Insurance website will detail how to complete the application process and receive your license.
 The websites and HR departments of these companies should be able to provide information about open staff and independent contractor adjustor positions., Include information about your relevant education, experience, training, and licensing., Once you find a position that interests you with a company you would like to work for, check their requirements to confirm you fulfill them, and then submit your resume and cover letter.
 You will need to showcase your background and skills as you present your services to multiple insurance companies. Plan to:Create a website that presents you as a skilled, licensed, personable, and professional independent auto insurance adjuster
Design or commission a logo that makes you and your services recognizable and memorable
Produce marketing materials such as business cards and stationery
Put forth a brand message and promise, and then deliver on your promise. This will build your reputation and lead to more work

