 What you intend to use your shed for will affect the size, shape, and materials you will need. Here are some common shed uses:









Lawn and yard equipment. This is the most common use for sheds, and requires the least amount of work. These sheds are typically small and basic.
Household storage. Similar to the yard equipment shed, household storage may require more elaborate temperature and humidity control based on what is being stored.
Workshop. Workshops typically need to be bigger than a storage shed, so that you have room to move around and work on projects. With the addition of work benches and storage closets, these can be quite a bit more complex.
Car storage. A car storage shed will be one of the largest sheds you can build. It will require solid foundations and plenty of room, as well as car access to the front.;
, Several websites offer a variety of blueprints, most of which can be had for less that $30. Here are a couple places that you can find plans for sale:









Better Barns Hardware
Storage Shed Plans

My Backyard Plans has several free plans available voted by community members.
 If you'd rather build the entire shed from your own design, be sure to plan everything out from the start. You will need a blueprint for each of the following:

Foundation. The foundation needs to be solid, and the plywood on it able to hold up the weight of what you're storing without stressing or cracking.













Back wall. Each wall is constructed separately and then raised.






Front wall with door. You will need to leave room in the frame for a door. The size of the door is dictated by what you are using the shed for, and what you need to move in and out.






Side walls with window. If you aren't wiring your shed for electricity, then windows are your only source of light. Try to face your windows east and west to maximize the amount of sunlight that can enter your shed. Also keep in mind that windows effectively prevent you from using that portion of the wall as hanging storage space, so avoid putting windows in every available spot.






Roof rafters. A sloped roof will help prevent any water damage, and keep debris from resting on top of the roof. Rafters can be utilized for storage as well.






Roof decking. The most common types of roofing for sheds are asphalt or cedar shingles, though tin or sheet metal can also be used.







