 Remind yourself those relationships occurred in the past and they didn't work for a reason. Try and focus instead on the present. Utilizing mindfulness techniques will help you to train your brain to stay in the moment. It will also help you to refocus when your thoughts drift to the past.Try a sense activity. Begin by naming things in the present moment that you can see, feel, hear, touch, taste, or smell.Repeat affirmations to refocus yourself on the present. Try “I am happy in my relationship now. I won't listen to my jealous thoughts.”Engage in mindful appreciation. Notice 5 positive things about your relationship that usually go unnoticed or unappreciated.;
, Lately, you have been focusing on her past, but you are her present. Recognize that you, or the two of you together, have something she never had in her past relationship. She is choosing you over her ex by being with you. Choose her as well.


Ask her what she values about your relationship. Notice if she is talking about a future with you. If so, then you know she is invested in your future together!

, Each time a thought about a past relationship or an ex comes up, try and replace it with a positive thought. There are things you love about her and your relationship. Whether you like it or not, her past comes along with that. Consider the fact that everything that has happened in her past has contributed to the person she is today.Accept her as a package deal, and try some thought replacement practices to help you get there.Think of a positive image you have about her, a great memory of something you have done together, or a feeling you have about your relationship together.
 Put your energy into making new memories with your girlfriend. As you work on moving on from both of your pasts, build your future together with new activities, photographs, and memories. This will help you focus more on your present and your future together than her past.


Go on a vacation together.
Plan a day trip somewhere you have both been meaning to go.
Pretend to be tourists in your own town.
Learn something new together.

