 You will need to find something more powerful than World of Warcraft to get a geek to leave the house and the only thing that will do that is the opposite sex. However, how are you going to get a hot chick to attend? One way to get a few lookers is to ask older siblings to invite their friends. If you get desperate, try begging your mom to invite her youngest-looking cougar friends to hang out during the holiday party. If you can push it to get them to wear Santa hats and short skirts, go for it.;
, Anyone who has ever been to Comic Con knows that geeks love to embody their favorite character. Whether they are hitting the town dressed as someone from The Walking Dead, Scott Pilgrim or The Amazing Spiderman, you know the request to dress up will be welcomed with open arms. Since geeks are very detail oriented about their costume you may want to throw down a few ground rules:


No real weapons with your costume. Real weapons, while totally cool could turn your innocent little holiday party into an evening where everyone is stuck looking for Jacob’s slashed thumb. While geeks may be fascinated and have a true appreciation for a Japanese fighting sword, they don’t have a great track record with weapon finesse.
Wear a costume made of breathable material. Unless you want your home to smell like a burrito factory, encourage guests to avoid sweat-provoking outfits.
Leave webs, oozing blood and magic potions at home. Unless you are into peeling sticky webbing off your couch well into 2012, ask guests to arrive in a costume that won’t shed itself all over your shag carpet.
 If you want to really get your guests excited, twist a crazy geek-inspired theme in with the holidays. Ideas to ponder include:


Favorite video game world. Do your geeky friends love to play World of Warcraft, Second Life or Battlefield Bad Company? Choose everyone’s favorite game and then decorate party central with touches from the game. For example, if you are doing Battlefield Bad Company as your theme, make the room look like an apocalyptic nightmare with remnants of Christmas cheer (like a wreath, but burn it a little beforehand so it looks like it has been to hell and back)--other people may not get it, but don’t worry, your friends will!
Fantasy movie. Obvious “go to” films include “Star Trek” and “Star Wars,” but there are numerous other cult geek classics to consider. Some of the new sci-fi zombie films and retro flicks like “War Games” or “The Last Starfighter” could be fun to re-create for your holiday party. Like with the video game, use the overall theme of the film to set the mood and tone for your party. Pull out pieces from the movie such as trying to re-create the famous cantina from “Star Wars” or the ginormous old time DOS computers used in “War Games.” Throw in a few Christmas or holiday inspired decorations and everyone is at home.
Junk food inspired. Sure everyone loves junk food, but you must tap into geek-specific junk. Geeks are enormous fans of Mountain Dew and Hot Pockets for some reason. Consider hanging empty two-liter bottles of Mountain Dew from the ceiling and have a huge food bar with your friends’ favorite junk foods--don’t forget to buy the Nerds (candy) for an added treat.
 At most parties antisocial gaming would be frowned upon, however at a geeky holiday party, it’s encouraged. In addition to the obvious Xbox 360, consider other types of games including:


Guessing the number of jelly beans or candy canes in a glass jar. Some of these geeks may guess the ACTUAL number.
Ridiculously impossible math problems. Find the toughest math book around and copy a few problems down on a piece of paper. Make numerous copies and ask guests to answer the questions. Be sure you find out the answers so you can give out prizes for correct answers.
Pin the tail on the quarterback. Most geeks are not the biggest sports fans, so turn the tables on the football heroes and pin a tale on the quarterback. Find a photo of a football player (famous or not), take it to the local copy store and have it expanded to poster size. Draw a Santa hat on the player’s head and mount to a wall. Make donkey tails out of construction paper and place double-sided tape at the top of each tail. Blindfold each guest and then send him or her in the general direction of the football player. The guest who pins the tail in the “most interesting place on the football player” gets a prize.
Helium-sucking game. Nerds love to suck the helium from balloons so turn it into a game where you award a prize for the craziest sounding voice. Decorate the room with a bunch of helium filled red and green balloons. Halfway through the party, announce that it’s time for the “helium balloon sucking game” and instruct guests to grab as many balloons as possible and start inhaling. Pick the top three weirdest voices and then have the crowd make the final decision on who is crowned “weird helium voice.” Consider offering a prize to the person who does the coolest impression of beloved film or game character in the helium voice--now that's talent!

