 With all your planning complete, it is time to commence teaching. Opening the lesson/s with the basic framework of a letter will enable student to see the skeleton of a letter and then work can commence on filling in the body.


Start by covering the basic bones of a letter, the opening salutations, the introduction to a letter setting the scene on the purposes of the letter.
Then show the body of a letter communicating the intended information
Finally, explain the conclusion, which wraps up the letter.
It is also important to discuss the many varied types of writing a letter possible and which type can be used for which purpose. Also explain how a student can identify the right style of writing to suit the purpose of the letter. This could be an excellent opportunity for a quiz to be inserted on knowing which style of letter is appropriate for a particular occasion.
 Once the skeleton of letter writing has been established with students, demonstrate the application of that framework by using examples of letter writing and identifying in each where each bone of the skeleton is. Show the different styles of writing using sample letters, including famous writers where possible. Using examples will help the theoretical concepts you have just taught to stick in the students' memories.
 Once the examples are completed, break up the concepts and teach them one by one.


Talk about opening salutations and the various material that comes with this. Have students practice writing one or several different types to understand in their own minds what you are speaking about.
Repeat the same structure for the introduction or scene setting opening lines, the body of the letter and the conclusion.
 When you have finished breaking down the different components and covered the vast material on each part of the letter, bring those bones all back together to form a whole. This would be an ideal time to have the student practice writing a whole letter in a context. And, if time permits, repeat the activity in a different context to help students adjust to the various types and times in their lives they will interact with letters.

