 If your child has never been away from home for more than a few hours, it can help some parents to have a few practice days to acclimate to the idea of sending their child to daycare for a full day.


Although some daycare facilities will accept new children on a trial basis, it isn’t always an option. Instead, you can set up a mock daycare where your child can be dropped off for an entire day at the home of a relative or babysitter.
 On the practice days, you should try to go through the routine that you will follow when your child is actually at daycare. This involves getting your child ready and out the door in plenty of time to take them to the daycare and get to work or other appointments without rushing. By following the planned routine, you can work on any issues that might make you late.
 Making all of the necessary plans and practicing ahead of time can help to ease your mind, but you might find that it does not do anything to combat the heartache you feel when thinking about being separated from your child. These are very strong emotions that often ease with time.
 If you are feeling sad or guilty about sending your child to daycare, think about the big picture—you need to work, or go to school in order to support your child. Doing the things you will do while your child is at daycare will help to provide your child with a brighter future.


Sometimes it is hard to see the bigger picture when you are dropping your child off at daycare, but repeating an affirmation may help. When repeated over and over, a positive affirmation has a calming effect that can ease your negative feelings. Remind yourself that you are doing the right thing and say to yourself, “My child must go to daycare so that I can do ___ to provide him/her with a better future”.
 Some parents get worried that their children will resent them for sending them to daycare. However, if you talk to your child openly and honestly about why they are going to daycare, your child will not harbor these negative feelings.


To help your child remember that you love them, put your picture in a locket, or give your child a picture of you to keep with them at daycare. Then show your child that you also have a picture of them that you keep at all times.
When you get home and pick up your child, spend some special time with them talking about their day and doing something fun together.
 Thinking positive thoughts is a good way to hold off anxious or guilty thoughts. Try to think about all of the good things that will come out of your child being at daycare:


You will be able to go to work or school, your child will make new friends and learn new things, and your child will get to explore a totally new environment.
There is also the benefit of being taught things like the alphabet, counting, and other concepts that your child will need to know when they attend school.

