 It is very common for horses to suffer from minor cuts and wounds. Most horse owners have to deal with the situation regularly. If you own a horse, it is a good idea to keep some basic first aid supplies handy.Your kit should include some clean towels, surgical gauze, and surgical tape. You can also keep duct tape on hand.
In your kit, you should also include scissors, petroleum jelly, and ointment. Consider making sure that you have a bottle of sterile saline solution in the kit.
Your kit should hold Betadine, which is a disinfectant. You will also need tweezers and q-tips. If you travel with your horse, keep a portable first aid kit in your truck as well as at home in your stable.;
, Horses frequently rub up against things that can injure them, such as barbed wire. If you see that your horse is actively bleeding, there is an open wound. If you notice that your horse has an open wound, you need to clean it.Use sterile saline solution to clean the wound. Pour some on a clean towel and dab or pat the wound.
The purpose of cleaning the wound is to get rid of any surface bacteria. While you are cleaning, you can try to assess the severity of the wound.
When washing a wound, pour plenty of fluid on it. Let the excess fluid wash away onto the ground. In a pinch, contact lens solution can work as your saline solution.
 Puncture wounds can be serious injuries. These wounds are caused when your horse is punctured by a sharp object, such as a sharp piece of glass. If the wound is on the abdomen or chest, contact your vet immediately.If they puncture is on the upper leg or hip, you can attempt to treat the wound yourself. Slow or stop the bleeding by pressing gently on the wound with clean towels or gauze.
If the wound does not appear to be very deep, you can try to wash it with saline solution. You can try to measure the depth of the wound using a q-tip. If that causes discomfort for your horse, stop immediately.
Do not try to remove a foreign object from the wound yourself. You may unintentionally cause more damage. If there is an object stuck in your horse, wait for the vet to come before trying to treat the wound.
 For simple cuts, you can likely treat your horse yourself. But unless you have a background in veterinary medicine, you should also contact your vet at some point. When you are dealing with a wound, you can remember the proper steps by thinking of the four Cs. The first "C" stands for "calm". It can be scary to see your horse wounded, especially if he is bleeding. But keep your cool, so that you don't frighten your horse.
The second "C" stands for "clean". Using your saline solution, clean the wound. The third "C" stands for "compression". Wrap the clean wound with a compression bandage from your kit.
Finally, the last "C" stands for "contact". Contact your vet whenever your horse is wounded. Even if the cut is minor, it is better to be safe than sorry.
 Even if it appears minor, a wound can cause great discomfort for your horse. It is important to be patient and allow him time to heal. It will take several days, at a minimum, for your horse to return to normal.You will need to keep your horse confined to his stall to keep from overexercising. Consult your vet about the proper length of time for confinement.
While your horse is resting, keep his wound clean. Change the bandages regularly, even if the bleeding has stopped.
Let your horse take it easy until he is fully healed. Even if he seems antsy, make him rest until your vet gives the ok to return to his normal routine.

