 When you come back from school, work, class, or whatever, and grab your favorite snack, don't chow it all down. Eat it slowly, and take a small amount of it. Gradually tone down your eating every day. If you like, for instance, Oreos, and you eat about 10 of them when you get home, try not to grab 10 right away and chow them down like it's your first meal in 10 days. Gradually tone down the amount of Oreos you eat every day by one Oreo at a time.;
, Imagine stuffing chunks of steak in a balloon. It expands doesn't it? It's the same concept with your stomach. If you were to take mushed up chunks of steak and stuff it in a balloon, it wouldn't expand as much. If you like to chew your food 5 times and gulp it down, try not to do that. Instead, chew it slowly, chew around 10 to 15 times, then swallow.If you don't do this, and just do the opposite, the food will be much harder to process in your stomach acids., You need to make a difference in the way you eat if you want a healthier lifestyle. Start by eating more veggies. Try to eat more vegetables every day. They help with your metabolism and strengthen your immune system. Try snacking on carrots, or celery every once in a while. Make healthier meals during the day. Instead of having cereal, waffles or pancakes as breakfast, try eating yogurt with some berries in it. You can even just eat three fruits in the morning.Any type of yogurt is fine, just as long as it's a healthy breakfast, it's all good., Chow down on some Cheetos. Work out after chowing down everything if you want all the excess fat to leave your awesome body.
 Work out every morning. For example, say that you wake up around 6:00am and get on the bus at 7:45am. Have a 30 minute workout every morning and if you don't have time, work out for 3 to 5 minutes, then get back to business. If you really don't have time, do a 30 second stretch, and run instead of walking while doing activities, then jog to your bus stop. You might also go to the gym every day. Do around a 3 minute stretch before you get on anything, such as do yoga stretches. Before you work out, do 5 to 10 push-ups, 50 jumping jacks, and 30 sit ups.
, You need to pee five times a day and you need to poop five.Try to do some business in the morning, at school, and at home. Do your best because keeping the waste in you will not help you keep a healthier lifestyle.Don't over-poop though., This might help you lose a couple of pounds if you keep this diet on for about three months., It's been scientifically proven that you do lose weight sleeping.