 Trust is something that is shared between two people, and it will be much easier to trust your boyfriend if you also act in a trustworthy manner.If you expect trust in a relationship, the other person should have the same expectations of you. You want to lead by example. So, if you worry that your boyfriend will flirt with other women, make sure you don't flirt with other men.
One way to develop trust in your relationship is for both you and your boyfriend to be reliable and follow through with what you say you will do. This will teach you both that you can depend on each other. For example, if you make an agreement to do something together or help with something, make sure you do it., Although it might sound too simple, making a commitment to trust your boyfriend will help you act accordingly. If you both agree to this, you’ve helped set expectations for your relationship.
 An important part of learning to trust your boyfriend is thinking about how they feel and being sensitive to their emotions. If you expect your boyfriend to do this for you, then you also need to make this a priority in your relationship.An important part of this step is listening and respecting what your boyfriend thinks and feels.
Even if you disagree with something they say, don't dismiss their feelings or act in a way that is disrespectful.
 Building trust requires face-to-face interaction and communication. While you might sometimes need to communicate on the phone, via text, or in emails with your boyfriend, make sure you spend time talking with each other face-to-face.


This will help you bond with each other and increase the sense of security in your relationship.
It’s much easier to trust someone when you can look them in the eye and feel confident they are telling you the truth.
 Gossiping about your relationship and sharing intimate details about it with other people can erode trust. If you both make a pact not to violate this understanding, you will find it easier to trust in other ways.


If there’s something that you would prefer not be shared, make it clear to your boyfriend so he is aware of your expectations and wishes. At the same time, when he shares something personal with you, reassure him that you will keep his confidences.
 Mistakes are inevitable in a relationship, and if both you and your boyfriend can acknowledge you made a mistake and sincerely apologize, you will both learn to trust each other and be more secure in your relationship.


Many arguments can be solved more easily if both parties are willing to acknowledge that they might have done something or said something that was hurtful or inappropriate.
 Holding on to something that hurt your feelings or caused you pain will impede your ability to trust your boyfriend. If you’ve talked it through and he’s offered a sincere apology, then you need to try and let it go.Bringing up the past or injured feelings each time you have an argument makes it difficult to trust each other and communicate honestly. If your boyfriend feels like you react this way to every situation, he might not want to be honest with your or communicate openly.
 Spending time with your boyfriend is an important way to build trust, but you also need to make time for yourself and your family and friends. Time away from your boyfriend will help you trust your own instincts and can even provide new insights into your relationship.


If you have concerns about whether your trust is misplaced, talk with close friends or family about your worries. This might help you analyze your feelings and gain new perspective on whether your trust is deserved or misplaced.
 Trust is not something that emerges overnight. Instead it requires a lot of hard work, patience, and commitment.Depending on the nature of your relationship and the struggles life throws at you, expect to have doubts about whether or not you should trust your boyfriend. He will also likely experience similar doubts at one point or another. This is natural, but how you handle these doubts and concerns will determine how strong your relationship is.

