 There are many ways to "levitate" a short distance off the ground, but Criss Angel's technique requires skilled misdirection techniques and practice, as well as advance preparation. There are other techniques described in their own section below, which are less impressive but easier to pull off.









Criss Angel has also "levitated" many feet up into the air, but in that trick he is most likely wearing a wire harness attached to a crane. The black clothing, bright sky, and carefully selected camera angles make the wires invisible.;
, Find a pair of shoes that easily slip on and off, with a little extra room in them. Use tape to attach a strong magnet inside each one. Arrange the magnets so your shoe heels stick together firmly when you bring your feet together.









You can use alternate methods of attaching the magnets, such as slitting a hole in the interior side of your shoes and inserting the magnets into the pocket.
Try asking for rare earth magnets or other strong magnets at a home improvement store or online.
 This works best with slightly baggy pants. Cut a slit starting well above the knee, and extending most of the way down your leg. You will need to be able to lift your foot out of your shoe and through this slit in order to perform this trick, without anyone behind you noticing.








Use dark pants to make the slit less obvious, and wear long underwear, tights, or tight pants underneath that blend in with the pants' color.
If the slit is very obvious, extend it further downward, then pinch the lower end of the slit and bring it over so the two halves of the pant leg overlap slightly. Sew this material together at the bottom of the slit.
 The shoes and pants should hang sturdily, even when you are not wearing them. This can be done with tape, but sewing the pants leg to the shoe may be less noticeable.









Use thread that blends in with the color of the pants.
 Although Criss Angel always seems to simply be standing in front of a chair, he's actually using it as a very important prop. Start practicing with low platforms, that you can easily step onto with minimal foot movements. When facing the platform, your back should be facing the audience.
 Once these preparations are complete, you are ready to levitate. You've probably guessed the basic movement by now, but here it is:









Face toward the platform (away from the audience), and bring your feet together so the magnets hold your shoes together.
Slip one foot out of its shoe and through the slit in the pants leg, and place it on the platform in front of you.
Lean forward and lift your other foot in the air behind you, so you are balancing on one leg.
Hover for a couple seconds. Move your "levitating" feet and your arms slightly to make this look like a great effort.
 After hovering for a couple seconds, bring both shoes (attached together) onto the platform. Lift the heel of the foot you were balancing on as you do this, then bring it back down onto the toe of the empty shoe. Bend your knees as you "land" to make it seem like more of an impact, as though you had jumped. Once on the platform, slip your free foot back through the pants slit and into its shoe.









You can instead land back on the ground, but this is harder to pull off convincingly.Also, if you don't land on the platform, the audience may wonder why it's there, and guess how you pulled off the trick.
 Only audience members directly behind you will be fooled by this trick. While practicing, set up a video camera or recruit a friend to watch you behind you and to the left or right. Do this many times, moving the camera or friend each time, so you get a better idea of where the audience needs to stand to be fooled.
 Once you're ready to perform in front of an audience, you'll need to distract them from your legs. As with many magic tricks, good misdirection skills will make this much easier to pull off without being caught. Keep up a stream of chatter before you "lift off," arch your back, throw your head back, and lift your arms in motions as though you were pushing off of the air. All of these will make the audience less likely to look at your feet while you slip your leg through the pants slit.









It usually helps if you start doing this as you're walking towards the chair.
Stress that the audience needs to stay back. Some magicians claim they might fall onto them and injure someone nearby.

