 You can spend as little as 15 minutes a day relaxing your body and your mind, which will reduce tension, stress and anxiety.


Sit quietly and focus on your breathing. Take at least 3 deep breaths, exhaling slowly after each breath. Then continue to sit and breathe quietly for another 5 minutes. This isn’t a meditation, it is simply taking a few minutes to get centered and calm.
Alternately tense and release your muscle groups. (This is also referred to as progressive muscle relaxation.) Begin with your feet and work all the way to your face and head. Simply tighten your muscles for a few seconds and then release. Allow a few seconds to feel each muscle group relax.
Mentally scan your body from head to toe. Become aware of any area that feels tense and concentrate on relieving that tenseness. For example, if you have a cramp in your shoulder, tighten and release those muscles until your shoulder feels loose and relaxed.
Focus on happy thoughts and memories after you are completely relaxed. You can recall a pleasant encounter with a friend, visualize your favorite flower or conjure up one of the happiest memories you have, such as your wedding day, or the day you graduated from college.
Take 3 more deep, cleansing breaths after you have entertained pleasant thoughts for at least 5 minutes.;
, Think of guided imagery as a self-directed daydream. See yourself going about your day with calmness and meeting success in all your endeavors. Some people like to use guided imagery audio tapes, but you can create your own routine. This is a particularly effective method to use if you are experiencing any anxiety about an upcoming project or a job interview. Mentally see yourself as successfully negotiating any situation that is causing you concern.
 If a weekly massage is not in your budget, ask a family member or close friend to give you a light massage once a week. It can be as simple as a shoulder rub. Physical massage is a great way to relieve tension and improve blood circulation. Massages also facilitate the natural healing process in your body.
 Attend church services or join a prayer and meditation group. Prayer and meditation can relieve anxiety, pain, stress, depression and insomnia.
 Any activity that gives you enjoyment will help calm you, and it can serve as a form of meditation. Try writing, painting, stamp collecting, or gardening. You could also take up a new sport that you’ve always wanted to try.
 Learn how to do yoga, Qi Gong or Tai Chi. All of these therapies have proven benefits that help strengthen the mind-body connection:


Increased energy
Increased relaxation
Improved immune system response
Sharper mental focus
Increased physical flexibility

, This is a form of mind body medicine that allows one to free their mind and release stress through the form of dancing. You can find shaking music all over the internet and that's about all you need! Because most people don't like to dance in public or are afraid of what they will look like, encourage your participants to close their eyes while doing this activity. The energetic vibe that everyone will feel afterwards is so incredible.

