;
,,, Use 2 nails in each.
 Angle it up so it crosses the upright about 12"-18" from the bottom. Draw a line on the angled piece where it crosses the upright (it will be about a 45ยบ angle). Also draw a line on the upright where it sticks out past the end of the foot (that is, you'll cut it so it will be even with the end of the foot).
, Check it in all four places where the angled pieces will go; it should fit everywhere.


Since this angled piece fits everywhere, you can use it as a template for the other 3 pieces. Lay it on the 2"x4", mark, and cut.
 They go on the inside of the feet, with their ends even with the ends of the feet, and flush against the uprights. Put one nail in the bottom, then fit and nail the top, driving the nail at an angle through the support and into the upright. Then put another nail in the bottom. Make sure all nails are flush with the wood.
 These marks are where your holes will be. Also measure across each upright and mark the middle (do this at the top and bottom of each upright), lay your yardstick on the upright aligned with these marks, and draw lines that cross your 8", 12", etc. marks. Where your lines cross it where you will drill your holes for the pipe.
 With the point of your drill bit right where the lines cross, drill each hole. (You can put the upright on 2 scrap pieces of the 2"x4" to help you not drill into the floor underneath.)

,, Just a few should do it. Now the base is done!

, Measure from each end to find the center (it probably won't be exactly at 6'), and mark it.
 You want the fulcrum (tipping point) to be 1" to 2" closer to one end of the board so that end will stay down (the teeter is a one-way obstacle), so measure and mark these. You can loosely attach two of the pipe straps so that they "bridge" the 2" mark, and put the teeter together by running the pipe through one 24" hole, through the pipe straps under the board, and out the other 24" hole. Then do a not-very-scientific drop test by putting a 3-lb. weight (box of laundry detergent) on the up end 12" from the end and timing how long it takes to hit the floor. It should be less than 3 seconds. In this case, the 1" mark was used; see what you like.
 Paint the contact areas yellow. You'll probably need 3 coats for the yellow. Paint it once and let dry. Then paint it again, and this time lightly sprinkle play sand on it while it's still wet; try to get it kind of even. (You only need sand on the top of the board of course.) When it's dry, sweep off any loose sand, then apply the third coat of paint. When the yellow's dry, do the same for the blue area; you'll probably just need the first coat with the sand and the second on top of it. Viola! A beautiful no-slip surface, just like the real thing!

,, If using the 1/2" straps, don't screw all the way in, but leave them a bit loose so the pipe will slip through without too much trouble.
