 Peppermint contains menthol, which can help soothe sore throats and dry coughs and act as a decongestant. You can find many different treatments with peppermint, such as extracts used in dietary supplements, lozenges, essential oils, and herbal teas. You can also use the fresh herb as flavoring in your meals every day.


You can drink peppermint tea up to three times a day. Peppermint oil is often used in aromatherapy or as a rub. Never take peppermint oil orally.
Don't use peppermint or menthol for children under two years of age., Garlic has antiviral, anti-inflammatory properties that can help reduce inflammation in the throat and nasal passages, and is rich in antioxidants such vitamin B6, vitamin C and manganese, which help boost immunity against infections. Garlic has a sulfuric enzyme called alliin that helps protect against viruses. Garlic is best taken as a raw clove to release alliin.


To make it more edible, crush the garlic into a spoonful of honey or olive oil. This helps strengthen your immune system to reduce the likeliness of catching a cold when taken on a daily basis, and speeds up recovery when taken during a cold.
Also try two to four grams of fresh, minced garlic cloves to spice up your meals or cook it by lightly browning it over low heat so as not to destroy its active compounds.
Garlic has been shown to have other health benefits like lowering blood cholesterol and blood pressure.
There are many other forms of garlic available, such as garlic seasoning, garlic powder, and garlic salt. Too much garlic may cause bad breath and low blood pressure, so limit your intake to two to four cloves of garlic a day. , Licorice root is an expectorant that has many medicinal benefits including the ability to reduce or eliminate a cough. There are several licorice root pills and serums you can take You can also eat one to five grams of real licorice root. Look for candy licorice with a main ingredient of licorice root, not anise or licorice flavoring.


An alternative to simply eating the licorice is to make a licorice tea. Soak one to five grams of licorice sticks in a cup of boiling water. Let it steep for three to five minutes, then strain and drink once every week.
Don't give a child licorice tea for more than a day without talking to your doctor. Never give any licorice tea to an infant or toddler. Licorice should also be avoided by anyone with high blood pressure, hepatitis, or liver or kidney disease., Blue vervain works as an expectorant to loosen phlegm and mucus from the chest and throat, which eases congestion and prevents coughs. Blue vervain is available as a supplement, tea, and syrup at most nutrition stores and pharmacies. The recommended dose for blue vervain supplements is one capsule taken with a meal and glass of water, at least 1–2 times per day.


To make blue vervain tea, steep 1/2 a teaspoon in 1 cup of boiling water for three to five minutes. Strain and drink up to two times per day.
Blue vervain should not be used if you are taking diuretic medication or drink a lot of caffeine. It may cause dehydration.
Ask your doctor before using blue vervain if you are pregnant, have a digestive problem, or are taking any other medications., Due to its anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties, elderberry is commonly used to treat respiratory illnesses, sore throats, coughs, and fevers. Elderberry extract can be found as a lozenge, dietary capsule supplement, or syrup at most nutrition or drug stores.


You can also try using dried elderberry flower as an herbal tea. Steep three to five grams of dried elder flower in a cup of boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes. Drink this mixture up to three times per day.
Prolonged use of elderberry is not recommended. Elderberry is a blood thinner and may not be recommended for people with low blood pressure. Only drink it every two or three days.

Do not use unripe or uncooked elderberries as they may be poisonous., Eucalyptus is available as vapor baths and lozenges to help soothe sore throats. You can also try topical ointments containing eucalyptus leaves, which can be applied to the nose and chest to relieve congestion and loosen phlegm. This helps prevent mucus from aggravating the throat.


For adults, eucalyptus is generally safe when applied to the skin.
Use fresh leaves to make a tea by steeping two to four grams of dried leaves in a hot cup of water for 10 to 15 minutes. You can also use the leaves to make a warm gargle mixture to soothe sore throats.

Never take eucalyptus or eucalyptus oil by mouth because it can be poisonous., Slippery elm contains mucilage, a gel-like substance that coats and soothes the mouth, throat, stomach, and intestines to reduce coughs. It is available as tablets, lozenges, and powdered extracts at most health food stores. You can also make a tea infusion by steeping 1 tablespoon of powdered bark in a cup of boiling water for three to five minutes, which you can drink up to three times a day.


Do not give slippery elm to a child or use it during pregnancy without asking your doctor.