 Do you want it to be shimmer, clear, coloured, flavoured or sheer? There are many different kinds out there, so go shopping and take a look at what's available!


Lipstick is usually has a more opaque colour, and a thicker consistency than lip gloss.
Lip gloss is usually transparent, or with a subtle hint of color. They can be used as an additional layer over the lipstick for an additional shine.
Lip balms are usually transparent, and are designed to protect the lips from sun and wind, and often to soothe chapped lips and cold sores.
Lip stains are like a pen. They can sometimes have a strong colour, but they help change the color of your lips without looking like you are wearing lip color.
Some categories may overlap. You can find lipsticks with SPF protection, lip gloss that is very thick, etc.;
, Sometimes samples are available to comparison shop. You put these on your hand or a testing strip provided by the store, never directly on your own lips.
 Find the perfect shade by experimenting with different colours.


Start with a subtle color, something a few shades darker than your lip color.
Avoid bright fire-engine-red at first; a beginner's mistake is going straight for the loudest red you can find to announce, "I'm wearing lipstick!" Even if you do look great in that color, any mistake, imperfection, or slightest smudge will stand out.

If you have a sister who is experienced with lipstick color, find out her favorite shades. Sisters tend to look good in similar colors, because of their similar skin tones. (But don't share her makeup!)

, Today's lipsticks are better formulated than those of the past, making it unneeded. For a beginner, it is usually an unnecessary step. If you do, it should be neutral or match the colour of your lipstick.
 Stretch the lips and start at the center, putting on the lipstick to the corners. Blot the lipstick with a tissue. Make sure the lipstick has not smudged over the line of your lips.
 Stretch your lips and draw the stain in a line in the center of each lip, upper and lower. Rub your lips together and blot.
 Either apply it all over your lips, or just apply it in the centre of each lip and rub your lips together to apply an even, thin coat. Another option is to apply it in the centre of your lower lip, as this makes your lips look fuller.

