 When making an Herb pot, it is essential to have a good variety of herbs and companion plants that will assist your culinary pursuits. Some good choices include:


Sweet Marjoram
Lemon Balm
Sage
Common Basil

Mint
Lime Basil
Thyme
Oregano
Strawberries
Hot Pepper;
,


Make sure that your pot has holes in the bottom for good drainage.






Take your gravel or grit, and pour this into the container to about a quarter of the pot's depth. This will help water drain out from the bottom of the soil.
 Once the gravel is in place, start to fill the pot with a multi-purpose, or soil-based compost. This should fill approximately three quarters of the pot's remaining depth.



Place the herb plants into the pot, with about 15 centimeter (5.9 in) between each stem.






Squeeze each herb gently from its temporary pot, and tease the roots from the root ball; this will encourage them to spread out.
 This will help to ensure the best growth. The display may look messy at first, but do not worry, as this will start to fill out and look lush within a few weeks.
 Once you are happy with the positions, start to fill the gaps between the plants with compost.


Firmly push the compost into the gaps by pushing your fingers deep into the soil that you have just added, being careful not to damage any roots.






Add more if necessary. Leave a couple of centimeters between the pot's rim and the soil, so that the pot does not overflow when watered.
 Cut the tops off the taller plants, roughly halving them in height. This will encourage each herb plant to bush out and provide more leaves to pick at harvest time.
 Obtain a controlled release fertilizer.


Push 3 - 5 of these into the soil, depending on your pot size. Simply push the controlled release fertiliser deep in with your finger and then re-cover with soil. These slow-release fertilisers should last a whole season, meaning that you needn't feed the pot again.
 Water thoroughly, until the water starts to drain out of the bottom of the pot. The compost needs to absorb a lot on first watering, so expect to apply four litres or so. Continue to water over the coming months, at least every few days, or when the soil seems dry. Herbs like to dry out between water, and some herbs such as Rosemary can easily be over-watered.
