 The air mattress (or "air bed") is one of the most popular temporary bed solutions for all manner of applications, including camping, moving, and accommodating overnight guests. Benefits of air mattresses include their ability to be stowed away in a small space when not needed and their high level of insulation from cold ground temperatures.


Air mattresses must be inflated using a pump. Using a hand pump can be time consuming and tiring, while using an electric pump requires access to an electrical outlet. An electric pump also makes it more difficult to achieve the precise level of air pressure that you want, so consider buying a hand pump for minute adjustments even if you primarily use an electric pump.
Air mattresses can be difficult to keep inflated if they are punctured or torn. For this reason, they should be protected from any pets in your home that might tear the mattress with their claws or teeth.;
, An alternative to an air mattress is a sleeping pad. These pads have a similar plastic exterior to air mattresses, but they contain a pad of open-cell foam inside. This foam tends to be more supportive than an air mattress, but makes sleeping pads bulkier when stored. Sleeping pads often come in "self-inflating" models, which means the foam draws air in through a valve when in use and is compressed back down for storage.
 Sleeping bags provide one of the simplest and most versatile temporary bed solutions. They are compact and can be placed nearly anywhere, and unlike the options above, they do not require additional bedding for comfortable use. However, sleeping bags do not provide much support, and so may not be an ideal choice for accommodating overnight guests.
 Folding cots are compact and inexpensive, and do not require any additional equipment such as air pumps. Unlike sleeping bags, they lift the sleeper off of the ground, providing insulation from cold floors, airflow for ventilation in warm temperatures, and separation from uneven terrain when camping. Because of its design, a cot tends to be one of the narrowest options for a temporary bed, so it may not be ideal for a person with a large frame.
 If accommodating overnight guests is your goal, consider working the temporary bed into your furniture setup. There are many options available for sofas and ottomans that fold out into twin or double-sized beds. In addition, a daybed could be used as seating during the day and could accommodate guests at night.

