 A lawyer-client relationship is established as soon as the client asks the lawyer for representation and the lawyer agrees. No money needs to have changed hands. The lawyer is expected to protect the client’s privacy from this point forward.Before you agree to undertake representation, double-check to see if the client’s case will conflict with any other ongoing or former case.


If Bob is hiring you to sue Allison, you should check to make sure that Allison is not a current or former client.
 If you are taking in a new client, it is best to know if they are involved in any ongoing cases in which you have participated. Even if your or their involvement was minimal, you should identify these cases.If you served as a witness to a trial where Bob was accused, then you should consider the possibility of a conflict and its impact upon your existing and potential client relations.
 Your firm should be generally aware of your family ties, financial investments, relations, and connections to local government. Informing your firm in specific terms about these ties can help everyone in the office identify potential conflicts with greater ease. If your status changes (for example, if you get married), inform your firm immediately.Always inform the firm when you become aware of a potential conflict through a relative.
However, no firm expects its employees to disclose every instance which might arise in the future as a conflict.
 Judges, lawyers, paralegals, plaintiffs, clients, consultants, and expert witnesses should disclose all personal and financial relationships for which there might be a conflict of interest. Of course, this does not always happen. If you suspect two people have a personal relationship that can affect the partiality of the case, you may approach the judge with what is called a formal motion of recusal. This motion asks the judge to dismiss a member of the case due to a conflict of interest.


If you and a relative are both lawyers, it is generally considered a conflict of interest for you to represent opposing parties.A lawyer may represent his or her own relatives, but it is a conflict of interest when the lawyer is representing a party opposing their relatives.Judges should not have any ties to the members of the case. It is standard procedure for a judge to remove themselves from a case if such a conflict arises. If you know their personal or financial interests are at stake and they do not excuse themselves, you may file a formal motion of recusal., Lawyers cannot sue their own clients, nor can they represent both sides in a legal conflict.If another client comes to you with a case against one of your existing clients, you should not accept the case. If this client is a new client, you can still represent your old client, but if both clients are existing clients, you should remove yourself from the case entirely.


If Bob is trying to sue Allison, you may find that Allison is a current client. She may want you to defend her against Bob. If Bob is a potential new client, you can still represent Allison.
However, if Bob has hired you in the past, you should not represent either Bob or Allison.
This does not represent a conflict of interest as you have no relationship with Bob.
 If you believe there is a conflict of interest, you may still be able to proceed. You may not break lawyer-client confidentiality, nor can you represent two clients against one another. That said, if the clients’ cases are not involved and you have no other personal stake, you may get written permission from your clients. This is called informed consent. Without breaking confidentiality, tell your clients of the potential conflict. If they understand the conflict and still agree to hire you, they may sign a contract.Bob is suing Allison. Allison hired you five years ago on an unrelated case. You have not worked for Allison since. You have no personal ties to Allison. You can inform Bob that she is a former client. If he still wants to hire you, get his permission in writing.
Always consult your state or local bar for guidelines on what conflicts are acceptable to handle. There may also be varying guidelines on informed consent.

