 Only burn natural materials in your fireplace; never introduce foreign substances, including cardboard, newspaper, or paper trash. These substances burn poorly, produce a lot of smoke, and release chemicals into the air. Only burn tinder (such as pine needles or tiny sticks), kindling (small sticks or pinecones), and fuel (large logs, up to about 14” long).Burning hardwood (such as maple and oak) will diminish the amount of soot and ash buildup in your chimney. Also avoid burning wood that is wet or still green, as it will produce large amounts of smoke and not burn well.;
, You should never put gasoline into a fireplace. Gas is volatile, and could easily cause a fire to get out of control. If you’re struggling to light a fire, use a small amount of lighter fluid instead, although it’s best to just use matches and tinder. Flammable liquids are risky and raise the chances of a house fire.If your fires aren’t starting consistently, hardware stores also sell small (rough 2” x 2”) fire-starter squares that will burn for about 15–20 minutes.
 If you build your fire efficiently the first time, it will burn for longer, heat your home effectively, and result in minimal smoke escaping into your home. Start by laying your tinder at the bottom of the fire, followed by kindling. Lay the wood pieces in such a way that there will be room for airflow under the fire—without airflow, the fire will go out immediately. Finally, add two or three logs on top; you can add more logs once the initial couple are burning.When you add logs to the fire, make sure to set them gently on top of the already-burning logs or coals—if you throw new logs on, sparks and burning coals will fly off. Add logs one or two at a time, as you don’t want to turn your quiet fire into a bonfire by adding too many logs at once.
Before you place any wood in the fireplace, remember to open the damper. People often forget this step, and a closed damper will result in your fire filling your home with smoke.
 Before lighting a new fire in the evening, you’ll need to scoop out the ash from the previous fire. This will help keep your fireplace clean and attractive, and will prevent live coals from burning in your fireplace while you’re away from the house.You can purchase an ash shovel at a hardware store. Also consider purchasing other common fireplace tools, such as brush and fireplace tongs or prong. The latter will allow you to move burning logs around in the fire, if they’re at risk of falling out.
 A fireplace screen should be at least 3 feet (0.91 m) high, and most common models are be made of fine, crossed wire on a flexible, three-part frame. This screen will catch any live sparks that leap out of the fire, and will also prevent larger logs from falling out.A screen is a necessity if you have small children or animals in the house, as they could easily run or stumble into an open fire. If there are more durable models of fireplace grate available at your local hardware store, it may be wise to purchase a heavy grate in addition to (or instead of) a lighter screen.

