 If you are just starting with building ecosystems, you may want to start small. The smaller your container, the harder it is to maintain a self-sustaining environment. Larger containers allow for the inclusion of multiple diverse species and give everything room to grow. All containers must be clear to let in light.A small glass bowl is fast to set up and doesn’t take up much space. Small bowls are good for beginners because you can experiment with what works for you. They are harder to keep sustained because there isn’t much space for growth and diversity.
Medium aquariums (10-30 gallons) have more space for growth, but are more expensive and still limited in the size for growth.
Large aquarium (60-200 gallons) have ample space for growth and diversity and are most likely to be successful; however, they are very expensive and hard to make room for.;
, Fluorescent lighting is important for the growth of the plants in your ecosystem. It is recommended to provide 2 to 5 watts per gallon of water for a freshwater aquarium.Incandescent lighting will not help your plants grow.
 The substrate is the soil of the aquarium that allows the plants to anchor and grow. It must be properly established before doing anything else to foster an environment of growth and recycling of nutrients.If using a small bowl, start with 1 inch of sand and then add about ½ inch of pea gravel on top.
For medium to larger aquariums, start with 2 inches of sand and about 1 ½-2 inches of pea gravel on top.
Sand and pea gravel can be purchased from a pet store or obtained from a nearby pond.
 The water is important because it will establish the first source of food for the fish and other organisms: algae and microorganisms. You can start with distilled/bottled water, dechlorinated tap water, or water from a previous fish tank or aquarium.If you use distilled/bottled water or dechlorinated tap water, mix some fish flakes in with the water to encourage growth.
Adding some water from an already established tank will also help growth because it will already have the essential nutrients.
 When choosing plants you want to consider: how fast they grow (how often you’ll have to trim them), the size of the plant, whether they’re edible for fish and snails, and where in the aquarium they will grow (from the bottom, from the surface, from branches). To cultivate a diverse environment, include some of the following:Bottom growth: Hair grass, corkscrew grass, or green rotala
Surface Growth: Duckweed, lotus
Branches: crystalwort, Java moss, Christmas moss, phoenix moss
You want to make sure the plants are well-established (let them grow and become rooted) before adding fish or snails to the ecosystem.
 The next step in the food chain of your ecosystem is to add micro-critters such as small pond snails, daphnia, and micro-planarians. These will serve as food for all of the fish that don’t eat plants or algae. Aged aquarium media is a good way to seed your tank. This can be purchased at the fish or pet store.Most of these organisms can’t be seen by eye, but you should wait at least two weeks for them to get fully established before adding fish.
 Once the plants and microorganisms have been established you can start to introduce larger fish into the tank. You want to start with smaller organisms like a guppy, Endler’s livebearer, or cherry shrimp and only add one or two at a time. These fish also reproduce quickly and serve as a great diet for larger fish.If you have a larger aquarium, you can add more and varied fish. Balancing your fish is tricky and takes time. Make sure each species has time to adjust before adding more into the mix.

