 See "How To Run Long Distances In Sports" for more information on training, stretching,and preparing for a race. Remember training is the key to success. If you don't train, you might find you're not doing the best you can in a race.;
, Before you step up to the starting line, Drink a lot of water. If you run with your water bottle, still do this. If you don't like to carry a water bottle with you when you run, then drink a bunch of water, because this will be your only drink until you finish the race.
 If you don't know the course, it might cost you. Before the race, jog the course lightly to get a feeling of the trail and know where to run in the real race. Many runners say knowing the course is not that important, because there will always be someone in front of you. Even if you're in 1st place, a trail guide is usually always there running ahead of you, leading the way. But that's not the point. The point is, if you are running, there might possibly be a big gap in between you and other runners. You may not be able to see anyone in front of or behind you. That is why you have to know the course before you run it. This is very important to being a good long distance runner.
 At the starting line, be prepared to take off running. You don't want a late start in a race, but keep in mind you don't want to run before the start of the race. If you take off running before the gun,(Or whatever signals you to start) the race will most likely be restarted. Keep your eyes and ears open at the start line.
 Many people ask the question of how hard you should run at the start of a race. The answer is, don't full out sprint. It may seem cool to you when you are 1st place in the beginning, but it's the end of the race that matters, not the beginning. Don't get off too slow either. Take a running pace, not jogging, not sprinting, but right in between the two. Keep in mind, jogging is for later on in the race.
 Throughout your run reassure yourself if you are nervous that you will do okay, and that the race is not about what place you get, but about having fun. It's okay too if you don't get 1st place every time. Truth be told, most runners don't.
 Jogging is a great way to keep your pace. Most runners jog in the middle of the race. Jogging at the beginning will give you a terribly slow start, and jogging at the end will tell everyone that you are not giving it your all. Know when you should jog, and know when you should not jog.
 When you are running on a trail, especially a narrow trail, always run in the center. Running in the center not only is easier on your feet, but also makes it hard for other runners to pass you. If on a track, always go to the inside of the track. It provides a much shorter route.
 When running, don't try to change automatically from lightly jogging to full out sprinting.
 When in a race, never walk. Walking shows your competitors that you are too tired to run and that you won't put up any fight when they attempt to pass you. If you really are exhausted, jog really lightly. Even that is faster than walking and requires nearly the same amount of effort.
 when you come to the home stretch or the end of the race, sprint to the finish. Even if you are tired, remind yourself that it's not that much further to the finish. You're almost there.
 When you finish (hope your race was a good one) drink lots of water. After a race you should be thirsty from all your running. You know you have run a good race when after the race, you are tired, thirsty and hungry. After you refill with water, your body will thank you.

