 Often, we try to blend in as a way to cope with feelings of anxiety and social awkwardness. Rather than isolate yourself from others, you can try anti-anxiety tactics like breathing exercises and calming techniques. These options can help you stay calm and in control of your anxiety so you do not feel like you have to blend in and be invisible in the world.You can do deep breathing techniques to help prevent you from hyperventilating when you feel anxious or stressed. Do this by breathing in through your nose, filling your stomach with air, and holding it for a count of four before breathing out through your nose for a count of four. Try to take ten to twenty deep breaths or do deep breathing for at least five minutes a day.
You can also combine deep breathing with meditation. You can use guided meditations on tape or online to help you calm down. You can also try repeating a mantra silently to yourself as you do deep breathing, such as “I am calm, I am calm, I am calm.”

, Try to schedule time in your day for worrying or a “worry period.” This could be a set time and place for worrying, where you are given free reign to worry about whatever is on your mind. This could be at your desk from 4 pm to 4:20 pm or in your bedroom from 7 am to 7:15 am. You are only allowed to worry during your “worry period,” making the rest of your day a worry-free space.During your “worry period” you can also create a worry list, where you write down a list of your worries and then allow yourself to consider them. You could list small worries, such as, “How am I going to get all my work done for the day”, and bigger worries, such as, “How am I going to afford my rent”. Once the “worry period” is over, you should put the list away and try to go about your day.
If a worry pops into your head during the day, make a mental note of it and then try to go about your day. Remember that you will have time to think about it later and do not need to consider it now. You can add it to the worry list at the end of the day.
 You should also maintain a healthy, balanced diet where you focus on having meals that are nourishing and provide lots of vitamins and minerals. You should avoid foods and beverages that are known to cause anxiety, such as coffee, alcohol, and foods that contain caffeine.You can try substituting anxiety inducing foods and beverages with healthy alternatives, such as herbal teas and healthy snacks. You can also try to give up coffee if you find it is causing you anxiety and stress.
 You should also practice healthy lifestyle habits to keep your anxiety at bay. You should aim to do about 30 minutes of exercise a day to ensure you are getting your body moving and release endorphins, which will improve your mood and reduce your anxiety levels.If you have a busy schedule, try to fit in a 30 minute walk or run at lunch. Commit to going to a fitness class three to four times a week so you can schedule in your exercise.
You may want to try calming physical activities like yoga or tai chi. Doing these activities can help to reduce your stress levels and give you a positive outlet for your anxiety.
 Sleep is also a big part of maintaining low stress and anxiety levels, as it gives your body a chance to recharge after a long day. You should aim to get at least eight hours of quality sleep a night and stick to a consistent sleep schedule, where you go to sleep and wake up at the same time every day, even on weekends.You may also do a calming activity before bed to unwind, such as reading a book or listening to music. You should also make sure your bedroom is quiet and calming so you are in the mindset for sleep.
 You can also de-stress by connecting with nature. This could be a walk in a park near your work or home or a weekend hike in the woods. You may also take up an outdoor sport like trail biking, snowshoeing, skiing, or snowboarding. Getting outside in a natural environment can really help you to feel less anxious and overwhelmed.You may also want to use the outdoors as a way to connect with others, where you invite one to two friends to join you on a hike or go together on a skiing trip in the mountains. Bonding over a shared activity where you are all physically active can make social interaction less awkward and uncomfortable.
 If you are struggling with your anxiety, you may also want to consider seeing a therapist who specializes in mental disorders. You can get a referral for a therapist from your GP or search for a therapist through your medical insurance provider.Your therapist may also be able to help you determine the root cause or causes of your anxiety. She can also help you develop coping mechanisms for your anxiety and techniques to help you feel comfortable in group settings.

