, You will be brought to a page to identify your account.
 Enter your registered email address, phone number, username, or full name on the field provided, then click the “Search” button.
 When Facebook finds your account, it will ask for the password of the account. Type it in and click “Continue.”

, When Facebook finds your account, it will then show you your password recovery options. It may use your registered email addresses, social networking accounts, and mobile numbers. Select your recovery method from the list provided, then click “Continue.”

, Facebook will send a password reset link and code to your chosen recovery method. Get it.
 Click the password reset link and you will be brought to the page where you can enter your new password. Key it in and confirm it before clicking the “Continue” button.


If you opted to use the code instead of clicking the link, go back to the page you’ve left from Step 5. You will see a box where you can enter the six-digit code. Enter the code and click the “Continue” button. You will be brought to the password reset page. Key in a new password and click “Continue.”

, Since you’ve reported that your account was compromised, Facebook will help you secure your account after you’ve reset your password. It will verify any recent changes to your account to ensure they all came from you. Click the “Continue” button.


You will be presented with a list of your email addresses previously recorded on Facebook. Tick the email addresses you want to keep linked with your account, and click “Continue.”
You will then be presented with a list of apps you’ve recently added on Facebook. Tick the ones you want to keep on your account. All the others will be removed. Click the “Continue” button.
Lastly, click the “Go to Activity Log” button on the new page. You will be signed into Facebook and brought to the Activity Log page. It is recommended that you review all your recent activities on Facebook to really ensure that all of these were made by you. You can delete any unauthorized activities from here.

