 Research shows that being on their stomachs for a couple of minutes supports a baby’s physical development.This position helps them interact with their environment and prepares them to roll, scoot, slide, and crawl.


Always supervise your baby when they are on their tummy. Never leave them alone in this position.
Start off with only two to three minutes at a time. Give your baby time to get accustomed to this position.
Increase the time to about three to five minutes as your baby gets used to it.
Place interesting toys and objects around your baby to encourage them to reach for the toys, roll near them, or crawl toward them.
 Babies are naturally active and you can boost your baby’s physical development by being active with them.When you see your baby being active, do things that encourage them to continue their activity.


Lay down on the floor or bed with your baby and provide toys for them to look for, grab at, and move towards.
For example, you can encourage your baby to move their arms by holding a brightly colored toy out to them.
If your baby is starting to roll over or crawl, lie or sit close to them on the floor and let them use you to pull themself up or to stop themselves from moving once they start rolling.
 This is a great way to support your baby’s physical development while getting physical activity yourself.Doing yoga with your baby also supports your baby developing a secure bond with you.


Attend parent/baby yoga classes in your community for the opportunity for you and your baby to socialize with others.
Check with your baby’s pediatrician before beginning a yoga program with your baby.
Wait until your baby is about 4 months and shows good neck and head control before beginning yoga with them.
 As your baby develops their gross and fine motor skills there will be lots of times they will need you to help them pull up, balance, or just hold their hand.Give your baby the support they need to develop physically.


Let your baby hone their fine motor skills by giving them your finger (or nose) to grasp.
Let your baby use you to pull themselves up when they start to stand.
Remember that your baby will also use other things besides you to be active. Be careful when you leave your baby alone.
For example, a baby starting to walk will use the edges of tables, chairs, and other nearby furniture and objects to help them stand and push off from.

