 All sims that are at least a child can go swimming. Just make sure that there is a pool in your neighborhood, whether it's a pool in their backyard, or a community pool. To make your sims go swimming,click the pool, the ladder, the diving board, or a slide (with Sims 2 Seasons EP) and they will get in. As sims get more body skill, they will be able to do more advanced tricks off the diving board. Some are really cool!;
, All of these can be found in the buy mode catalog under "Hobbies". Teenage and older sims can go on all of these things.
 Your sim will need st least three body skill points to perform this action. When they do, click on your sim, then "Do yoga". As sims get more body skill, they can do more and more yoga moves. One is where they balance their entire body on their finger! Sims must be at least a teen to do yoga.
 This requires Sims 2 Apartment Life EP. Children and older can jump rope. Just click on the sim, then "Jump rope". You can also select the difficulty: Easy, medium, or hard. As their body skill gets higher, your sim unlocks medium and hard.
 With sims 2 FreeTime EP installed, your sim can dance on the ballet bar. Like the treadmill and bike, the ballet bar is located in the hobby section of the buy catalog. Just click the ballet bar, and then select "do exercises". Your sim will start to dance! Even kids can do it!

, Also included in Sims 2 FreeTime EP, your sim can play a sport. They can play basketball or soccer. For them to play, go to the buy mode catalog and the goal and basketball hoop will be found in the hobby section. Children and older can play soccer or basketball. For basketball, click the hoop, then "shoot hoops". For soccer, sims can play alone or with someone else.
 This means both roller skating and ice skating (Sims 2 Seasons EP must be installed). Just buy a roller rink or ice rink in the buy mode catalog under "hobbies". Note: They are very large, so make room! however, each rink comes in two sizes, but even small is pretty big. They are also expensive! To make your sim skate, click the rink, then "Skate". Children and older can skate. Sims can also perform twirls and jumps (and sometimes they fall!).

