 Potty training your mini pin takes time and effort on your part and hers. One important part of potty training is taking your mini pin outside to go potty often. You may need to take your mini pin out once every two hours until she is house trained.


Make sure that you take her to the same spot every time. Choose a patch of grass in the yard where you want your mini pin to go potty and lead her to the same spot every time.
Give her lots of praise when she goes potty outside. Rub her belly, say “Good dog!” and give her a treat when you get back in the house., Your mini pin will probably start showing some typical bathroom behaviors when she has to go potty, so be on the watch for these. Take her outside to go potty as soon as you notice bathroom behaviors. Some typical bathroom behaviors include:sniffing
walking in circles
walking with back legs straight and stiff

, Always remember to reward your mini pin for going potty outside. Do not use negative reinforcement because it does not help your dog to learn new behaviors. It only frightens your dog.Never yell at your dog, hit your dog, or rub your dog’s nose in urine or feces. If your mini pin goes potty in the house, simply take your dog outside and clean up the mess right away to prevent her from using the same spot again.
You can also clap your hands loudly if you notice her going in the house. This should startle her enough to get her to stop and then you can lead her outside to finish., If you will be at work or somewhere else for a long stretch of time, then it is important to find someone who can take your mini pin outside to go potty.


Try asking a friend or neighbor to stop by once or twice to let out your mini pin or walk her around the block. If you cannot find someone to let your mini pin during the day, then consider hiring a dog walker or taking your mini pin to doggy daycare while you are away.
Your dog cannot hold her urine or feces all day and it is cruel to expect your dog to do so. If you leave for a long stretch of time and your dog cannot go out, then she will likely have an accident.

