 Are you bothered by the person’s behavior because it reminds you of something you don’t like about yourself? Do they talk about things that bother you, but that you don’t want to speak up about? Taking a good hard look at the real reason for your disdain may help you learn to deal with it better.The next time you're in the presence of the toxic coworker, observe what they do and what goes on in your head. Take some notes. Later, review what you observed and see if you can find any personal impact.
For example, maybe this person makes hideous comments that you would never say aloud. However, you do think these comments in your head. You may be upset because this person doesn't know to keep such comments to themselves, or you might be envious because you would never dare speak them aloud.
 You don’t want to turn into that toxic co-worker you can’t stand. A good way to stop that from happening is to find out how they got there. You may be able to prevent that by putting yourself in their shoes. Taking a look at something through their eyes may shed some light onto the situation.


For instance, reflect on your own attitudes and think about how you’re acting towards them. Think about how you are perceived by them, especially if it is you that they often lash out at. Is it something you are doing unconsciously? If so, change your ways and they may change theirs. You may also stop yourself from becoming so negative, as well.Try to learn whatever you can from the situation and view it as an opportunity for growth. This may help to make the situation into something positive.
 Keep yourself busy and try not to pay attention to what they’re doing. Try not to give yourself any downtime. Doing so can stop you from engaging with them and give you an excuse if they attempt to engage with you.


For instance, if they walk into your office or desk and attempt to have a conversation, you could say, “I’m sorry. I don’t have time to talk. I really need to get this work done.” You’re not lying and it sends a message., Sometimes you just can’t make a situation better. You may not be able to change the person’s ways. Instead of staying around and waiting for something to happen, while the toxicity tears away at you little by little, your best option may be to leave.


There’s not much chance that the person in question will leave or get fired. Unfortunately, you may have to make the move. Doing so may seem difficult at first, but it will likely be better for you in the long run.