 For this technique, you will need to use craft embossing stamps, so you will also need to plan a design based on the embossing stamps you're able to find.


You should be able to find embossing stamps at any major craft store.
This technique works best if you want to engrave letters onto a leather bracelet, especially since letter embossing stamps are so easy to find. You can use embossing stamps to spell out names, inspirational words, or short quotes and sayings.You could also opt for a design involving numbers, simple shapes, or simple images. Keep in mind that simplicity is key here. If you want to create a more elaborate design, you will need to use the freehand method.
Before purchasing embossing stamps, make sure that the stamp face is no wider than the width of the leather bracelet you plan to use. Note that plain leather crafting bracelets are also available at most craft stores.;
, Determine how far apart you want each stamped image to be before you start any engraving.


Lay the leather bracelet flat on top of your working surface. Line the embossing stamps up side by side above the bracelet. Move and position the stamps as needed until the stamps are positioned evenly over the bracelet length.
If you cannot get the design to fit, you may need smaller embossing stamps or a smaller design.
It can be a good idea to lightly mark the left edge of each stamp on the leather bracelet using chalk. This chalk should be wiped away after completing the engraving.
 Thoroughly wipe both sides of the leather bracelet with a mildly damp sponge. The leather needs to be moist, but it should not be soaked.


Thoroughly saturate the sponge under running water, then squeeze out the excess moisture. The remaining dampness should be enough to moisten the leather bracelet.
The moisture weakens the leather, which makes it easier to emboss and engrave.
Too much moisture can cause the leather to dry out and crack, however.
 Place the bracelet down on a hard working surface and carefully position your first stamp in its proper spot.


Make sure that the "right" side of the bracelet is facing up. Engravings made with embossing stamps will not be deep enough to show through to the other side of the bracelet.
You must use a hard working surface. If you use a soft working surface, there will not be enough pressure to engrave the leather when you strike the stamp.
If you marked the placement of each stamp with chalk, make sure that the first chalk line lines up with the left edge of the stamp again as you position it in place.
 Hold the stamp securely with your non-dominant hand and strike the end of the stamp with a mallet using your dominant hand.


Strike the stamp one to three times using considerable force.
When you strike the stamp multiple times, make sure that you are holding it in the same position each time. Otherwise, your final design could be skewed and uneven.
After lifting the stamp away, you should see the impression of the stamp design engraved into the leather.
 Place the remaining stamps in their proper place and strike them with the mallet. Work with the stamps one at a time.


Follow the design layout previously planned and make sure that the stamp designs are spaced apart evenly. If you marked the left edge of each stamp with chalk, make sure that the left edges of each stamp line up with their corresponding lines before tapping them into place.
Take your time. Rushing through the process will increase the risk of error.
 Set the bracelet aside and allow any remaining dampness to dry. Once the leather dries, the engraved images should set and the bracelet should be ready to wear.


Wipe away any remaining chalk lines with your damp sponge before the bracelet fully dries.
If you want to decorate the leather further with dyes or embellishments, do so after the leather has been engraved.

