 You will need ½ cup (104 grams) of baking soda, ¼ cup (62.5 grams) of citric acid, and ¼ cup (30 grams) of cornstarch. Put everything into a small bowl, and stir together with a spoon until evenly combined and there are no more clumpsIf you can't find arrowroot powder, use cornstarch instead.;
, It may also help loosen phlegm.Peppermint, on the other hand, contains menthol, which is a natural decongestant. It also helps thin out phlegm.Lastly, lavender does not help much when it comes to congestion, but it is naturally soothing and calming; it may help relieve any headaches that are caused by congestion.If you want something more fragrant, you can use 3 to 4 drops of each oil instead. Don't use more than that, however.
If this is for a child 10 years or older, stick with 2 drops of each oil. Anything more than that may be harmful.If the child is younger than 10, seek a doctor's advice.
 Add the liquid 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) at a time, mixing it in with a rubber spatula after each addition. Keep adding your liquid and mixing until you get the consistency of wet sand and the mixture holds together.You can also spritz the water or witch hazel in using a spray bottle instead. It will take about 5 to 7 squirts.Avoid adding too much liquid, or the mixture may start to fizz.
Alternatively, you can use ¼ cup (50 grams) of melted coconut oil instead. The oil may make the shower floor slippery, but it will help the shower bombs hold together better., Choose something that has a flat bottom; this way, the shower bombs will be able to sit in your shower without rolling around. The type of mold used for baking cupcakes or making chocolates/candy would work great. You can use other kinds of molds as well, such as a plastic candy-making mold or mini muffin tins.


Make sure that you pack the mixture in firmly. If you don't, the shower bombs won't set properly, and may crumble when you handle them., A great place to keep them would be on a baking sheet in a cool oven.
 If the shower bombs start to crumble, stop, and let them sit in the molds for a few more hours. Once the shower bombs are dry, carefully pop them out of the molds, and let them sit on a flat surface overnight., Turn on your shower, and place one shower bomb on the floor, close to the drain. The hot water will cause the shower bomb to dissolve, and to release the essential oils into the air. Store any leftover shower bombs in an airtight container.

