 With benign hypertension, blood pressure can be gradually lowered over weeks or months with close medical follow-up. With malignant hypertension, urgent management with intravenous blood pressure lowering medications are needed.If not, the high blood pressure can damage the blood vessels in your brain, eyes, kidneys, and heart. If you have malignant high blood pressure, your doctor will assess and treat your specific symptoms.


Malignant hypertension is a somewhat outdated term from the 1920s. Today, this condition is more commonly referred to as a hypertensive emergency. A hypertensive emergency is when your systolic blood pressure is above 180 or your diastolic blood pressure is above 120.
About one-third of Americans have high blood pressure or hypertension, but only 1% of patients with hypertension will experience malignant hypertension or hypertensive crisis. The remainder have benign hypertension.;
, If you have blood pressure that is severely high, your doctor will also look for the following signs of damage to your central nervous system:Headache, which is severe, especially upon wakening. This is the most common presenting symptom if you're showing symptoms at all.
Vomiting, without other gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea
Blurred vision
Stroke
Seizure
Head trauma
Swelling of the optic disc in your eye. Your doctor will dilate your pupil to view the disc which normally has crisp margins. If you have malignant hypertension, your doctor will see a blurry disc with distorted margins.
Tiny bleeds in your eye. These are caused by the bursting of tiny blood vessels in your eye due to high blood pressure.
 Symptoms of malignant hypertension affecting the heart are less common. But, they may appear as shortness of breath when you're not active, you are active, or are lying flat. This is because fluid can accumulate in your lungs as your heart is working to pump against it. You may also notice chest pain because your heart is trying to force blood out against high blood pressure supplying the heart. Your provider will do a physical exam to look for signs that are consistent with congestive heart failure, such as:Jugular veins visible in a bulging neck
Blood rising up in the jugular veins of the neck when your liver is pushed on (hepatojugular reflux)
Swollen Feet (pedal edema)
A third or 4th heart sound called "gallops" due to a congested heart ventricle that's overfilled with blood (This can also be seen on an EKG)
Chest x-ray evidence of congestive heart failure, fluid in the lungs, or an enlarged heart
Chemicals secreted by your heart ventricles in congestive heart failure (B type Natriuretic Peptide and Troponin). These are found by lab tests and additional tests may be needed if your doctor thinks something else may be causing the damage.
 Your doctor will run renal lab tests to determine your kidney function. Renal and neurologic findings are commonly found together in malignant hypertension. Your provider will check for:Foot swelling (pedal edema)
A rushing sound over your renal arteries (renal bruits) that signifies obstructed blood flow.
Protein in your urine analysis. Since the kidneys should be filtering out protein, this signals damage to the filtration units from severely elevated blood pressure.
Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN) and Creatinine (Cr) ratio in your blood work. A normal BUN/Cr ratio is 1, and accumulates at 1 for each day that the kidneys are being damaged. For example a BUN/Cr ratio of 3 would indicate that kidney damage has been occurring for 3 days.
 Primary simply refers to ongoing benign hypertension that suddenly becomes elevated with target organ damage. Secondary refers to malignant hypertension caused by another underlying disease. Your doctor will order additional lab tests or imaging studies to diagnose these. It's important to treat not only the hypertensive crisis by lowering your blood pressure, but to treat the underlying cause as well. The following are some secondary causes (and treatments):Pregnancy (such as preeclampsia): Ultimate treatment is delivery of the baby, but symptoms can be temporarily treated with medication if the baby's lungs aren't fully developed and the mother isn't showing neurological symptoms. During pregnancy, hypertensive emergencies should be treated with magnesium sulfate, methyldopa, hydralazine, and/or labetalol.
Cocaine use/overdose, which is treated like primary malignant hypertension.
Alcohol withdrawal: Medication (Benzodiazepine) is used to treat the malignant hypertension caused by alcohol withdrawal.
Beta-blocker withdrawal: Suddenly stopping a beta blocker or high blood pressure medication can cause this rebound effect so beta blockers are actually prescribed to treat the hypertension.
Alpha blocker (clonidine) withdrawal
Renal artery stenosis, or narrowing of the renal artery leading to the kidney: Treatment includes surgery (angioplasty) to expand the artery.
Pheochromocytoma: A tumor of the adrenal gland which is usually treated by removing the tumor.
Coarctation of the aorta, a shortened aorta which is a congenital defect. Treatment involves surgical repair.
Hypothyroidism: Medication, surgery, or beta blockers can be used as treatment.
Aortic dissection, or a tear in the aorta. This requires surgery within hours because it is extremely life threatening.
 Because there are so many factors to consider when diagnosing malignant hypertension, there are no universal guidelines on pharmacology or recommended medical therapies. Your doctor will evaluate your medical history and current condition before promptly beginning treatment.Your doctor will need to take into account drug interactions (especially if there's an underlying cause for your malignant hypertension), the resources available at the medical facility, and the level of medical expertise available.
 Your doctor will immediately try to reduce your blood pressure to safe levels within 1 hour (usually this is a 10 to 15 % decrease). Your blood pressure should continue to decrease of the next 24 to 48 hours, while you're in intensive or critical care. Your doctor will then wean you off of intravenous to oral agents to get you prepared for hospital discharge.


Therapy for malignant hypertension is always intravenous agents/medications. When you're being weaned off of them, you'll be given a reduced amount and given oral medications in the same drug class., Labetalol is a beta blocker that blocks the effects of epinephrine and adrenaline. You will receive labetalol if you've had a heart attack (myocardial infarction or angina) because of malignant hypertension. It works quickly to reduce your blood pressure and is an easily adjustable intravenous medication.Because the lungs also have beta receptors, labetalol isn't the first choice for treatment in patients with pulmonary edema from the malignant hypertension.
 Nitroprusside is a vasodilator, a medication used to dilate or open the blood vessels, reducing blood pressure very quickly. Since it's on a constant intravenous (IV) infusion pump, the dosage can easily be changed to anywhere from 0.25 to 8.0µg/kg/min. It does require a sensor line to be inserted in your femoral artery for continuous monitoring.You'll be constantly monitored while receiving nitroprusside. Because of its rapid action, it can cause a steep drop in blood pressure too quickly. This can compromise how much blood gets to your brain. Fortunately, the dosage is easily adjustable.
Fenoldopam is another rapid acting vasodilating agent that's usually recommended for patients with renal (kidney) failure.
 This is a calcium-channel blocker which works on the calcium channels of the cells within the smooth muscles of your blood vessels. This causes them to expand which reduces blood pressure.Nicardipine is easy to adjust for optimum blood pressure control. It's also easy to wean from nicardipine to an oral medication, like Verapamil.
 Depending on your medical needs, your doctor may treat you using one of the following intravenous medications:


Hydralazine: Used to control malignant hypertension in pregnant women, due to safety profile for fetus.Phentolamine: Used exclusively if you have confirmed malignant hypertension caused by a tumor of the adrenal gland (pheochromocytoma).Lasix: Used to supplement treatment for malignant hypertension. It's a diuretic, causing one to urinate excess fluid. It's beneficial if you have pulmonary edema or congestive heart failure as symptoms.Enalapril: This ace inhibitor agent works by inhibiting dilating blood vessels, but it can't be used in renal failure., You'll need to follow your doctor's recommendations following treatment. Be prompt and consistent when checking in with your primary physician.You'll need to work together to create target goals for your blood pressure. Usually, you're goal will be to get your blood pressure to less than 140/90.
 Make sure you consume no more than 2,000mg of sodium a day. Too much sodium can increase your blood pressure and put you at risk for heart attack and stroke.Make sure you're eating fresh fruits and vegetables and avoiding processed foods. These items can high high sodium contents.


Refrain from buying canned goods, since they contain salt in order to preserve the color and to keep the food fresh. If you do purchase canned goods, look for low-sodium or no-salt options.
 Although activity will be limited until you are out of the hospital, you can resume normal activities and exercise once your blood pressure has stabilized. You can do aerobic (cardio), resistance or weight training, and isometric resistance training. These all work to decrease diastolic and systolic blood pressure.Systolic blood pressure is pressure measuring when your heart contracts while diastolic blood pressure measures the pressure when your heart rests between beats.Adults should exercise a total of 2 hours and 30 minutes a week, according to the Surgeon General. Try to do a moderate-intensity exercise like walking, biking or swimming., If you're obese, your arteries have to work harder to supply your body with blood which raises your blood pressure. Determine your Body Mass Index (BMI) using an online calculator. According to the Centers for Disease Control, if you have a BMI of 30 or higher, you're considered obese.Work to lose weight and reduce your BMI to within the range of 25 and 30.


Reduce your caloric intake and exercise regularly. This is the safest way to lose weight.
 Smoking decreases the amount of oxygen going to your heart, increases your blood pressure and heart rate, increases blood clotting, and damages cells that line your coronary arteries and other blood vessels.If you are a current smoker, you are more prone to high blood pressure, which could possibly lead to malignant hypertension.


If you're having difficulty quitting or cutting back, talk with your doctor. Your doctor may be able to offer supplemental medications or counseling to aid in quitting.

