 Molluscum contagiosum is an infection that is caused by a virus that results in noticeable skin lesions that can appear anywhere on the body. These lesions are small, raised, and white or pink in color. They are usually no smaller than the size of a pinhead, but no bigger than the size of a pencil eraser. Molluscum outbreaks should eventually clear up all on their own (usually within six to 12 months, but in some cases it may take up to four years).There are three main groups that are affected by molluscum: include children, sexually active young adults, and those with compromised immune systems.
One of the biggest reasons that people choose not to let this condition clear up on its own is if the lesions are located on or around their genitals and they want to continue being sexually active.;
, Since the lesions will usually go away on their own, there is often not a pressing need to get them removed or treated; however, if the lesions are located in an obviously visible location on your body (like the face, neck, or arms), you may choose to look into treatment options because that will make you more comfortable.Visible lesions in the genital area may be an indication of another kind of sexually transmitted disease, so it’s important to get these lesions checked out by a doctor.
 If you are especially anxious about transmitting this disease to others, you should consider treatment options. If you are sexually active, have children, or otherwise feel like contact with others is unavoidable, you may want to consider treatment.Transmission of the molluscum virus occurs through direct person-to-person contact or by touching an infected object. The virus lives inside the top layer of skin of the lesion (not inside your body), so researchers believe that contact with the material inside the lesions is what causes transmission of the disease.
 Whatever you decide, you should discuss your choices with a medical professional so they can help guide you to the right course of treatment and answer any questions you may have.


It is never a good idea to try to remove a molluscum bump yourself. Doing so may cause the virus to spread, cause unnecessary pain, create a serious bacterial infection, or cause scarring that might have otherwise been avoided.
Discussing your options with a doctor is important, especially since there are treatments advertised on the Internet to treat molluscum that do more harm than good.

