 Wash your face at least once per day and no more than three times per day. Washing your skin removes oil and dirt, allowing healthy, smooth skin to shine through. When you wash regularly, you also prevent that dirt and oil from embedding deep down in your skin which can cause blemishes, spots, and redness.Touch your skin gently when you wash it, working in gentle circles which clean deeply and also give you a slight massage.
Rinse with cold or warm water. Hot water dries your skin out.
 You don’t need to spend a lot of money to get great cleaning products, such as face wash, astringent, and moisturizer. Look for face wash that doesn’t contain the drying ingredient sodium lauryl sulfate. Instead, look for plant-based cleansers and vitamin or essential oil-infused washes.You can find great cleaning products at your local drugstore, big box stores, and health food markets.
Look for a mild facial cleanser that has moisturizer as an active ingredient. The bottle will likely advertise this on the front.
Again, the dollar store is a wonderful place to find name-brand facial products.
Print manufacturer coupons for steep discounts on moisturizers, lotions, and make-up.
 Applying moisturizer to your skin is helpful in moisturizing the top layer of your skin, but for truly smooth, vibrant skin, you need to moisturize from the inside as well. Drink at least 64 ounces of water per day, aiming more for 100 ounces per day. Drinking water hydrates your skins cells, moisturizing from the inside out, and is a great way to obtain smooth skin on a budget.If you’re in a warm climate or you exercise, compensate for water loss by increasing your water intake. Dehydration can cause a variety of health problems, and will definitely be visible in your skin.
 After bathing and before drying, rub petroleum jelly or baby oil on your skin. You’ll trap the water in between the oil coating and your skin, which maximizes hydration. Once it’s rubbed in, towel dry as you normally would.The dollar store usually isn’t the best option for petroleum jelly and baby oil. Instead, your big box stores like Target and Walmart carry store brand petroleum jelly and baby oil for much less per ounce than other retailers.
 Sunscreen not only protects your skin from the damaging effects of ultraviolet radiation, which can cause skin cancer, but it also protects your skin from sun damage. Sun damage can make your skin look dull, dry, and lifeless. Because sunscreen wears off after a while, make sure to apply it at least twice per day, even if you won’t be spending much time outside.This is one product that you will want to splurge on, but that doesn’t mean you have to break the bank. Look for sales and manufacturer’s coupons.
You can also find great deals on moisturizers with sunscreen toward the end of summer. Just remember to pay attention to expiration dates.
You’ll want two different sunscreen products: a facial moisturizer with sunscreen and a general, all-body sunscreen.

