 Gauze muzzles are not optimum for dogs. They are best reserved for emergencies, when there is absolutely no other option. You should also only use a homemade muzzle like a gauze muzzle temporarily.Other materials that can become emergency muzzles include leashes, ropes, pantyhose, and so on.
Avoid having to use a homemade muzzle by keeping a real muzzle in your dog’s fist aid kit.
You can purchase a gauze roll bandage at any pharmacy (like Walgreens), drugstore, big box store (like Walmart), or most grocery stores.
Check your first aid kit. Many come with a roll of gauze.;
, In an emergency, you want to create a gauze muzzle quickly. Get an idea for how much gauze you'll need by pulling out and cutting off a strip long enough to wind several times around your dog’s head. Before cutting the gauze, wrap it around your dog's head from under their chin to behind their ears. Then triple this length before cutting.The length that you cut depends on the size of your dog’s head. You will obviously need a longer strip for a bigger dog.
Cutting off such a long length allows you extra in case you estimated the size of your dog’s head wrong.
 Pull the strip of gauze out to its full length. Form a loop in the middle of the gauze strip. Tie a knot where this loop closes. You should now have a loop of gauze with long, loose ends on either side of the knot.Make sure the knot is a slipknot so that you can tighten the loop once it is around the dog’s nose.
Tie a slipknot by creating a loop and pushing a second loop through it., You want to approach the dog with the loop open in your hands. In order to place the loop securely over your dog’s snout, make sure you approach from the back or the side. This way they can’t see you coming and will be less startled.
 Although you should restrict use of a gauze muzzle to emergencies, you might want to train your dog to use a muzzle. If a dog is trained, they will be less likely to become aggressive when you apply a gauze muzzle.Use treats and gradual exposure techniques to train a dog to take a muzzle.
For example, you could smear the interior of a muzzle with a treat like peanut butter or wet dog food.
Play with the dog while they wear the muzzle so that they associate the muzzle with positive things.
Take short walks with the muzzle.
Do this muzzle training whenever you would normally walk your dog, such as every afternoon.
 Before your dog has a chance to see what you are holding, slide the loop over their nose. Keep the center of the loop over the end of the dog’s nose for the best fit.Slid the loop all the way back to the jaw line, where the snout meets the face.
 As soon as the loop is around the dog’s nose, tighten the loop firmly so that your dog cannot open his mouth. Bring the loose pieces of fabric around the snout and tie another loose knot on the bottom of the snout., Once the loop is in place, pull the loose ends of the gauze behind the dog’s head. Cross one end over the other. Then tie the two ends in a bow that is easy to undo.Since gauze muzzles are used only in emergencies, being able to remove them quickly is important.

