 For example, the Ace of Hearts can be right-side up or upside down because it's just one heart. Other cards that are NOT mirrored are the 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, and 3.


Be sure to stay away from diamond cards since they are all mirrored.
This is a very simple card trick that anyone can do (there is no sleight of hand whatsoever) and it has a good wow factor. The best thing about this card trick is that you can do it over and over again and no one will know what you are doing. However it does require this tiny bit of set-up.
 If they're not, the trick will never work. This piece of "magic" is simply about orientation of the cards. If it's messed up, there's no trick.
 Do not use a shuffling method that will cause any card to turn upside down. Because of this, it's best if you shuffle the cards, not them.


If you are doing the rift and bridge shuffle, be very careful that you don't forget which side is up and which is down

, When they do, ask them to look at their card and memorize it. While they look at their card, casually turn the deck around so that all the cards you are holding go from right-side up to now upside-down. (This is why choosing those select cards was so important.)


Since a majority of people return cards in the same position that they took them, your victim will unknowingly be putting the card into the deck right-side up while all the other cards are upside down.
 Again, do not use a shuffling method that will cause any card to turn. Find the card that isn't facing the same direction as the others and that's their card.

Watch your victim putting the card back in because 1/10 times they will turn the card. Just turn the card back in a joking way by saying something along the lines of "This isn't my card! Oh! No, it is. Never-mind!"
Don't just expose their card – do it slowly, milking the trick for all its worth. Mess with your friend a little, hesitating sometimes, acting like the wrong card is the right card, and trying to make them laugh. Then you can get to the actual magic.

