 Place translucent tracing paper over your computer monitor or art book to trace from a reference image, or draw your own directly onto the tracing paper.


Avoid tiny pieces and complex lines until you are a skilled inlayer.
Consider which materials you'll use for each piece. Use multiple inlay materials for better contrast and aesthetic.
 Cutting each piece of your inlay out from its own sheet of tracing paper ensures you'll end up with pieces of the correct size. Leave yourself at least one "master design" sheet that won't be cut at all., Place your master design sheet over carbon paper and trace it again to mark the design onto the wood you want to inlay.You may also wish to include a few "reference marks" around the design to help you orient yourself while inlaying.
If you don't have any carbon paper, cut out one of your copies and tape it in place, then trace around it onto the wood. You'll then need to cut out each piece and tape it within the larger design, tracing around its edge as well.
 Cutting them all from one trace will result in undersized pieces. Number each one on its surface and on the master design sheet in the order you'll be inlaying them. Start with the furthest background elements and move to the foreground.


Cut your pieces larger on edges that will end up underneath another piece to create an overlapping effect. You can even cut the entire "implied" piece out, such as a leaf that will be half hidden behind another leaf.
 To ensure precisely cut patterns, you can tape your pattern onto a medium density fiberboard (MDF) and cut it out using a table saw, router, circular saw, or jigsaw with the proper technique:Only use laminate or carbide blades or a carbide drill bit to cut fiberboard.
Use eye protection.
Clean table saws thoroughly to remove debris that could cause a bad cut.
Clamp the fiberboard in place and score with a utility knife before using a circular saw or jigsaw.
 Tape the fiberboard template or the paper cutout onto the wood veneer or other inlay material. Trace the pattern onto it with a pencil, or cut around it directly for materials that won't take pencil marks.


Use an x-acto knife or other utility knife for wood veneer. Score lightly first to avoid slipping along the wood grain instead of the desired pattern.
For materials that can't be cut with a knife, use a jeweler's saw or other precise saw. Always use a respirator mask and a fan blowing away from you when creating this type of dust.
 Make the side of the piece smooth and even so it will fit well with the other pieces and the base material.
 Place the piece onto double sided tape and run over it with your fingernail to make sure the tape is completely adhered and smooth. Remove the paper backing and attach it to the traced wood base where it belongs.


Alternatively, you can use a long-setting glue. This should hold it steady but not attach it permanently to the base while you cut an outline.
If your double sided tape is too weak, try to find the type called "turner's tape" at a craft store.
Once it's in place, use a utility knife to cut off the excess tape so you can see what you're doing.
 Use your utility knife to lightly score the outline of the piece, then deepen the groove slightly. Use a thin, flat putty knife to wiggle the piece off of the tape or glue. Be careful not to break it or damage the base.
 Use pencil or chalk to make the groove clearly visible, then erase the surrounding lines. Erase across the groove, not along it.


Remember not to erase the marks you'll need to place the next pieces.
 A full strength router is the most stable way to cut out a recess for your inlay design. If one is not available, use a Dremel with a router attachment, or a lighter, less stable router such as a laminate trimmer.Set the depth of your cutting tool a hair smaller than the height of your inlay piece – just by one millimeter or 1/32 of an inch.
 Remove the wooden base to the specified depth, but stay away from the outline. That requires a more precise bit.
 Replace the drill bit with a smaller size and very carefully approach the outline of the recess. Stop as soon as you reach the groove.


When you stop seeing dust and rough, frayed wood appear at the surface, stop immediately. You've reached the groove you created.This is much easier to see with a magnifying headset.
 Liberally apply glue to the base of the recess and use a brush to ensure it covers the sides as well.


Use a wood glue for veneer. Use an epoxy or other strong, specialized adhesive for a different inlay material.
Slightly sanding the edge first will create excess sawdust to mix with the glue and disguise its appearance.
Once the piece is wedged in flush or almost flush with the surface, smooth the glue into the gaps with your finger.
 Clamp the inlay to something the glue won't adhere to, such as a wooden block covered with tape. Leave it in place for 4–6 hours or for however long your glue takes to set.
 Remove hardened excess glue and make the inlay flush with the object's surface by using sandpaper, an inlay scraper, or a block plane.


For mother of pearl or abalone, polish additionally with 300 grit sandpaper after flattening the surface with a coarser grit., Move on to your next labeled segment and follow the same process to cut out that piece and inlay it. Remember, your previous piece was intentionally large to make a flush, overlapping effect once you've cut into it for the piece above it.


Remember only to make oversized pieces on edges that will be underneath another segment. The other edges should fit your design as precisely as possible.

