 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cake, set the temperature to 350°F (177°C). and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line the bottom of two 8-inch (20-cm) round cake pans with parchment paper and lightly coat them with butter and flour.You can use nonstick cooking spray instead of the butter to grease the parchment paper if you prefer.;
, Add ½ cup (113 g) of softened butter and 1 ¼ cups (250 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use a handheld electric mixer to beat the two together on medium until the mixture is light and fluffy, which should take 2 to 3 minutes.You can mix the cake batter in a stand mixer if you prefer.
You can mix the batter by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
 Once the butter and sugar are creamed together, add 3 large eggs to the bowl, one at a time. Completely mix each egg in on medium speed before adding the next.If you prefer, you can use egg substitute in place of the eggs.
 When the eggs are fully incorporated, add 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of vanilla extract. Blend it in on medium until it’s fully incorporated., Add 2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour, 2 teaspoons (8 g) of baking powder, and 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt to a separate large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully blended.If you prefer a lighter, more airy cake, you can substitute cake flour for the all-purpose flour.
 After you’ve combined the dry ingredients, mix them them into the butter mixture alternately with 1 cup (237 ml) of milk. Beat the mixture on medium-low after each addition until the batter is fully blended.2% or whole milk works best for the cake.
 Once you’ve finished mixing the cake batter, divide it equally between the two prepared pans. Use a rubber spatula to spread the batter evenly throughout the pans., After you’ve poured the batter into the pans, place in the preheated oven. Allow the cakes to bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until they are golden brown and firm on top.You can be sure that the cakes are finished baking by sticking a cake tester or a toothpick inside the center. It will emerge clean when the cakes are done.
 When the cakes are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Place the pans on a wire cooling rack, and let the cakes cool inside for 10 minutes., After the cakes have cooled for several minutes in the pans, run a butter knife around the sides to loosen the cakes. Carefully turn them out onto the cooling rack, and let them cool completely, which should take approximately 30 minutes.It’s important to cool the cake completely so the frosting doesn’t melt off when you ice the cake.
Be sure to remove the parchment paper liners if they stick to the bottom of the cakes.
 To get the right consistency for the frosting, it’s important to chill your tools. Place a large bowl and the beaters from your handheld electric mixer in the freezer and allow them to chill for about 15 minutes.If you’re using a stand mixer, place the wire whisk attachment in the freezer with the bowl to chill.
If you’re mixing the frosting by hand, place a wire whisk in the freezer to chill with the bowl.
 Once the bowl is chilled, add 8 ounces (225 g) of softened cream cheese, 1 cup (125 g) of powdered sugar, and 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of vanilla extract to it. Beat the ingredients together on medium until the mixture is smooth., When the cream cheese mixture is fully blended, gradually add 2 cups (473 ml) of heavy whipping cream to the bowl. Beat the mixture on medium until firm peaks form.Make sure that the cream is extremely cold when you add it to the butter mixture.
 Once the frosting is completely mixed, divide it between three bowls. You’ll leave one bowl white, add blue paste food coloring to a second, and tint the third bowl pink. The amount of frosting in each bowl will depend on whether you’re using icing or candy to reveal the gender of the baby.If you are using icing to reveal the gender, tint 1 ¼ cups (283 g) of frosting blue for a boy or pink for a girl. Tint ¼ cup (57 g) in the other color, and leave the remaining frosting white.
If you are using candy to reveal the gender, tint ¼ cup (57 g) blue, ¼ cup (57 g) pink, and leave the rest of the frosting white.
 Set one of the cakes on a serving plate, and pipe all along the edge with white frosting. Next, spread 1 cup (226 g) of frosting in blue for a boy or pink for girl inside the circle.If you don’t have a piping bag, you can simply spread some of the white frosting around the edge of the cake with a knife or offset spatula. Using the white border is just to ensure that the colored frosting won’t be visible outside the cake.
 After you’ve covered the top of the first cake with the gender-appropriate frosting and a white border, place the second cake on top. Spread the remaining white frosting all along the top and sides of the cake., Once the cake is fully covered with white frosting, decorate it with the remaining blue and pink frosting. Pipe the colored frosting in dots, flowers, or stars around the cake in whatever design you like.A #8 tip on your piping bag is ideal for adding pearl shapes around the cake.
A #12 tip on your piping bag is ideal for adding dots to the cake.
A #4 tip on your piping bag is ideal for writing a message on the cake, such as “It’s a …”
If you don’t have a piping bag, you can put the frosting in plastic bags, snip off the corner, and pipe simple dots and swirls with it.
 Place one of the finished cakes on a serving plate. Use a large serrated knife to trim off the rounded top of the cake so it’s flat and the second layer can rest evenly on top.To ensure that the frosting won’t get on the serving plate, place several pieces of wax paper beneath the first layer all the way around the cake. If any frosting falls off the cake as you work, it will drop onto the paper, which you can pull away when you’re done icing it so the plate remains clean.
 After you’ve flattened the first layer of the cake, use a large, round cookie cutter or a tupperware lid to serve as a stencil so you can cut a hole in the center with a knife. Remove the cake for the hole and set it aside.The round item that you use as a stencil should be at least 4-inches (10-cm) in size.
The cake that you remove from the center hole can serve as a tasty snack for yourself or friends and family.
 Once you’ve removed the cake from the center of the first layer, use some of your white frosting to ice the remaining edge all the way around. Next, use approximately 2 cups (406 g) of pink or blue chocolate candies in the gender-appropriate color to fill the hole.While you want to completely fill the hole with candies, don’t allow them to overflow onto the edge of the cake.
 When the center hole is filled with the candy, set the second cake layer on top of the first. Use the remaining white frosting to cover the top and sides completely., After you’ve covered the entire cake with white frosting, use the pink and blue frosting to garnish the cake. Pipe it on in whatever shapes you like, such as flowers, dots, or stars.If you don’t have a piping bag, you can put the frosting in plastic bags, snip off the corner, and pipe simple dots and swirls with it.
You can also use blue and pink chocolate candies to decorate the cake.

