 Unfortunately, some disputes between a surviving spouse and children of another marriage cannot be resolved through mediation. If you're considering getting the probate court involved, you need the assistance of an experienced probate litigation attorney.Probate litigation can be complex, and your judgement can be clouded by the emotional fallout from the death of a loved one and this ensuing dispute with family members.
An experienced probate litigation attorney can not only provide you support but also advise you of the best options available to you to resolve the dispute.
Additionally, even if you have a passing familiarity with the civil court system, there are a number of rules that apply only in probate proceedings.
For this reason, you should interview several attorneys and make sure the one you choose is experienced in handling disputes similar to yours through litigation.
 Probate dispute litigation typically begins with one of the disputing parties filing a complaint or objection to challenge or contest the will that has been filed, or the person who has been appointed executor or personal representative of the estate.Probate disputes typically center around either a disagreement about who should be in charge of the estate, arguments about which property should go to which beneficiary, or concerns that the will is not valid or that there is another will that controls.
The allegations that form the bulk of your complaint will vary based on the root of the dispute, as well as the particular probate laws of the state.
Keep in mind that when a will is probated, the controlling law is the law of the state in which the deceased person was a resident – not the law of your state if you live somewhere else, even if you are one of the main beneficiaries.
 Once your complaint is complete, you must take it to the clerk of the probate court where the will is being probated to initiate your litigation of the dispute. The clerk will file-stamp your original complaint as well as all copies.In addition to your original complaint and accompanying documents or required forms, you'll need to bring a copy for your own records and a copy for each person you need to serve. Generally, you'll need at least one copy for the estate and a copy for other major beneficiaries, primarily the person or people with whom you have the dispute.
In other words, if you are the surviving spouse and your dispute is with your deceased husband's three children from his previous marriage, you would need to bring, at a minimum, your originals plus five copies to be file-stamped – four if you personally are serving as executor or personal representative of the estate.
You must pay a filing fee – typically around $100 – to file your complaint with the court. If you've hired an attorney, they may pay this fee and then add these to your bill as court costs.
If you aren't able to pay the fee, ask the clerk for a fee waiver application. If your income and assets fall below the court's threshold, you won't be required to pay court costs for your action.
 A copy of your complaint must be delivered to the executor or personal representative of the estate, as well as the beneficiary with whom you have the dispute and any other major beneficiaries of the will.Service traditionally is completed by hiring a sheriff's deputy to hand-deliver the court documents to those you have to notify.
A proof of service document is then filed with the court certifying that the person had adequate legal notice of the lawsuit.
You also may have the option of service by mail, which means you mail the court documents to the person using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
When you get the green card back that shows the person has signed for the documents, you can complete and file the proof of service document with the court.
 Anyone served with your complaint has the opportunity to file a written response, and you should expect challenges to your complaint as well as possible motions to dismiss.Any written responses filed in the court will be served on you using a manner similar to that which you used to serve the other parties.
The response will differ depending on the role of the party served. For example, court rules may require the executor or personal representative of the estate to respond to the lawsuit.
In contrast, other parties who are only tangentially involved in the dispute as other beneficiaries of the estate may not be required to respond or even take part in the lawsuit if they believe their interests would be better served by staying out of it.
If a party files a motion to dismiss in response to your complaint, you typically must attend a court hearing on this matter before your case will be allowed to proceed.
In a hearing on a motion to dismiss, you will have to argue that your case should be allowed to proceed. The party that filed the motion has the burden of proving that you haven't raised any issue as to the facts and your case should be dismissed as a matter of law.
 Much like any civil lawsuit, after all pleadings have been filed the parties will engage in the discovery process and exchange information with each other that has relevance to the claims you made in your complaint.Discovery typically consists of written questions, requests for production, and depositions, which are interviews with a party or witness conducted under oath.
The scope of discovery will depend on the issues raised in your complaint. For example, if you are challenging the validity of the will, you may need to talk to more witnesses concerning the context within which the will was drafted and executed by the deceased person.
There are some special discovery tools available to probate litigants, specifically designed to accommodate the fact that a key party in the dispute is deceased and cannot answer for themselves.
For example, medical records and information regarding the deceased person generally must be made available to a probate litigation party.
The court may hold a conference and set a deadline for the discovery process to be completed. This keeps the litigation moving so a trial can be scheduled as soon as possible.
 Ultimately, the probate court will hold a hearing in which all parties present their arguments and the judge makes a decision about the claims you made in your complaint.A probate dispute trial proceeds similarly to any other civil trial before a judge. Each party will have the opportunity to make an opening statement, and then take turns telling their respective sides of the story.
You will be allowed to introduce evidence and call witnesses in support of your claims, as well the other parties.
After all evidence is presented, the judge will make his or her decision as to how the dispute should be resolved.
The judge may issue an order from the bench with a written order to follow, or may take the matter under advisement and enter a written order a few days later.

