 Making your Chihuahua’s food yourself is the best way to ensure they are getting food that is free of chemical preservatives, fillers, coloring, and animal by-products. Meat should be the most prominent ingredient in your Chihuahua’s food. As a general rule, your dog’s diet should be 40 percent meat, 30 percent vegetables, and 30 percent starch.


The best meats to include are lean ones like chicken and hamburger, as well as fish.
You can also include organs like liver, kidney, and brain.;
, Round out your Chihuahua’s meals with vegetables and starches. Each should comprise approximately 30 percent of your dog’s diet.


Vegetables can include spinach, carrots, broccoli, and zucchini.
Fruits like blueberries, raspberries, and apples (without the core) provide vitamins and anti-oxidants.
Also incorporate carbohydrates like rice (brown or white) and pasta.
Stay away from corn, onions, raisins, grapes, avocado, macadamia nuts, and coffee as these can all be very detrimental to your Chihuahua’s health., One of the most popular methods for cooking your Chihuahua’s food is to make it into a stew. This is a simple way to create a meal that is nutritious and easy for your dog to digest. While specific recipes may vary, you will generally boil the meats for this stew. Next, add rice to the boiling water for it to cook. Finally, stir in your vegetables at the end.If you don’t want to cook for your Chihuahua every day, you can make a surplus of their food and refrigerate or freeze it until you need it., Some nutrients in food are lost during preparation, so many people like making a raw food mixture for their Chihuahua as well. Dogs’ bodies are equipped to process raw foods so this is also a safe, healthy option for your pet. You will want to keep in mind the same ratio of proteins, vegetables, and starches mentioned above.


Ensure the ingredients you are using are fresh and clean.
You can also make larger quantities of your raw food mixture and freeze some for later meals.
There are some risks with serving your dog raw food, like salmonella, so check with your veterinarian before you include raw foods in your Chihuahua’s diet., Keep in mind that your Chihuahua is small, and therefore, can only digest small pieces of food. Ensure any meats you serve them are minced or very finely chopped. Also be sure to finely chop or grate any vegetables you add. You can also puree your dog’s food.


Chihuahuas can be finicky eaters so there may be a lot of trial and error when making homemade food for your dog. Try different methods and stick with whichever method your dog enjoys most.