 Look online for home hydro dip kits, which allow you to transfer a specific print or design onto a 3-D object (that can be submerged in water without harm) without specialized equipment. In general, companies making these kits will offer an assortment of designs to choose from to customize your kit. Basic home hydro dip kits should include:Patterned film
Activator
Top coat
Base coat
Universal primer;
, Most DIY kits will not come with a container to use during the dipping process. Choose a watertight plastic, glass, or aluminum container that is deep enough to fully submerge the object you are hydro dipping. It should also be long and wide enough to leave 5-6 inches (approximately 12-15 cm) between the edge of the container and the object., Make sure that the item you are dipping is free of dust and debris. Spray the item with the primer provided in your kit, enough to coat it but not enough for the primer to run. Apply 1-2 light coats of the base coat spray provided in your kit, and leave the item to dry for one or two hours.Before applying the primer and base coat, use masking tape to block off any parts of the item that you do not wish to have an image printed on.
 Measure the size of the object you wish to cover and add 4-5 inches (approximately 12-15 cm) on each side. Cut the film accordingly. Make sure that the film remains dry during this process, as getting it wet could cause the image to warp.Place masking tape around the edges of the film to keep it from rolling.
 Fill the container with hot (but not boiling) water, approximately ¾ of the way full. Carefully pick up the film and bring the opposite sides together, holding it like a sling. Place the bottom of the sling onto the middle of the surface of the water, and slowly bring the sides down to place the film flat on the water. , Use your phone or a stopwatch to ensure that the film dissolves for sixty seconds. After the sixty seconds, spray the activator provided in your kit evenly over the film. Once coated, the film should take approximately 5-10 seconds to turn into liquid ink on the surface of the water. When the film is fully activated it will have a distinctly glossy appearance, and will expand to fill the entire surface size of the container.
 Hold your item at a 45 degree angle and slowly submerge it into the water. Once the item is fully submerged, even out the angle by pushing it down towards the ink. Keep your movements fluid for best results.Put on gloves before dipping your item. If they are not supplied in the kit, purchase a pair before starting the whole dipping process.
 Slowly remove the item from the water. Hold the item lightly and carefully, and avoid rubbing its surface. Rinse it under cold water immediately for approximately 3 minutes to remove any PVA residue., After air drying the item, apply an even coat of the aerosol top coat spray provided in your kit. Let the item air dry before applying a second coat. Continue the process until the finish is to your liking.