 What is the number one thing, or theme, that you want people to remember about your speech? Figure that out, and make sure that you get to that point quickly.


You should make this theme simple enough that you can express it in one sentence. Hope and change was President Obama’s theme. Make America great again is Donald Trump’s theme.
Almost everyone knows these themes because they are simple and easy to remember. Politicians understand that simplicity is memorable. They find a way to capture what they will do and believe in a single theme.Once you figure out this theme, and you figure out how to capture it in a single, memorable sentence, make sure that you repeat it several times in your speech. It’s important to mention it fast, and at the end, and return to the theme in the middle too.;
, You want to use your introduction to develop an immediate report with your audience and to introduce your key theme.


It can be a good idea to give people your name so they remember it more. Unless it’s obvious, tell people the position you are seeking. You could start the speech with an anecdote, a quip or a strong quote.Make sure the opening of the speech stands out. Don’t be afraid to offer a little humor, but make sure that it’s immediately clear what you would bring to the table.End the introduction with a concise preview of the issues that you plan to discussion. For example, “If elected school president, I will focus on lengthening lunch hours, adding more student clubs, and reducing student fees.”

, You can find many of the best campaign speeches in history online. You should read them.Read the written speeches if you can find them, and then try to watch candidate speeches on You Tube. You will get a sense of what works and what doesn’t and how the speeches are organized.
If you’re running for a student position, review sample student campaign speeches. There are many of these templates online.
 You don’t want to be too generic, repeating boring campaign slogans that everyone will use.


Instead, figure out what sets you apart from the other candidates. Perhaps it’s because you’ve held a leadership position before. Perhaps it’s because you used to run a small business.
Whatever your unique selling position is, make sure that you reveal it to the audience early on in the speech. Tell the audience an anecdote relating to this uniqueness in order to make the point memorable. Make sure the unique point you bring out has a direct linkage to the audience’s needs and your campaign promises. #*For example, if people are concerned about the economy, and you have training in economics, and your opponents do not, mention it.

