 This is a type of ethernet cable used for connecting two devices of the same type. If you have an older mac, you must use a crossover cable. Look for one online or find it at your local computer store. There is no aesthetic difference between regular ethernet cables and crossover cables, so be sure you are getting the right cable.
 Some newer macs do not have this port anymore, so you may need to get an adapter to connect to a USB port.


The cable should "click" when inserted correctly.
 You should see two dropdown menus in the top of the window, labeled "Location" and "Show."

, You should see a list of port configurations, such as "Internal Modem" and "Built-in Ethernet." Be sure that "Built-in Ethernet" is checked. Click apply to commit the changes.
 On the top of the window, you should see the computer name and a list of services beneath it.


Select the checkbox next to the "Personal File Sharing" service.
Beneath the list of services, there will be an address starting with "afp." Write this address down because it will be the address that other computers will need to know in order to connect over LAN

, In the top menu, you should see a Go category. Click on Go to select an option from the corresponding dropdown menu. You should see an option called "Connect to Server." You can also just press ⌘K to get to the "Connect to Server" window.
 A list of IP addresses will appear in the list beneath "Favorite Servers." Find the IP address of the other computer, click on it, and then click Connect.


If you do not know the IP address of the other computer, user our article on how to find an IP address on a mac to determine the correct address.
 These credentials will be the same credentials used if you were logging in to the computer normally.
 All of the files in the other computer are on different volumes. If you want, you can select to mount all the volumes on the other computer. Or, if you know which volume contains the files you want, select that volume.
 You can now transfer data between the two computers without external devices.

