 In this type of legal action, a large group of people (the plaintiffs) file a single lawsuit against a company or individual, (the defendant) for similar or identical grievances. All of the people who participate in a class action lawsuit share similar circumstances, injuries, and damages.Filing a class action lawsuit eliminates each person from having pay a lawyer to file a separate lawsuit.
Specific individuals are named as the lead plaintiffs in a class action lawsuit, who have claims that like those of the other plaintiffs involved in the suit.
The people who are plaintiffs in a class action lawsuit are collectively referred to as the class.
Typically, there are at least 30 people involved in order to justify a class action lawsuit. However, there is no minimum number of plaintiffs required to file a class action lawsuit.
Common class action lawsuits may involve people who took a certain drug that has a bad side effect or people who bought a certain product that caused injuries.;
, A plaintiff in a class action lawsuit must have had the same or similar experience with the defendant as other members of the class. The evidence against the defendant must be similar for everyone in the class. A class action is only appropriate when individual lawsuits, even by multiple people, against the defendant would not be efficient or cost-effective for the court system., While all class action lawsuits follow the same general rules and procedures, the subject of these lawsuits can differ widely. There are four basic types of class action lawsuits:


Securities class actions are brought on behalf of a group of investors or stockholders who have been injured as a result the improper conduct of a business. For example, the improper conduct at issue might include misstating the company’s earnings, concealing or misrepresenting risks that the company is taking, or otherwise engaging in or hiding illegal activity.
Products liability or personal injury class actions generally are filed when a defective product, such as a drug with harmful side effects, or a mass accident, such as a toxic chemical spill, harms a large group of people.
Consumer class actions may occur when many consumers are injured by a company’s illegal business practices. Some common examples of this type of lawsuit involve illegal charges on bills, illegal penalties for late payments, and failure to comply with consumer protection laws, like the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.
Employment class actions typically are brought on behalf of employees of a company for violations of labor laws, such as wage laws, laws related to a safe working environment, and illegal employment discrimination.
 This kind of suit does not technically become a class action lawsuit until the judge finds that it meets all the requirements of a class action lawsuit. The judge then must formally certify the suit as a class action lawsuit before any further action can take place., If there is already an existing class action lawsuit, you may be able to simply join the class. You often will receive a written notice by mail informing you that you have been named as part of a class in a class action lawsuit. If so, you can simply follow the instructions in the notice in order to participate.


In most cases, you do not have to do anything to participate in the case. This is the case, for instance, if you are part of a class who purchased a certain product that later was found to be defective.
If you are a class member who was seriously injured by a defective product, however, you may want to take a more active role in the class action lawsuit by attending settlement discussions with other class members and the attorneys for the class.
If you don’t want to participate in the case, you have to take some action to opt out, which typically is to provide written notice that you want to opt out. You may choose to opt out if you would rather bring your own lawsuit rather than participate in the class action lawsuit. If you don’t opt out, you cannot bring your own lawsuit against the defendant.
 Sometimes, you might think that you should be included in a class, but you don’t receive a written notice. If this is the case, you may be able to join it if you qualify. You can even search a database online for pending class actions by clicking here.If you have the same injuries that were caused by the same defendant as the other class members, you have the right to join the class.
Look online for information on the class. In many cases, there will be a website that gives you information about the class action lawsuit, including how to join the class.
Research public records for pending law suits regarding similar complaints or grievances.
If you see an advertisement in a newspaper or magazine about a class action lawsuit, you can call the number in the advertisement to get more information on joining the class.
You typically will join the class by contacting the attorney for the class. The attorney will investigate your situation and determine whether your injury and situation are similar enough to the other class members.
 A class action lawsuit is typically started by one or more people who feel that they have been treated wrongly by a defendant, which is usually a company or business. You will need a group of people together to approach an attorney about filing a class action lawsuit on your behalf.Take steps to identify other people who have the same complaint as you about the defendant. Although there is no certain number of people required to file a class action lawsuit, there are generally about 30 people who have been injured by the same defendant in the same way in order for a class action lawsuit to be practical and cost-effective.
Check with friends and others in your network to see if others share your desire to file a class action lawsuit.
Advertise in publications to find others who might have similar complaints or grievances and an interest in joining in the class action lawsuit.
 The materials that might support a class action lawsuit include receipts, deeds, correspondence and other official papers of significance. Your attorney will want to have copies of any such evidence, and the attorney for the defendant may request it, as well., Since these suits are complex, he or she must have a significant amount of experience representing plaintiffs in class action lawsuits. These types of lawsuits are often the subject of newspaper articles, as they are big lawsuits that tend to be well-publicized.


If there is no class action lawsuit attorney in your area, contact those who are closest to your area and who seem to handle similar sorts of cases. A class action attorney may be willing to travel to you for a consultation, as class action lawsuits can be very lucrative for a lawyer, as well.
 If the attorney has handled only securities class action lawsuits in the past, then you probably shouldn’t hire him or her for a personal injury class action lawsuit. Choose an attorney who has specific experience handling class action lawsuits of this kind.
 This means that the attorney will not charge you any attorney fees up front in order to file your suit. You won’t have to pay the attorney any fees until you recover damages from the defendant. However, you will still be responsible for any costs that the attorney incurs in filing your suit, such as the court’s filing fee.


In some cases, the attorney will advance the filing fee and other costs of the case if the plaintiffs cannot afford to pay the costs. The attorney will then seek reimbursement of these fees after the suit is finished.
Many attorneys offer free consultations, which allows you to evaluate them and you find an attorney with whom you are comfortable.
 Once the attorney has filed the lawsuit, the judge will determine if the suit qualifies as a class action lawsuit. If so, the judge will certify the class who has filed the lawsuit. This is the first step in a class action lawsuit. , Since class action lawsuits are almost always very costly and complicated, the vast majority of class action lawsuits end in a settlement. In very large cases involving thousands of plaintiffs, the settlement amount may be rather small for those who did not actually experience any serious injuries. For those who are injured, however, the settlement amount may be much greater.In many cases, the defendant may simply be unable to pay enough to compensate all of the plaintiffs fully. The defendant may have to come up with as much money as it can pay, and the class members will have to agree to split the money as fairly as possible.
The judge often will appoint a special master to help the parties reach a settlement. Usually, a special master is an experienced lawyer or mediator who will work with the class members, the attorneys, and the defendant to come up with a settlement agreement.
 If your class action lawsuit settles, as most do, a judge will have to approve the settlement before the class will receive any money from the defendant. Even if the case does not settle, damages must be calculated prior to going to trial so that the attorney knows how much compensation to request from the defendant.Mass torts involving products liability or personal injuries.
Securities class action lawsuits.
Class actions to stop discriminatory conduct.
Establishment of a damages fund for future victims

, The judge presiding over the class action lawsuit may create a litigation plan for the case if it is particularly large or complex. The particulars of this plan will vary widely based on the suit and the judge who is creating it. For instance, a judge will sometimes bifurcate, or split, the issues into two or more separate trials, if it would be logical to do so.
 Every type of lawsuit involves some time of exchange of information and evidence between the two sides to the dispute. A class action lawsuit, given its nature and magnitude, will necessarily involve extensive amounts of discovery. Discovery may include the following actions:


Taking depositions, which allow attorneys to ask questions of the parties and other witnesses while under oath.
Answering interrogatories, which are written questions that the parties often must answer.
Replying to requests for production of documents, which require a party to turn over copies of certain documents, such as medical records.
 If the parties cannot reach a settlement, the case must proceed to a trial. The trial can be in front of the judge, or the defendant can request a jury trial., If the suit will involve a jury trial, the attorneys for both sides of the dispute will take turns picking jurors from a pool of available jurors who have been called for jury duty. Each attorney will have the chance to ask the court to excuse some jurors from the trial.


The process of choosing a jury is referred to as voir dire. The purpose of voir direct is to determine if any juror has a personal interest in the case or a prejudice that may wrongfully influence him or her during the trial.
Give an opening statement. The plaintiff’s attorney gets to go first and introduce the case to the jury. The defendant’s attorney then has the same chance to do so. Each side will tell the jury what the case is about and what the evidence will prove.
 First, the plaintiff’s attorney will call different witnesses to the stand and question them about the dispute. This is referred to as direct examination. After the direct examination of each witness, the defendant’s attorney will also question the witness, in a process referred to as cross-examination. Next, the defendant’s attorney will call his or her witnesses, and the plaintiff’s attorney, likewise, will have the chance to cross-examine them.


Witnesses may include parties to the case, such as the some of the named class members, or expert witnesses, such as doctors or accountant. The nature of any expert witnesses will depend on the type of class action lawsuit that is involved.
 Each side’s attorney will end the case by giving his or her closing argument, which summarizes the trial and the evidence. It is the last chance that an attorney will have to address the judge and jury.
 After deliberating, or meeting to discuss the decision that it will make, the jury will announce its verdict. The jury decides if the defendant is financially responsible for the plaintiffs' injuries, and to what extent it is responsible.

