 Yes, you have to do the laundry or empty the dishwasher the first time. Don't whine about it or say you will get to it later. Just do it!;
, This way you can tell your parents what is going to happen. You will need to let them know when you have to be somewhere, who will be there, what adults will be there, what the activity involves, and what time it will be over. They want to know you are safe when you are away from them.
 Before you do, make sure that person has good intentions, has a license, and is an experienced driver before you ask for permission. You need to contact your parents when you arrive/leave and ask permission if plans are changed and you want to go somewhere else. If they say, "No", accept it without arguing.
 Shouting back and arguing gives a bad impression and makes you look like a 2 year old. After all, they may be right in not letting you do that activity.
 Do these without always being asked to do them. With homework, don't just do written homework. You should also study what was covered in class and read ahead to be prepared for the next class.
 Don't respond out of emotion.
 They will be able to understand you.
 Your parents will love you even more and will do things you want to do for a chance.
, Just really listen to them, say thanks and tell them you will consider it. This will help your parents know that you are listening and are accepting advice.
 Would you trust someone whom you know is simply using you?

, Even if the party is "just getting started," go home when you're supposed to. Even better, be home before you are asked to be home. Remember: is one trivial party going to be worth the trouble and distrust you're going to get (in)?

, This will make arguments and scoldings end quicker, and will keep them less angry at you.
 in a calm and cool manner.
 Doing something that is illegal or not permitted will be one of the fastest ways to lose your parents trust.
 This will help to gain their confidence fast.
 Learning to bite your tongue is a great skill learned as you mature. Arguing, asking over and over, badgering them, twisting their words, trying to guilt them, pleading, trying to make deals with them, etc. will only put you that much further away from earning their trust.
 Your parents want to know you have the good decision making skills of choosing friends or people to hang out with that are only going to be a positive influence in your life.

