 Navigate to https://www.airbnb.com/login. Alternately, you can reach the Airbnb login screen by going to Airbnb’s homepage at https://www.airbnb.com and clicking on “Log In” in the upper right-hand corner. Enter your email address and password. If you signed up for Airbnb through Facebook or Google, click the respective button instead.

If you lost your password, click the link under the Password field that says “Can’t log in?” Enter the email address you used to sign up for Airbnb. Check your email and click the link to reset your password.
 Click on the tab that says “Reviews By You.” Select the user profile you wish to post a review about.

Your stay must be completed and you’ll need to be checked out of the location before writing your review.
You have fourteen days from the time of checkout to submit a review about your stay., Rate the stay in various categories, on a scale from one to five stars. Half stars are acceptable throughout the rating scale. Rate the accuracy, communication, cleanliness, location, check in, and value of your stay., Type your review into the text field. Keep your review within 500 characters (including spaces and punctuation). You may want to write your review in a text-editing program first. When you’re finished, copy and paste it into the text field of your Airbnb review.Have the text-editing program check your spelling. View your character count occasionally as you go.
It’s also a good idea to write your review in a text-editing program first because you don’t want to lose the text you’ve written if there’s a problem with the website or your internet connection as you try to submit your review.
 Make sure you’ve complied with Airbnb’s Content Policy, viewable at https://www.airbnb.com/help/article/546/what-is-airbnb-s-content-policy. Click the “Enter” button to submit your review. Go back to the “Reviews By You” tab or refresh the webpage to ensure that your review was posted.

For example, the content you submit can’t be profane, threatening, or illegal.
Your review must represent the personal experience of you or your travel companions during that stay.

