 If you’d like to make your Christmas cards personal, but don’t have the time or money to do it by hand, using an online service such as Shutterfly or PSPrint is an excellent option. There are also a variety of different formats you can use from individualized designs to photo cards.


You can get a sense of the different card formats from online services by looking at different websites such as Shutterfly, PSPrint., Once you’ve had a chance to see the different options of card formats and services available online, decide which one best suits your wishes and needs.


Most online services, including Shutterfly and PSPrint, will allow you to customize your messages and designs from a simple template as you like.
Make sure to check the prices for the cards. The more elaborate your card, the more expensive it’s going to be. Generally, the more cards you buy, the cheaper your order will be.
 After looking at the different motif options for the front of your card, choose one and enter it into the online interface.


Write a message on the card if there isn’t one. You may also have the option to include an additional message to anything that may already appear as a part of your design.
If you are making a photo card on a service like Shutterfly, you’ll likely only have one side to your card. If this is the case, add your message to the front. Remember not to put too much on a one-sided card, though., You might want to include additional decorative motifs or a personalized message inside of each card.


If there is a pre-formulated message inside the card, you may have the option to rewrite it as you like.
 Before you place your order, check each aspect of the card to make sure there aren’t any mistakes. If there are, fix them and then check until the card is exactly how you like it.


Also check to make sure your designs and messages match one another. You wouldn’t want a blue and silver traditional front design with a green and red modern inside motif.
 Once you’ve designed and personalized your Christmas card, place your order with the online service.


Print out the confirmation in case there is a problem with your shipment or with the design.
When the cards arrive, also check them for any mistakes from your original order.

