 Are you competing individually or on a team? It may be difficult for some people to work with others and for some working on a team is a dream. Though it will be a lot more work on your own, it may be best for you. On the other hand, if you like collaboration and exchanging ideas then be apart of a group.;
, Choose someone on your team that knows the game inside and out. Have this person be the point of contact and keep your team up to date with your game’s progress during the selection process. If your team does get chosen, your Team Captain must speak on behalf of your team and the game itself so choose wisely amongst your peers.
 Don’t walk into uncharted territory if you absolutely cannot contend with those more experienced than you. What separates an amateur from a professional in the game industry is only a matter of two years, but it makes a difference to wait a little while before you can contend with the big boys. If you don’t have much experience but can still create a great game, then choose the non-professional challenge. If you’ve been in the industry for a while and think you’re hot stuff, then compete in the professional challenge.
 Quite possibly to most arduous task you will ever come across. It will either be really easy or super hard if you put too much thought into it. You will need to fill out as much information as you possibly can about you, your team and your game. Keep everything brief, yet concise and to the point. Your submission (along with THOUSANDS of others) will go through a set of judges. Make yours stand out amongst the rest of them. What makes your game great? Highlight that.
 #There’s going to be a lot of people who are going to test your game which is why so many copies must be made. Once again, you need to submit 10 copies of your game on CDs, DVDs and 10 sets of any special equipment or hardware that goes with your game. Things like: graphics cards, 3D glasses, controllers, etc etc. Furthermore, you guys will need to categorize your game into 3 categories—casual, core or cause. And lastly, you should have an installer that comes with your game and a document with instructions. I realize that it’s a long process for anyone and everyone who decides to enter the Indie Game Challenge, but you need to be meticulous and follow these guidelines for success.
 This is where things can get fun. Be creative! Your elevator pitch must be at 60 seconds or less. This is your chance to wow all the judges with your savvy and wit. Create a trailer, commercial, public announcement, anything that will catch the judge’s attention. Have fun with this one!

, Simple as this is, there are going to be entrants out there that miss this step. So don’t! Double check, or triple check all your steps up and to this point. You wouldn’t want your submission to be thrown away because you didn’t have the right materials in do you? Of course not! All entries must be submitted via PayPal for $100 via the contest website (www.indiegamechallenge.com), but if you’re super cool and have a GameStop Edge Membership then you only need to pay $75. If you’re one of the lucky people in Arizona, Connecticut, Maryland, North Dakota, and Vermont…you don’t have to pay an application fee! (By law). Keep in mind that all the entry fees that will be received go towards game development scholarships. Not towards any leisurely activities for the promoters. It’s for those who put in the hard work day in and day out to make a great game. And besides, $100 isn’t that much as you probably put more than that into your game anyway. It’s for you and your future as a game developer. Don’t take cost into consideration when a big opportunity like this comes along.
 For more information about the Indie Game Challenge, visit the official website www.indiegamechallenge.com and click the ‘Official Rules’ button for more clarification on submission.

