 It is not always necessary to use a mat but it can accent certain colors in your poster and frame it nicely.


You may not want a mat when framing a vintage poster or a poster of a classic work of art but that is completely your choice.;
, You will want a color that can go with everything, including your room, the frame and the picture. It is usual to put a white or light colored map on top of an accent color. The accent color would be a color that matches the general tone of the poster.


There can be multiple general tones of the poster so you can choose whatever looks best to you and fits the rest of your room. It is also your choice whether you use two mats or only one.
Black and white pictures will do best with cool whites or grays, or even black.
You do not want to upstage the poster if using a mat. Choose colors that work well with a width of at least 1.5 inches (3.8 cm). Smaller widths can easily be used for posters because they are so large to begin with. As always though it is your personal choice.
You also do not want the top mat to be lighter than the lightest color in the picture or darker than the darkest color in the picture.
 Knowing where you will put the poster will help you decide on the particular frame you should purchase because you will know the general color scheme and theme of the location.


If you do not know where it will be placed or it is a gift then that is not a problem. There are plenty of generic frames that will look good in a variety of locations.
 You will need the length and width to determine the size of the frame you must purchase. The thickness is important because many frames will only accommodate very thin posters and you should be aware of the required depth before buying.


If you are using a mat be sure to include the dimensions (width, length and thickness) of the mat when measuring.
 The extra space in the frame can allow for the decorative or protective background mat and prevent the frame from damaging the poster's edges. The frame must accommodate both the poster and mat.


Measure the dimensions of the area where you will insert the frame rather than the exterior size of the poster. If you measure only the exterior of the edges of the frame then you will have a hard time fitting the poster into the space.
 Choose a frame that has the appropriate style for the room in which it will be placed as well as your personal preferences and the particular poster. Wood frames usually have a more elegant and classy look while metal frames show a more modern or clinical look.


Some plastic frames have been finished to give the appearance of wood or metal. These plastic frames are often cheaper and lightweight, which can be useful when framing posters.
Acrylic frames can also be useful in that they might be clear, which means they won’t cover up any of the graphics., Posters are usually quite large so it is best to choose a frame that is thin to balance out the shapes. Thinner frames will also emphasize the poster, making it stand out more.


If you want to create a more dramatic or bold look then choose a standard or wider frame.
 Look for a poster frame that has higher-quality plexiglass, such as Acrylite OP-3, that is 1/8 inch (0.31 cm) thick. Although regular glass is always an option, it can break or trap moisture inside the frame, damaging the poster. Lower-quality plexiglass may not prevent the poster from yellowing over time.


Higher-quality plexiglass can also be made so that it is glare-free and is much lighter weight than glass can be, making it ideal for large frames such as for posters.
Plexiglass can also be UV-resistant, which is important if you are hanging the poster in an area that receives a lot of sunlight.
Plexiglass is more prone to scratches, even though there are scratch-resistant types., Large frames that fit posters can often be quite expensive so consider searching your local thrift stores for options. You may find frames that have pictures in them that you can remove to repurpose for your poster.


Even if the frame is not the right color, if it is wood then you can repaint it later to a color of your choice.
 It is not always necessary to use poster backing, but you may choose to use it for a more professional look. It is important that the poster backing is acid-free, to avoid quickly fading and damaging the poster. Some frames come with the backing already inside the frame.
 Making your own frame is a good option for those looking for budget options, and/or have a poster with an awkward size for framing. Making your own frame allows you to customize options without paying the expensive costs of a professional framer.This frame might not be particularly strong so it might not work with a glass piece in front.
 It is not always necessary to use a mat but it can accent certain colors in your poster and frame it nicely.


You may not want a mat when framing a vintage poster or a poster of a classic work of art but that is completely your choice.
 You will want a color that can go with everything, including your room, the frame and the picture. It is usual to put a white or light colored map on top of an accent color. The accent color would be a color that matches the general tone of the poster.


There can be multiple general tones of the poster so you can choose whatever looks best to you and fits the rest of your room. It is also your choice whether you use two mats or only one.
Black and white pictures will do best with cool whites or grays, or even black.
You do not want to upstage the poster if using a mat. Choose colors that work well with a width of at least 1.5 inches (3.8 cm). Smaller widths can easily be used for posters because they are so large to begin with. As always though it is your personal choice.
You also do not want the top mat to be lighter than the lightest color in the picture or darker than the darkest color in the picture.
 You will need the length and width to determine the materials you must purchase. If you are using a mat be sure to include the dimensions (width, length and thickness) of the mat when measuring.
 Purchase wood trimming (moulding) from the hardware store. You will want a type of trimming that looks like a frame edge and hopefully has a ledge on one side, such as might hold a poster as a picture frame would.


You will need enough to cover the length of all four sides of your poster, plus extra if you are using a mat (the width of your mat times four) and some more (8-12 inches or 20-30 cm, depending on width of wall trimming) for the corners.
You might only find a plain moulding that has a ledge in it, but do not worry, you can always customize colors later to add some decoration.
 Mitering involves cutting the edges of the wall trimming at 45 degree angles so that they fit together to form a 90 degree angle in the corner. Measure carefully so that you make the edges the correct length.


You will want each outer edge to be as long as that side of the poster plus the width of the other side of the frame times two.
Make sure your opposing pieces on the top and bottom or left and right are equal lengths so that the frame can be squared properly.
Make allowance in the lengths for the mat width as well as the poster size.
 If you want to paint the frame then be sure to do it before putting together your frame because it can be hard to paint once assembled. Choose a color that fits your hanging location, the poster and your personal preferences and goals.
 Use wood glue to attach the pieces to each other end to end. Hold them together while drying by using clamps. Allow the frame to dry with the front side facing down, which will help later on.


There may be gaps in the wood and it may not hold together completely on its own but that is ok. The corners will be attached more securely later.
 Use metal corner pieces to attach the corner pieces. These will be L-shaped and should be the right size, not too big or too small, to fit on your corners.


Make sure the wood screws you use are not too long so that the poke out the front side of your frame. Use short screws.
Drill the screws in carefully so that the wood does not crack or become damaged.
You may wish to use a band clamp to hold the corners together but it is not necessary. A band clamp is a long piece of nylon with a clamp on one side to wrap around pieces and hold them together.
 You may have cracks showing on the front side of your frame. To fix this you can use wood putty to smooth in the gaps with a putty knife to remove excess putty. Then you will have to repaint the corners for a nice even look.
 You can find little clips as part of a framing kit or at a hardware store. You can also not purchase clips and rather staple your poster into place if the frame is wide enough. Tape can also work if you don’t mind the look.
 It is not always necessary to use glass or plexiglass over your poster but can look more professional and finished. This frame is not incredibly strong so glass might be a bit heavy, but plexiglass will work well. Have a piece of plexiglass cut to the correct size at your local hardware or framing store.


Alternatively you might find a piece as part of another picture frame at a thrift store or hobby store on sale.
Higher quality plexiglass such as Acrylite OP-3 that is 1/8 inch (0.31 cm) thick will work well. Higher-quality plexiglass can also be made so that it is glare-free and is much lighter weight than glass can be, making it ideal for large frames such as for posters, although it is more prone to scratches than glass.
Plexiglass can also be UV-resistant, which is important if you are hanging the poster in an area that receives a lot of sunlight.
 This is particularly necessary if the poster has been rolled up for a long time and will not hang straight. Peel back a few inches of the adhesive foam board’s protective film and line up the print with the edge of the board. Unroll the poster onto the board slowly, unrolling a few inches at a time and applying to the poster. Smooth out any air bubbles using a credit card or the spine of a hardcover book.


Use a pin to poke a hole in any large bubbles from behind (through the foam, not the poster). Once you let the air out, smooth it down completely.
Trim excess foam from the board using a knife and metal ruler to make crisp edges.
You can also pay for someone to apply a foam board for about $20 (depending on the area) if you would like.
Remember that a foam board will increase the thickness of your poster and can affect the frame that you choose., Remove the backboard, or whatever is currently inside the frame, if there is one. The glass or plexiglass will stay inside the frame, if there is such a piece.
 If you are using one, your mat can be placed either on top of or behind your poster. Putting the mat behind your poster is easiest, because then you will not have to cut the mat. If you choose to put the mat on top of the poster, then you may have to cut out the inner shape so that the poster can be seen inside.


It can be difficult to cut the edges of a mat accurately and without damaging the mat so you can usually have this completed at a framing store for just a few dollars.
 It is very important that your glass or plexiglass be clean on the inside where it touches the poster. Moisture will damage the poster so it is also very important for the piece to be dry.


You do not want any fingerprints or other oils on the side touching the poster.
Plexiglass is prone to scratches so be sure to clean it only with a microfiber cloth rather than paper products.
 If you are using one, then you must slide the glass or plexiglass into place first. The most important side is the one that will be touching the poster so make sure not to touch this side when putting into place.


You can always clean the other side again, so don’t worry about touching it all over when putting into place.
Hold the piece as if it is a pizza when placing into the frame.
 Adjust the poster's (and mat’s, if you have one) placement inside the frame if necessary. Make sure the edges are even and straight so that it does not look crooked or uneven.
 Attach the poster into place so that it does not shift while hanging. You can purchase small clips for this purpose from the hardware store or simply staple the poster into place from behind. If you are stapling, make sure you do it at the edge and at an angle so that it is secure and does not show from the front.
 Poster backing is not usually necessary if you have attached your poster to a foam board. However, if you have not done so or wish the picture to look more professional, then you should add poster backing to cover the back of the poster.


Make sure your poster backing is acid-free if you are using it or else it can damage the poster.
 You can either use small d-rings (which attach by screwing in) and a wire, or the zig-zag picture hanger pieces (which will be screwed on with small screws). Both of these are available from your local hardware store. Make sure to attach these to the frame, not the poster, so that they are secure and strong enough to hold your poster up.


You may need more than one picture hanger if your frame is particular large and/or heavy. Make sure there are enough to hold your picture up securely.
 Use screws or nails to insert into the wall so that you can you’re your picture on them. If you are using more than one hanging piece, then you must make sure the pieces are level on the wall so that the poster will not be hung crookedly. Adjust your poster until it looks straight and even.

