 Thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water.Be sure you wash between your fingers and at least as far up your arms as your wrist or forearm.Dry your hands using a clean towel.;
, Always be sure you clearly understand the directions on the bottle, or the instructions provided by your doctor.Identify the eye you are instructed to place the drops in, and know how many drops you are to instill with each administration.(Usually it will be just one drop as the eye holds less volume than one typical drop.)
Check the clock to be sure it is time for the next use, or make note of the current time so you will know the next time you are to use the eye drops., Look at the liquid inside the container closely.Be sure you do not see anything floating in the solution (unless there are supposed to be particles in the drops).Be sure the product says “ophthalmic” somewhere on the label. It is easy to confuse ear drops, that say “otic” on the label, with those that are to be administered in the eye.Inspect the container to be sure it has not been damaged. Check the tip of the container, without touching it, to be sure there is no visible damage or discoloration., Do not use eye drops that have expired.Eye drops contain preservatives to help keep the solution free of unwanted bacteria. However once the expiration date is passed, there is a risk that the product has been contaminated.Some eye drops are to be used for no more than 30 days once the container has been opened. Be sure to ask your doctor or pharmacist how long your product can be used once it has been opened.
 Use a clean cloth to gently wipe away any dirt or sweat from your eye area.If available, use sterile dressing material, such as sealed 2 x 2 pads, to wipe around your eye area.Use each pad or wipe only once, then discard.Water applied to the cloth or pad may help in removing any crusted or hardened material around your eyes.If you are treating an infected eye, wash your hands again after wiping away any crusted material before proceeding with instilling the eye drops., Avoid harsh shaking.Gently shaking the bottle, or rolling the bottle between your hands, ensures the eye drop solution is evenly mixed.Some eye drop medications consist of a suspension of particles, so shaking will evenly mix these particles in the solution.
Remove the cap from the bottle and place it in a clean place, like on a clean and dry towel., As you prepare to instill the eye drop, take precaution in every step to avoid touching any part of your eye, including your lashes, to the tip of the container.Touching the tip of the container to your eye can spread germs into the solution, causing it to be contaminated.By continuing to use a contaminated eye drop solution, you are at risk of re-infecting your eye with each drop used.If you accidentally touch the container tip to your eye, wipe the tip with an alcohol pad (70% isopropyl alcohol) to sterilize it or purchase a fresh bottle or let your doctor know you need your prescription refilled.
 With the container in your hand, position your thumb against your skin, just above your eyebrow area. This helps to steady your hand as you administer your eyedrops.Position the eye drop container about ¾ inch above your lower eyelid to help avoid accidentally touching it to your eye area., With your head tilted back, gently pull down your lower eyelid with your index finger.Pulling down your eyelid helps to create a space, or pocket, for the drop to settle into.Look up at a fixed point above you. Focus on a spot on the ceiling or something above you and keep both eyes open. This helps to avoid blinking., Gently squeeze the container until a drop falls into the pocket made by pulling out your lower eyelid.Close your eyes, but do not squeeze them shut. Keep your eyes shut for at least two to three minutes.Tilt your head down as if you were looking at the floor while keeping your eyes closed for the two to three minutes.Apply gentle pressure to the tear duct located on the inner part of your eye for 30 to 60 seconds. This helps the medication to remain in your eye areaand also prevents the drops from going into the back of your throat, which can cause a bad taste.
Use a clean tissue to gently blot any liquid that forms on the outside of your eye or cheek., If your prescription requires more than one drop for each dose, wait five minutes before you administer the second drop so it has time to absorb.If you put a second medication in immediately after the first, it will wash away the first medication before it has had time to absorb.


If you are to instill drops in both eyes, you can proceed with administering a drop to your other eye in about two to three minutes, once you have kept your eyes shut for the recommended amount of time., Place the top back on the container, without touching it or the tip.Do not wipe the tip, and do not allow the tip to come into contact with anything. It is important to keep the solution free from contaminants.Wash your hands to remove any medication or germs., If your doctor has prescribed more than one type of drop, wait at least 10 to 15 minutes before using the other eye medication.In some cases, ophthalmic ointments are prescribed along with drops. Use the drops first, then wait 10 to 15 minutes before applying the ophthalmic ointment., Most eye drops are to be stored at room temperature and some are to be kept in a cooler environment.Many prescription eye drops are to be kept in the refrigerator between uses. Be sure you know how to store your eye drops. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.Do not keep the eye drops in an area that is exposed to direct sunlight., Even though the manufacturer’s expiration date may still be valid, some drops need to be thrown away four weeks after opening.Record the date you first opened the eye drop container.Also check with the pharmacist or the product literature to determine if they should be thrown out and replaced four weeks after opening., If you experience symptoms such as eye pain or excessive watering, let your doctor know.Other conditions that warrant contacting your doctor include changes in your vision, red or swollen eyes, and if you notice unusual pus or drainage coming from any part of your eye., If you do not see any improvement or if your symptoms get worse, let your doctor know.If you are being treated for an infection, watch for symptoms in the other eye. Let your doctor know if you begin to see evidence that the infection may have spread., If you develop skin changes like a rash or hives, difficulty breathing, swelling around your eye area, swelling anywhere on your face, tightness of your chest, or feel like your throat is tightening, you may be having an allergic reaction.An allergic reaction is a medical emergency. Call 911 or seek medical attention the fastest way possible. Do not attempt to drive yourself to a hospital., If you think you are having an allergic reaction from your eye drops, rinse your eyes with an eyewash product if one is available.If you do not have an eyewash product, then use regular water to flush the eye drop solution out of your eyes to prevent further absorption.Tilt your head to the side, hold your eye open, and allow clean water to flush the eye drop solution from your eye., Be sure to clean your hands thoroughly, as you would if putting drops in your own eyes.Dry your hands completely using a clean towel., Before you prepare the child, be sure you have the correct product, you know which eye is involved, and how many drops to instill. Sometimes the medication is needed in both eyes.Check for visible particles floating in the solution, the expiration date, and be sure you have an ophthalmic product.Be sure the container has not been damaged and the tip appears clean and is not discolored. Do not wipe or touch the tip.Gently shake the container to be sure the solution is mixed., Explain what you are doing. Talk to the child and let them know what you are about to do.In young children, you may need to drop a small amount of the medication on the back of their hand so they can see it does not hurt.Let the child see you go through the motions of putting the drop into your own eye, or into the eye of another adult. Be sure the container has the top secured as you pretend to administer the drops to yourself or another adult., It often takes two people to put drops into the eye of a child. One person is responsible for gently holding the child in a comforting way and keeping the child’s hands away from their eyes.Take care not to scare the child. If the child is old enough to understand, let them know it is important that their hands are kept away from their eyes. Consider letting the child decide on how to best accomplish that, so the child does not feel trapped.
Suggest that they sit on their hands, or lie on their back with their hands beneath them. The assisting adult will need to help keep the child’s hands away from their eyes, and the child’s head as still as possible.Work as quickly as you safely can in order to minimize the stress and anxiety felt by the child., Be sure the eyes are clean and free of crusty material, dirt, or sweat.If needed, gently wipe the eyes using a clean cloth or sterile dressing materials if available. Wipe from the inner part of the eye to the outer part.Discard the cloth or wipe after each use. Do not continue to wipe the eye with a contaminated cloth or wipe., It may be helpful to hold or hang a toy above the child for them to focus on.With their gaze fixed upward, gently pull down the lower lid, and place one drop of the medication in the pocket created.Release the lower lid so the child can close the eye. Encourage the child to keep their eyes shut for several minutes. Place gently pressure on the tear duct to keep the solution in the eye as long as possible.In some cases, you may need to hold both the upper and lower lids open while administering the drop., Do not allow any part of the eye, including the lashes, to touch the tip of the container.Touching the tip to any part of the eye allows germs to enter the solution, and therefore contaminates the bottle., Put the top back on the container to avoid touching the tip to any material.Do not wipe or attempt to clean the tip. This can also cause the solution inside to be contaminated.Wash your hands thoroughly after instilling the drop in the child’s eye., Let the child know they did a fantastic job of helping their eye to get better.Even if it their behavior was less than cooperative, praise the child for helping. Hopefully the praise will make the next administration time easier.Providing some type of reward along with the verbal praise can be offered., For children that are severely distressed by the administration of eye drops, consider using another method.Recognizing that this method does not provide the same level of eye exposure to the medication, it still is better than no administration.Have the child lie flat, close their eyes, then place a drop of the medication on the inner corner of their eye, in the area of their tear duct.Have the child open their eye, and the medication will roll inside.Have them close their eyes for two to three minutes and apply gentle pressure on the tear duct area.Let the child’s doctor know if this is the only way to administer the medication. The doctor may alter the prescription or allow for more than one drop to be given as one dose, since less of the medication is entering the eye.Do not give more of the medication without talking with the doctor first. Using more than what is prescribed can cause irritation or sometimes mild burning from the preservatives contained in the solution., Young children or infants may need to be wrapped securely in a blanket to make giving them eyedrops easier.Wrapping them helps to keep their arms and hands secured so they are not able to touch their eyes as you apply the drops.You may need to hold both lids open in a young infant if they are not able to focus on an object once you touch their lower lid.
 After instilling the drops, offer something that helps to soothe the infant.Breast feeding, or offering a bottle, immediately after the eye drop can help to calm the infant.