 Start by making a chain. Chain enough stitches so that the chain will wrap around your head where you would wear a headband. It should feel snug, but not too tight.


To make a chain, you first need to make a slipknot. To do this, loop the yarn around your index and middle finger twice and then pull the first loop over the second loop. Slide the new loop onto the hook and tighten it by tugging on the tail.The number of stitches you need to chain will depend on your hook size and yarn type. For example, if you are using a bulky yarn with a size J hook, then you would need to chain about 44 stitches.;
, Insert your hook into the first stitch in your chain and loop the yarn over the hook. Then, pull the yarn through to secure the slipstitch.

Be careful not to twist your stitches as you connect the ends. Make sure they are straight before doing the slipstitch., Crochet around the circumference of the headband. You can use any stitch you like to crochet your headband, but you might want to do your first one using the single crochet stitch. To single crochet, insert the hook into the stitch, then loop the yarn over and pull through the stitch. Then, loop the yarn over again and pull through both stitches.You can use a single, double, or other crochet stitch depending on your intentions for the headband. If you want the headband to be something you can wear in the winter to keep your ears warm, then a tight stitch like single crochet might be best. However, if you want the headband to have some gaps and look a little fancier, then you could use the shell stitch or box stitch.
When you insert the hook to make your stitches, insert it under both the front and back loops of each stitch. This will help to ensure that your headband lays flat.
 To complete your crochet project, you will need to cut the yarn, fasten the end, and weave in the tail. Use the crochet hook to widen your last loop by at least a few inches and then cut it in the center. Pull the unattached free end of the yarn out of the loop, and then tug on the tail to tighten the knot. Then, use a darning or wide eyed tapestry needle to weave the tail into the edges of the headband.