 Thankfully, you can pretty much stay out of the wedding planning, but you should offer to help the groom with anything he might need, particularly if you live nearby. You will most likely need to get measured for your tuxedo well in advance.;
, If yes, great. (If not, see step 3.) The party is the first of your responsibilities. It's generally held a few days or a week before the wedding, but coordinate with the groom to figure out the best time. The best man is usually in charge of all planning, though some tasks can be delegated to the groomsmen who should also help you pay. The party could range from a barbecue to Vegas debauchery. The plans are usually hidden (at least somewhat) from the groom, so consider what he would like, as a guide. But, start arranging and inviting ASAP.
 Make sure everyone has their tuxedos and that they have all tried them on. Brief them on how to usher guests at the wedding and on where and how they are to stand during the ceremony.
 On the big day, you should be ready to provide the groom with all the moral support he needs. You should also make sure he looks sharp, by straightening his bow tie or making sure his cuff links are on right, for example. Most importantly, a best man must make sure the groom gets to the wedding on time. In addition, there are some other small, but very important, duties you'll usually need to take care of:


Get a check, usually from the groom, to give to the officiant after the ceremony. You may also need to give checks (again, not your own) to the DJ or photographer.
Make sure the groom brings the marriage license to the ceremony. In most jurisdictions, the officiant will need to sign the marriage license or certificate after the ceremony in order to legally marry the bride and groom. You will probably be in charge of holding onto this document, and you should also offer to sign it as a witness after the ceremony.
Make sure you have the ring(s). On wedding day, you are the caretaker of the bride's ring and often the groom's ring, as well. Make sure you have the rings with you at the ceremony. Take every precaution not to lose them.
Make sure everything is in order. Perform any last minute tasks necessary to get the wedding location, the families, or the guests ready for the ceremony. Offer to help in whatever way you can. Keep an eye out for potential disasters, and act quickly to remedy them. The bride's mother will also usually be able to think of a few things for you to do.
 Typically you'll escort the maid of honor up the aisle and then await the groom and, finally, the bride. Depending on the ceremony, you may have to stand up there for awhile. Look sharp and dignified, stand up straight, don't make faces, and don't shuffle about.
 If you're holding only the groom's ring, you will generally give it to him directly. If you're holding both rings, you'll probably give them to the officiant or to the bride and groom individually. Don't worry about the timing, as this will be covered in the rehearsal. Do worry about making sure you have the ring(s), and avoid fumbling to find it/them.
 If any last-minute arrangements are required, you should take care of them. Greet the guests as they arrive and make sure they are ready for the bride and groom's grand entrance.
 For most people, this is the most frightening part of being a best man. It will go a lot smoother if you prepare your toast in advance. It's also a good idea to carry some notes with you, even if you've memorized your toast. You don't want to read the toast word-for-word, but you also don't want to forget anything important. Look good and speak loud enough for everyone to hear you.
 Perhaps at previous weddings you've been deliriously drunk an hour into the reception. Not this time. When the dancing starts, you should usually try to dance with the bride's mother, the bride, the maid of honor, and the bride's other attendants if possible. Be attentive to the needs of the bride and groom, and assist them in any way possible to ensure they can thoroughly enjoy the reception.
 At some point during the reception, sneak out to the car or limo in which the bride and groom will leave and decorate it, usually with the groomsmen. You can tie some cans on the bumper and write just married on the back window, or you can be more creative. This is a good time to finally unwind and play a harmless practical joke on the new couple.
 If the tuxedos are rented, you absolutely need to make sure they're back on time. If the groom owns his tuxedo, you should take it to be dry cleaned.
 Make travel arrangements to get the newlyweds to the airport for their honeymoon, or drive them yourself.
,