 Organic seeds, beans, or nuts are all sproutable, using the same basic method. Make sure you get organic, or pesticide-free seeds intended for edible sprouts. Many commercial seeds, used for planting, are pre-coated with fungicides, pesticides, and other things that you won't want to eat. Experiment with a variety of seeds and legumes to learn what kind of sprouts you like best. It takes a minimal amount of preparation and supplies to start. Select between:



Seeds like sesame, sunflower, buckwheat, or pumpkin

Legumes or beans like mung beans, lentils, chickpeas, adzuki, or green peas

Whole grains like barley, corn, wheat, quinoa, amaranth or rye

Vegetable seeds like alfalfa, clover, radish, kale, cabbage, fenugreek, or turnip;
, Pour in enough water to cover the seeds and let sit. Cover the top with cheesecloth, or some type of repurposed mesh: a woman's stocking, a section of screen, anything you could cinch on top and drain through would be perfect.


Any type of clean glass jar is perfect for making sprouts. Old pickle jars, mason jars, or other glass containers can be repurposed for sprouts. If you've still got the metal ring around the mouth of the mason jar, you can use it to hold the mesh covering in place, or you could use a hair tie, rubber band, or other elastic band to do the same. You can also buy a plastic sprouting lid with a mesh top for draining sprouts.
If you want to sprout microgreens like wheatgrass or pea shoots, you'll also need seed beds, soil, and a bit more time on your hands.
 In general, you should rinse any type of sprouts every morning and evening, then drain them thoroughly to promote germination, without removing them from the jar.


When sprouting legumes, it's common to swirl some water in after a few days to break up the hulls and let the sprouts form.
 You'll control the moisture by periodically rinsing the sprouts, but you'll also need to maintain an even temperature to promote germination. Keep your sprouts between 50 and 70 degrees F.


If your home is especially cool at a particular time of year, you might need a heater. An 8-watt heater for reptile tanks placed under a sprouter will help without cooking them and ruining the germination.
Some sprouts such as radish sprout better in darkness, but they will need to be in light after sprouting in order to turn green and grow larger. In general, most sprouts are perfectly fine in the daylight and normal room-temperature conditions.
 As soon as you're happy with the length of your sprouts, enjoy them on sandwiches, salads, or soups. Put any uneaten sprouts in the refrigerator. They'll keep in the fridge for about five days, but will eventually start to brown and get a little slimy, which means it's time to sprout more and toss these out.


Each variety of sprout differs slightly in the length of time and the proper treatment of the sprouts, once soaked and germinated for several hours. Some can remain in the jar for a few days to grow longer and more tender, while others will need to be replanted onto a seed bed for optimum growth and deliciousness. Consult the specific section below for more information about the specific type of sprouts you want to grow.Some sprouts will need to be dehulled after sprouting for several days. Swirl the sprouts in water to help separate the hulls, and be sure to drain afterwards.

