 Explain to the user what you are going to do before each action, and why you are doing it. Let them know the reason for the transfer if they did not request it, and involve them in every step of the process. Besides showing them respect, this will let them aid you in the process when they are able.
 You will need to move from one side of the bed to the other several times if you do not have an assistant, but make sure to raise and lock the guard rail each time before leaving a side. It's fine to temporarily lower the rail if it gives you better access to the user when assisting them into the sling.


Once the sling is attached to the Hoyer lift, raise and lock the guard rails again before lifting. The user may wish to hold onto the guard rails for stability as the lifting begins.
 If you are using a bed that can elevate while remaining flat, elevate it to the maximum height you can comfortably work on. The higher it is, the less strain will be put on your back when you assist the user.
 For single and twin beds, they should lie in the center. If they are on a queen bed or other large bed, they should lie nearer the side you will transfer them from.


The user should not be on the extreme edge of the bed.
 Place any objects that could get in the way of the transfer on another surface or near the base of the bed. Straighten the patient's clothing or gown.
 Raise the knee next to you and place the user's foot flat on the bed. Tell them that you will be rolling them onto one side and the raise knee will make it easier.
 Gently hold the raised knee and the opposite shoulder of the user, then carefully push them onto their side, facing away from you.If the user cannot stay on their side without support, place a rolled up towel or similar soft object behind their back to wedge them in place. Alternatively, have an assistant gently hold them in place.
 The bottom end should be just above the user's knees and the top end should be just above the user's armpits.Make sure that the loops and tabs are on the inside when you fold.


Make sure the fold of the sling is next to the user, with the open side facing away from them.
 Using the same rolling techniques, roll the user over until they are on their other side, on top of the folded sling.


Move to the other side of the bed if you can't comfortably roll the user from the same side.
If using a wedge, remove it before rolling the user onto their back to avoid discomfort.
 Pull the sling out to unfold it, so that it lays flat across the bed.
 Arrange the user's limbs according to the construction of the sling and the user's preferences. The arms should either be straight and flat next to the body, or extended out of the way of the sling if the user wishes to place their arms outside the sling. The legs should be flat, and either together or slightly apart, according to the design of the sling.
 Check under the bed for obstructions if the lift won't fit. If you need to, narrow the legs using the shifter handle or foot pedal, but always extend them as much as you can once they are under the bed.


The sling bar should be above and parallel to the patient's shoulders.

Always lock the wheels of the lift before continuing.
 Lower it enough that the sling loops will reach the sling hooks, but not so low that it touches the patient.


If you do not know how to lower the boom, return to the section titled Familiarizing Yourself. You should always be familiar with the lift before transferring someone with limited mobility.
 There may be multiple loops behind the user's shoulders so you can choose the loop that fits most comfortably. Ask the user for their input if possible. Using straps, chains, or long sling loops, attach each corner of the sling to the correct hook on the sling bar.


For slings with leg loops, cross the leg loops under the user's legs. Make sure the left loop is reaching across to hook to the right hook, while the right loop is reaching across to hook to the left hook, and that the hooks are set away from the boom of the lift apparatus. This criss-cross helps the user's legs stay together and keeps the user from slipping out of the sling.
Some slings include a flap that can be hooked up to help support the neck and head. This detachable flap may not comfortable for those that are capable of head control.
Keep the open end of hooks facing away from the user to avoid injury.
 Make sure the loops are hooked firmly in place, and raise the boom until the patient lifts a short distance above the bed. Make sure everything is secure and comfortable before proceeding.
 Unlock the wheels of the lift and roll them carefully to the destination. You may need to adjust the width of the legs, but do not do so while the boom is being raised or lower. You should not raise or lower the boom while rolling the lift.


If you are moving to another room, slowly adjust the swivel bar so the user is facing you as you move the lift.
Position the user carefully, directly over the center of the new destination.
 If transferring to a chair or wheelchair, the user should have their hips as far back as possible.
 Only do so when the user is fully sitting or lying in the new destination. Gently remove the sling out from under the user and put it in a safe space.


Roll the patient from side to side, and fold and remove the sling if the patient is on a bed or a stretcher. Use the same rolling techniques described at the start of this section.
Tug gently upwards to slide the sling out from behind the patient if the patient is in a wheelchair or a car.

