 Sweet cream or plain heavy cream are also great ingredients for layered shots. Take into account the flavors of the ingredients. Many layered shots use the same ingredients as popular mixed drinks, so will taste similar. Adjacent layers should contrast with one another. Try layering clear, colorful liquors with opaque liquors. Layered shots are primarily made for their visual and aesthetic appeal.






;
, Heavier liquor will have a higher specific gravity. A gravity chart of different liquors will have to be consulted in order to determine the specific gravities of most liquors. However, as a rule of thumb, the flavored syrups such as grenadine that do not contain alcohol will have the highest specific gravity, and the spirits with less sugar but more alcohol will have a lower specific gravity. Liquors with cream should be relatively light, as should pure or sweet cream. It may be necessary to experiment with different liquors in order to determine their specific gravities.
 The heaviest ingredient with the highest specific gravity will be poured first. The ingredients can be free poured using pour spouts or poured from jiggers or other small measuring cups. It may be easier to pour from a jigger. The ingredients can also be divided into specific small portions with jiggers as seen in the picture.
 This can be done by eye or by pouring the ingredients into measuring cups first. Typical jigger cups may be too large to measure the very small quantities that may be poured.
 Carefully pour the first ingredient directly into the shot glass. Try not to pour on the sides of the glass or splash the ingredient.
 There are multiple ways to accomplish this, some easier than others:










The bar spoon handle method (harder): Touch the end of the handle of the bar spoon to the inside of the glass above the bottom or previous layer without letting the bar spoon touch the rim of the glass. Then touch a pour spout or jigger to the twisted portion of the handle and pour very, very gradually down the handle. The ingredient should course slowly down the handle into the glass, but some may spill. When pouring onto the twisted portion of the spoon it is sometimes possible to direct the flow so that the liquid runs down the top side or the underside of the end of the spoon. Try pouring on different sections of the twisted portion of the spoon and see if your layering technique improves. Regardless of the section of the spoon that is poured down, be sure to keep the end of the spoon against the wall of the glass. This ensures that the ingredient will flow gently down the side of the glass, and helps to keep the handle steady. Also, this method can be used to pour many very fine layers with pinpoint precision and, if done correctly, should result in very pure layers.

Back side of spoon method (easier): Trickle the ingredient over or down the round back side (convex side) of a bar spoon or teaspoon (not down the handle) into the glass while keeping the spoon end against or very near the wall of the glass. The end of the spoon should also be kept above and near the bottom or previous layer. The ingredient should flow gently down the side of the glass and onto the previous layer. Repeat if additional ingredients are to be used. This method may cause the layers to mingle or streak somewhat, especially if the ingredients are poured down the length of the glass.
