 A suit, a tie, and sandshoes. He's the charming bloke in a tight suit who taught me how to get the ladies.
 You'll need to make this suit tight on you. Only allow about one or two inches of space when sizing it. For example, if you've got a size 36" chest, you need a 38" chest on your suit. He never buttoned all four buttons, usually two or three - except in the two part story 'Silence in The Library/Forest of The Dead', which was with the blue suit.
 You basically want something thin, in a colour palette of blue and either brown or burgundy (for the brown or blue suit respectively), and not overly patterned. Alternatively, you could go without one - if you're going to go this route, spread the collar over your jacket lapel. An undershirt would complete the open neck look.
 He always wore slim fitting shirts. With the brown suit, he usually wore solid dark blue or light blue coloured dress shirts (he has also worn a light grey, tan, and brown shirt on occasion) (his dark blue shirts are not navy, as navy blue is far darker than the dark blue shirts he wears). With the blue suit, he wore either wine, dark burgundy, or light blue coloured dress shirts. It should be noted he never wore a white dress shirt with his pinstripe suits, as Louise Paige, the costume designer for David's whole run, felt that white was a very high contrast, given the nature of his suits, so if it looks white (such as in a promotional image), it's actually a very light blue.
 With the brown suit, he wore cream (not white!!!) Chuck Taylors (they looked like they were falling apart a little bit, so try to give them that look, or actually beat up a pair of Chucks). With the blue suit, he wore maroon (again, not red!!!) Chuck Taylors (These were also kind of dirty and beaten up). However, in the episodes 'Fear Her', 'Love and Monsters', 'Rise of The Cybermen' and 'The Impossible Planet', he wore black converse with his brown suit.
 The hair is a little bit messy. Try for a fringe, or the more common sticking up hairstyle.
 The bow tie was quite wide on the ends (more so than in the middle) and was self tie, however a pre tied works just as well. He wore this outfit in the episodes "Voyage Of The Damned", "The Lazarus Experiment", and "Rise Of The Cybermen/The Age of Steel.", This guy has more accessories than Tom Baker! You'll need a pair of 3-D glasses (from the episode "Doomsday"), a clear green plastic water pistol (from "The Fires of Pompeii"), a weird "Timey-wimey" detector (from "Blink"), a pair of rectangular plastic frame glasses (like the kind hipsters use), psychic paper (multiple episodes), and a sonic screwdriver.
 "There's an old Earth saying, Captain. A phrase of great power and wisdom and consolation to the soul in times of need. Allons-y!!!" - Tenth Doctor (The End of Time Part 2, 2010)

