 A dull love life doesn’t necessarily mean that you and your partner are having problems, but relationship problems can cause bedroom problems.If you think that your dull love life might be reflecting problems in the relationship, you need to talk to your partner about your concerns.
You might find it useful to sit down and write your thoughts into a journal. This will help you clarify what you want to say when you talk to your partner.
If either of you struggle with sexual shame, emotional distance or insecurity, it may be difficult to become aroused. Talking about these things can boost your intimacy., Have a regular date night at least once a month and/or a short cuddle session a couple of times a week. Schedule these in and stick to them.


Doing things like this will show your partner that you value the relationship, and will help you two feel closer to one another.The stronger emotional connection that results from this will lead to a stronger physical connection, too., Doing new things together is a great way to get out of that slump and bond with your partner. Experiencing something new together builds memories and helps the two of you feel like a team.The excitement of trying something new can translate to excitement in the bedroom.
 Cooking together is a nice way to bond with your partner. You might even try different recipes that contain aphrodisiacs.


Popular aphrodisiacs include oysters, salmon, pine nuts, and foods containing capsaicin., Most people have heard of the post-exercise high. It happens because exercise stimulates the production of dopamine, the hormone that makes you feel good and boosts your sex drive.

Even if you don’t have a post-workout makeout session, working out together will boost intimacy and build confidence.
If exercise isn’t your thing, explore other things that you can regularly do together — for example, cooking, fishing, playing music, or any other hobby that you may both enjoy., Watch a standup comedy special or a funny sitcom or movie. Studies have shown that laughing gets your cardiovascular system working, resulting in better performance in bed.

Laughing together can also help you have fun despite any life stress you may be dealing with at the moment. It’s important to make time to have fun in each other’s company, no matter how stressful life may be.
 For both men and women, feeling desired is hugely important to arousal and comfort in the bedroom.There are many ways to make your partner feel desired. Some of these include compliments, physical touch, and flirtatious texts.


Doing nice things for your partner beyond the bedroom can help make them feel desired. Even just telling them to relax while you do the dishes, or bringing them home a special treat should have a positive effect., Agree that the two of you will buy one thing from the shop, whether it’s a pair of sexy dice, an erotic novel, lubricant, or something more adventurous.


Have fun while you’re there — some of things you see will be outright hilarious, and it’s okay to laugh. Just try not to laugh too hard, lest you scare or offend some of the other customers.
 It may feel too rigid to make plans like that, but it will also build anticipation.


If he/she agrees, you might even sit down and make a calendar of the things you will do each day. It doesn’t have to be overly specific — for example, one day you could “have a quickie” or “use a toy”.

