 It should be somewhere that is convenient, yet private. Preferably choose a spot where you aren't likely to be disturbed by family members, guests and pets.;
, Place everything that is already on it in piles for sorting. Clean the desk with spray and wipe off dust, etc.
 Use what you find to see what is needed most for a future system. What categories of information are obvious and what bits and pieces need their own box, can or drawer?

, To save time, have boxes and trash bags; separate the "to-shred" stuff and the garbage. Give away all that you can.
 This way, all your office supplies such as printer paper, printer inks, envelopes, pens etc can be neatly stored in one place instead of on your desk. It will be much easier to find what you need and you will know when you are running out of something. On the downside, if that takes up space you can barely spare, use the desk or boxes instead.
 This should relate directly to the work tasks performed in your home office that result in paperwork. They should also be the same as digital files or folders, so that you can match up paper to digital copies with ease.
 How do you prefer to keep your files?


Do you want to file the paperwork in ring-binder files? These can be stored on a shelf, sub-divided with ease and you can see them for quick access. If you need to access the paperwork frequently, this is the best way to store it.
Do you want to file the paperwork in filing cabinets? These can be a great way to keep huge amounts of paperwork. Drawbacks include the cost of the file (although do check Freecycle and auction sites for cheap or free ones from old offices), they are bulky and it's easy to lose paperwork in them, stuck between the many levels and files.
 These are a boon to the home office worker; everything can be keep neatly, found easily (you can see straight through the cover) and stored inside hanging files or binders. Add a plain sticky label to the outside for naming the contents. It's recommended that you use pencil for labeling; that way you can erase and write anew, each time the paperwork is no longer needed.
 If you have more than one filing cabinet, tackle one at a time.


Remove all the folders.
Check their labels (if they have any). Match these labels to your list of categories.
Make sure the title is exactly the same to avoid confusion and mis-filing later on.
 You can never have too much storage space so buy as many additional storage units, filing cabinets or shelves as you can reasonably fit in your home office. Having plenty of storage will make it easier to be organised.
 Self-storage is simple to arrange, relatively inexpensive and available in or near most major towns and is particularly useful for old documentation that you won't have to access frequently. A storage unit at a self-storage facility will help keep your home office de-cluttered when there simply is not space to store everything at home.
 Get a binder and an application for each. Make a flow-chart of your daily routine of the most important things you must do.


For example, if you are in sales, get a good CRM and have a method to get information to customers on the fly.
 Apps can help you keep the home office operations running smoothly, helping you to keep clutter to a minimum.


Windows apps you might find handy include: COZI calendar for family (all kids stuff in here; teach them to add their events); SFDC; Smartforms 365; Camtasia; Createbook; Evernote; Project Timeline; Qool; SmartDraw (to make infographics, timelines, etc); and your own website.

