 To get hired by most businesses or organizations, you will need a few pieces of paperwork and identification. The first thing you may need is a driver’s license, but you may be able to substitute another form of photo ID like a passport if you don’t yet have a driver’s license. Know your social security number, and possibly have the social security card itself for when you fill out applications and tax documents. Lastly, it is possible you’ll need a specific work permit of some kind, possibly signed by your parents, to show that you are legally allowed to work.It is in your best interest to gather all of these before officially filling out applications or tax papers so you’ll have them ready if you do need them.
 It may not be entirely necessary to have a resume for many of the jobs you’ll be looking for, but there is still a benefit to doing it. You may not even have any work experience to speak of, but you can craft a resume that highlights what you do have to offer. It can be worthwhile to list academic accomplishments which show that you are a hard worker. But a resume can help you highlight some soft skills like how energetic you are, show you are reliable, and let you talk yourself up, in general.If you have volunteer experience, you can list that and explain what ways it has helped you become a better worker. Maybe you were a top seller in a recent fundraiser, which shows you have sales capability. Maybe you won top prize in a science fair, which shows you know how to work with complex mechanisms.
A resume is all about making you look like the best candidate, so craft it to fit the jobs you are looking at. Find ways to prove that you have the skills the hiring personnel are looking for.
The other benefit of a resume when you’re only 16 is that many other people your age will not have written a resume, so it gives you a bit of an edge over them.
 Even many adults struggle with the interviewing process, so it is always good to think about it and practice ahead of time. Ask your parents or other adults what types of questions they were asked. If you know other teenagers who work at places you are applying, ask them what type of interview they went through. Compile a list of some basic questions that you are likely to be asked and have some good answers ready for those questions.Sample questions might be: What can you offer this company? What makes you qualified for this job? What experience do you have that makes you a good candidate for the job?
It is also helpful to just keep a positive attitude going into an interview. Tell yourself that you are ready and that you are a great choice for the job. It’s hard to convince someone else if you aren’t convinced yet.
 Something that will make you a better job candidate is having something extra to offer, outside of job specific skills. Going through a training course for CPR, getting certification for basic first aid, or attending a customer service seminar will give you an edge over other young applicants.


For babysitting, CPR and first aid would be a great help. Parents will likely feel more at ease knowing you have some training for emergency situations. These would also both be great for jobs like being a lifeguard at the community pool.

