 Poor visibility is extremely dangerous while driving, especially in winter, so it's important to ensure that your windshield wipers are in good working condition.


Old blades are prone to cracking, tearing or simply not working when faced with the icy precipitation that's beating against your windshield. Examine yours to see whether the rubber is cracked or frayed, and keep in mind that wiper blades are supposed to be replaced every 6 to 12 months. You could also consider buying wiper blades specifically designed for winter weather.Fill the windshield washer reservoir with fresh washer fluid. Some washer fluids have a defroster additive and a lower freezing temperature, making them a good choice for the cold winter months.;
, Maintaining the correct tire pressure for your vehicle is very important during the winter months. Deflated tires have decreased traction, making them more prone to slipping on icy surfaces.


Keep in mind that your tire pressure will be affected by the decrease in temperature — in fact, for every 10 degree F drop in temperature, the air pressure in your tires will be reduced by about 1 PSI. Therefore, it's important to keep an eye on your tires throughout the winter months.
Use a tire gauge to see if your tires meet the standards set for your vehicle. If you're not familiar with the proper level for your vehicle, check the inside edge of your driver's side door frame. There should be a sticker there that indicates several things, including suggested tire pressure.
If you do not have a tire gauge, you can usually find one at your local gas station, where you can also fill your tires with air. This is usually free or costs very little.
While checking the air pressure, it's also important to check how your tires are wearing. If they need replacing or rotating, do this before winter weather hits.
 A waxed surface repels snow, dirt and salt better than a non-waxed one. It will help your car look better and protect the paint.


Before you apply the wax, make sure to give the car a thorough wash. Don't forget to rinse the underside of the car to remove any sand or salt residue.
Try to wax the car before the first snowfall hits, or before the temperature drops below 55 °F (13 °C). This will protect the paint, while also making any snow or ice easier to brush off.
While you're at it, now is a good time to clean the inside of your car. Remove any clutter, vacuum the floor and seats and use an upholstery cleaner if necessary. You may also want to replace the carpeted floor mats with some water-resistant ones, to protect your floors from melted ice and snow., As mentioned above, having good visibility is very important, especially on the dark winter evening.


However, it's not only important that you can see, it's also imperative that you can be seen. This is why ensuring that your lights are in proper working order is essential.
Get somebody to help you do a visual check on all of the exterior lights on your car — including your headlights, taillights, backup lights and signal lights (including hazards and brake lights).
You should also be aware that the lights will be greater burden on your vehicle's electrical system in the winter, due to shorter and darker days. You'll need to take this into consideration when testing your battery.

