 This is an important step in making your body and mind better. It can also clear up your skin and give you more energy. Adding fruits and vegetables to your existing diet, swapping out regular pasta for whole grain options, and changing red or fatty meats for leaner options are great ways to eat healthier. You should limit the amount of salt you include in your diet. Look for low-sodium versions of the foods most likely to have high amounts of salt like sauces, dressings, and prepared soups.For example, if a recipe calls for a few vegetables, you can add a greater variety or increase the amount the recipe calls for.
If a recipe calls for spaghetti, try a whole wheat pasta instead. If a recipe calls for ground beef, use ground turkey or chicken instead.
Avoid processed foods as much as possible.;
, Take the time to work on getting more fit. The endorphins you get from working out can make you feel happier and more confident about your body. You don't need to be super skinny or have a particular body shape to be pretty. Being healthy by exercising can make you pretty no matter what your body looks like.


There are so many ways you can get fit. Many people go running every day. Some people do workout videos. Some people go to the gym. Others use fitness games, hand weights, run up and down the stairs, hike, or just dance around the house.You should really talk to your doctor before you start any kind of new and vigorous workout routine. Your doctor can best assess what your body can handle.
 Following a good skin care routine can also help you look prettier. At a minimum you should use a cleanser and moisturizer every day and a facial scrub a few times a week.Using a sheer moisturizer with SPF can give you a natural looking dewy glow.Use a loofah in the shower to get rid of dead skin and keep your skin looking bright and fresh., Eating a healthier diet can indirectly help the health of your nails, but there's also plenty you can do to benefit your nails directly. Having nice-looking nails can help make you look more attractive. Clean your nails every day with soap and water, and trim them every one to two weeks, depending on how long you like them to be. You should also shape your nails so that all look uniform and neat.If you notice that having longer nails leads to breakage and peeling in your nails, keep them a bit shorter. Having healthy nails is much more important than having long nails.
Try to save any crazy nail art for the weekend and keep your nails neat with only one color or a clear polish on them during the week.