 Birth records are not public records and if you want want to receive copies of those records you must be entitled to do so.This requirement will be easy to meet because you are always eligible to request a copy of your own records. However, in case you are looking to obtain birth records for someone else, these are the requirements. In order to be entitled to request and receive birth records, you must be a:


Person named on the records you are trying to access and be 18 or older;
Parent shown on the records you are trying to access; or
Legal guardian or legal representative of the child whose records you are trying to access.;
, If you are eligible to request a copy of your birth certificate, you will then need to consider the types of copies available. Both types of copies are legally valid and can be used for travel, getting a passport, proving citizenship, obtaining a driver's license, registering for school, or personal identification.The two types of birth certificates are:



First, a birth certificate with the child's name, date of birth, sex, place of birth, mother's maiden name, mother's place of birth, mother's age, father's name, father's place of birth, father's age, file date, date issued, and a state file number.This type of birth certificate currently costs $10 for the first copy and $2 for each additional copy that is ordered at the same time as the first copy.Second, a birth certificate with any information collected at the time of your birth.This birth certificate currently costs $15 for the first copy and $2 for each additional copy ordered at the same time as the first copy., In order to request a copy of your certified birth certificate, you will need to fill out an Application for Search of Birth Record Files.You will also need to submit a valid government issued photo identification.Valid forms of identification include:


A driver's license, a state issued photo ID, or a passport.If you do not have any of the above, or if your form of identification is more than 6 months expired, you will need two pieces of documentation with your name and one of them must also show our current address.The first piece of documentation can be a bill or other mail.The second piece of documentation must be one of the following: an insurance card, car registration, a credit card statement, a bank statement, a pay stub, a public assistance card, a voter registration's card, an active duty military ID, or an EBT Link Card., After you gather the required form, you will be required to fill it out completely.The form will ask for the following information:


Your name;
Place of birth;
Date of birth;
Sex;
Mother's and father's name;
The mailing address where you would like your records sent; and
Personal information from the person requesting the records., There are a number of ways you can request a copy of your birth certificate and you can choose whichever method best suits your needs. If you are going to request your birth certificate through the mail, fax, or in person then you should follow the directions in Part 2. If you are going to request your birth certificate online, follow the directions in Part 3.
 Depending on how you are requesting your birth certificate, you will need to send in or take your completed application materials (including a copy of your identification) to the required location. To send in proof of your identity, simply make a photocopy of your picture I.D. and send it in with your other materials.


If you are faxing in your materials, you will need to fax them to (217) 523-2648.You will also need your credit card information faxed in with your completed application.If you are sending your application through the mail, you will send it to the Illinois Department of Public Health, Division of Vital Records, 925 East Ridgely Avenue, Springfield, Illinois 62702-2737.You will also need to send in a check or money order made out to IDPH.If you are submitting your application in person, you will need to go to the Illinois Department of Public Health, Division of Vital Records, 925 East Ridgely Avenue, Springfield, Illinois 62702.The office is open Monday - Friday from 10 a.m. - 3 p.m..You will need to bring exact cash, personal check, money order, or credit card., There are certain fees associated with getting your birth certificate. Follow the guidelines below to understand how much your records are going to cost.


If you are requesting your birth certificate in person or through the mail, you will have to pay either $10 or $15 for the first copy, depending on the type of certificate you request, and you will have to pay $2 for each additional copy you order at the same time as your initial copy.If you are requesting your birth certificate through a fax, you will have to pay $15 for the first copy and $2 for each additional copy you order.You will also be required to pay a handling fee of $12.95., After you have requested a copy of your birth certificate and paid the required fees, you will receive your birth certificate at the address you provided in your application. Your request will usually be processed within 5-7 business days., When you request a copy of your birth certificate online, you will do so by accessing the VitalChek website.This website is the official online provider of birth certificates for the Illinois Department of Public Health. Once there, you will click on the link for ordering birth certificates, which you can find on the left hand side of the home screen. You will then click on the button that says "start your order" so you can begin the process.
 Once you start your order you will be prompted to answer a number of questions. Answer them honestly and entirely in order to complete your online order. The questions you will be asked, in order, include:


Whose birth certificate you are ordering;
Your current legal name;
Your state of birth;
Your city of birth;
Your date of birth;
Your reason for using the requested birth certificate; and
What type of birth certificate you would like to order., Once you complete the online instructions, the website will prompt you to pay the required fee in order to process your order and pay for the records. While the fees may vary, in general, it will cost you $15 for the first copy and $2 for each additional copy.You will also be required to pay a handling fee of $12.95., After you have requested a copy of your birth certificate and paid the required fees, you will receive your birth certificate at the address you provided in your application. Your request will usually be processed within 5-7 business days.