 Be sure to allow yourself plenty of time to get there, find parking, and check in.Print a map if the race is in a remote location where cellular or GPS service may be spotty or lacking.;
, Most race organizers will provide a map or description of the race site, including information about where you should check in. You may also be required to check in a certain amount of time before the race begins in order to participate, so you should know what time to arrive.
 You should find out what “wave” you are in, and what time that wave is projected to start. If the race is not run in waves, read any guidelines about start-line etiquette.
 However, if you are participating in a different race such as a triathlon, you might be expected to provide your own bike, swimwear, etc.


Consider creating a checklist that you can double- or triple-check before you walk out the door.Prepare your swimming equipment. Have a cap prepared (or be prepared to wear the provided, sometimes required, cap) Be sure your goggles fit well. You can put a little baby shampoo on the insides of the goggles to prevent fogging during the race.Check your bike.Make sure your bike is in good working condition: check the gears and the brakes in particular. You may also want to take CO2 cartridges,a pump, and a spare tube so that you can change a flat if necessary.

Put a fresh water bottle in your bike’s water bottle holder.Find out whether you can leave your bike (safely chained) at the race site the day before the race. Some bigger races allow for or encourage this. It has the added benefit of allowing you to see the race site in advance.
 Getting your clothes out the night before can ensure that you have one less thing to worry about it in the morning.It can also prevent situations like realizing you left your running shoes at the gym or you’re out of clean socks.


Check out the weather forecast and make adjustments accordingly. Make sure you don't overdress, as the temperature will feel about 10 degrees warmer while you are racing, and temperatures will rise as the day progresses.Don't plan to wear new clothes or shoes during the race.Consider hats or sunglasses for races that may be in full sunlight. You might also want to take or apply sunscreenahead of time.
 Ideally, you should walk the course ahead of time. If you are unable to walk the course, you should view a map of the course (which is likely available on the event website or your registration materials).

