 No matter how great your food and service is, you will likely find yourself receiving occasional complaints from your customers. Before dealing with them, try to get into the mindset where you approach each complaint as an opportunity to learn and improve your service. Being positive in your response from the start can make handling complaints a little easier. Think of it as a second chance to do it right.Often people don't complain about poor service or problems with the food, so it's a real opportunity for you to understand and address what could be an ongoing problem., When you receive a complaint the first thing to do is be sure you listen carefully to what your customer is saying and acknowledge her complaint. As the manager you should show you take her concerns seriously by personally speaking to the customer at her table.Take time to really understand what has gone wrong and thank the customer for bringing it to your attention.
If they hadn't spoken up you may not have learned of the problem so it would not have been addressed., Once you have fully understood the problem, act quickly to resolve it and give the customer exactly what she is asking for. If, for example, she wants her meat cooked in a different way, make sure you accommodate her. Or, offer her anything else on the menu if she would prefer something else entirely.


After dealing with the complaint, try to get her back on side by offering something extra, such as a free dessert or drink. Or even a discount on her next visit.
Even if you think her complaint was not totally legitimate you should go out of your way to ensure she leaves with a good impression., As well as complaints in person in the restaurant you may find that people leave reviews of your restaurant online. These can have a significant impact on your business so it's important that you give these complaints your full attention. Check the main sites where your restaurant is listed twice a day and respond to complaint swiftly and professionally.


You may delegate a staff member to keep an eye on these and inform you of any negative reviews.
There are apps available that will alert you when someone posts a review of your restaurant on a listings and review website.