 Never use standard hair dye when dealing with your eyelashes. Instead, look for a dye specifically formulated for use with lashes and brows.


Standard hair dyes use chemicals that are dangerous to apply near your eyes, so you should never use one on your eyelashes.
You'll have a few different colors to choose from. Black and brown are the most common, but there are also color-tinted options, like deep blue. Most of these color tints are not very noticeable, however, so they generally won't make your eyelashes look too unnatural.;
, Usually, however, it is as simple as adding combining the color and the activator.


Most kits come with a tube of dye, a bottle of activating solution, a mascara style wand, a stirring wand, and a mixing tray.
Squeeze 2 inches (5 cm) or so of color onto your mixing tray and add a few drops of activator. Stir the mixture until it thickens.
Adding too much activator can make the dye too runny. Thin, watery dye will not stay on the applicator wand well.
 Apply a small amount of prepared dye to the skin behind your ear or inside the elbow. Let the dye remain on your skin for 30 minutes before washing it off, then wait another 8 to 24 hours before proceeding further.


You need to monitor that spot you applied the dye to. If it begins to itch, burn, or become inflamed, you are likely having an allergic reaction to the dye. If you do have an allergic reaction, you should not use the dye on your eyelashes. As long as no allergic reaction develops, though, it the dye should be relatively safe for you.
 Use a cotton ball or pad to apply petroleum jelly around your eyes. Get the barrier underneath your eyes, applying it as far down as your lashes extend when you blink. Also apply it to the outer corners of your eyes, the upper lash lines, and the lids.


The dye is not supposed to stain your skin, but the barrier of petroleum jelly will make it much easier to wipe stray dye away afterward and further protect you from unsightly stains.
 Dip the side of the applicator wand into the prepared dye, turning the wand several times so that all sides pick up the dye.


The applicator wand is essentially the same sort of wand you use when applying mascara. If you already know how to apply mascara, you can use that knowledge here. You need to load the wand and apply the dye in the same way you would load and apply mascara.
 Use your loaded applicator wand to get a little of the dye on the upper and lower lashes of both eyes. Go back through and touch up your work after applying this base coat.


Look in a mirror as you apply the dye.
Begin with the upper lashes. Brush the dye onto the top of your lashes and onto the undersides.
Squint your eyes and gently blend the dye into your lower lashes, getting both the tops and undersides.
Get as close to the roots of your eyelashes as possible.
Take your time and keep your hands steady. The dye will sting if it gets into your eyes and may cause some irritation. If you do get dye in your eyes, wash it out immediately before doing anything else.
 Use a clean cotton ball or pad to blend away spots and smudges of dye that got onto your eyelids or cheeks.


Work carefully to avoid smearing the dye on your lashes.
 Wait 15 to 20 minutes to let the dye set. After you're certain that it has set, wash the wet dye off with warm water and cotton pads.


Dip the cotton into your warm water, close your eyes, and wipe your lash lines. Rinse the pad and repeat three or four times.
If your eyes still sting upon opening them, shut them tight again and rinse a few more times.
Use a clean, dry cotton pad or cotton ball to dry the area and touch up any remaining splotches.
 These dyes typically last for 30 to 45 days. If you like the results, you'll need to repeat the process after a month or two to keep the look going.

