 Plenty of high quality kisses will turn wet and sloppy at some point. They shouldn’t ever start that way. Allow you and your partner to enjoy the rising swell of arousal by kissing softly and slowly at first.Following an initial few exploratory kisses, withdraw and work the eye contact. You’ll likely both lean in for more without thinking at all.
It’s better to keep each other wanting more than over-imposing yourself early in a potential kiss-a-thon. There’s no rush.
Try starting a kiss somewhere other than your lover’s lips. The neck, the eyes, the ears; each of these are intimate parts of the body that will excitedly receive a well-timed kiss.
 You and your kissing counterpart have to work together if you want to knock each other’s socks off. Think of kissing like dancing – with all sorts of styles and ways to move. What matters most is staying in tune with one another.If you’re already overthinking everything right out of the gate, focus on the way their lips feel against yours, and your thoughts will likely return to the kiss.
Heat things up. One option is to gently bite. Pull softly on their lower lip. Not everyone will enjoy this, but most will, and will likely follow in whatever direction your teeth are pulling them.
Introduce the tongue. Slowly and methodically drag the tip of your tongue along the edges of your partner’s lips.
Use the texture and pressure of your tongue to introduce the notion that there is plenty more to look forward to in the coming moments.Use your tongue according to your partner’s response. If your tongues have taken control and have already started to wrestle in one another’s mouths, you likely don’t have cause to hesitate. That said, don’t forget that kissing is a full-body endeavor.
 Let your appendages wander. The best way to begin to explore the creative potential of a kiss if to literally feel the energy your partner’s body is emanating. Begin to roam (with either hand or mouth) from the base of their neck down their spine.Don’t allow yourself to overthink what you’re doing with your hands. Don’t allow them to rest anywhere for too long.
Never touch anyone anywhere they have not consented to being touched. The first few times you kiss someone, you need to explore one another’s boundaries carefully by making a point of respecting limits to the sorts of touching you’re each comfortable including in a kiss.
Some classic extracurricular hand placements include the back of the head, the deep lower back, and along or just below your partner’s jaw.
 Don’t risk boring each other by repeating the same motion or action over and over. Maintaining variety in the way you’re touching and kissing will keep the session interesting.Alternate between long, slow kisses and popcorn-kettle kisses that jump around from place to unpredictable place.
Don’t forget to break away from time to time to allow one another to breathe deeply and exchange make contact with your eyes. This also allows you to communicate some form of telepathic creative inspiration that will be evident when the kissing resumes.
Reinitiate kissing your partner by targeting a new part of their body.
As you learn where your lover enjoys being kissed, returned to those areas and enjoy the reaction your lips elicit.
 Of all the places a kiss may lead, extreme intimacy is an especially popular destination. Don’t allow your acts of intimacy to become routine. Use your lips to maintain surprise, compassion, and variability when having sex.Sexual relationships are remarkably varied. As long as you and your partner openly communicate, sex can be healthy in all sorts of way. That said, fulfillment is often derived in part via a romantic connection – which can be conveyed immediately by a tender kiss.
During and after moments of full-body contact, don’t allow your excitement to prevent your enjoyment of wrapping one another in a fury of arms, hips, legs, and shoulders. Kiss all of one another with your lips; kiss them with every other part of your body as well.

