


Call around and ask companies for price quotes. You can also ask for professional references. Any company that has been in business long and has a reputable history should be able to provide you with a list of satisfied commercial clients.;
,


When inquiring with pest control companies, ask to see their license details. They should be able to show you a current license number or certificate. You can check with the licensing body named on their license or certificate to ensure that it is legitimate. Ask if they have any technicians that hold only training licenses and make sure that it is the company's policy that these technicians be supervised by fully licensed technicians. Be wary of companies that do not display or offer this information; they may not be licensed or their license may have expired.



Many pest controllers are required to be accredited in installation and system monitoring as well as holding a general license. In addition, some technicians may have first aid training and child safety certificates.



Find out how long the company has been in business. Also, check how long each technician has been licensed and working in pest control, and find out what experience they have specifically regarding commercial pest control.



Each company can differ in their method for exterminating pests. Ask if they treat more than 1 entry point and what kind of bait and poison they use. Find out if their chemicals are toxic and if it is safe for you and your clients after the treatment.



You may get quotes from different companies, but you should also compare what that price includes. They will get rid of the pests, but some companies will include extras such as regular monitoring.



At minimum, a pest control company should have general liability. This is to protect their customers in case something should go wrong. They should be able to present you a copy of their insurance certificate upon request.



Most commercial pest control companies will offer some sort of guarantee in their services. This conveys confidence that they can do the job correctly and thoroughly. They should also offer a warranty on their services and a money back guarantee in the event that their work fails.

