 On par with the visual positivity of a smile, laughing is an auditory message that you’re happy. Further, it conveys that you’re on the same page with someone, that will make you both more comfortable in one another’s presence. And of course, laughing actually causes a release of endorphins that contribute to happiness and relaxation.Never stifle a laugh! Laughter is simply contagious: once someone begins, others are likely to follow, and all will benefit from its positive effects.
Make eye contact with someone immediately after sharing a laugh with them. There is perhaps no better way for people to maintain positive sentiments than by keeping one another laughing.
 Acknowledging that you noticed something about someone that you admired or were otherwise impressed by is another surefire way to create a pleasant rapport between you. Sincerity is key, of course, so don’t go around complimenting people without any actual inspiration to do so. Instead, simply verbalize the complimentary thoughts that naturally come to your mind.For instance, when you find yourself impressed by someone’s behavior or performance, let them know.
Be specific, as this will make the compliment sound sincere. Say something like, “I really admired how you handled yourself in there today. I thought your response to _____ was insightful and productive.”
Make a compliment personal too, by adding something along the lines of, “I’m glad we’ll be working together on this.”

, If you frequently run into someone, or have met a friend of a friend before but don’t really know them yet, don’t hesitate to say hello. Know that you can keep it brief if it feels awkward or if you tend to be shy.Even simply saying hello will increase the likelihood that others will feel positively towards you. Introduce yourself, ask the person’s name, and say something like “Well, great to see you! Hopefully we’ll run into each other again soon.”

, It might be insufferable in moments of particularly uninteresting conversation, but small talk indicates something incredibly important; that you feel the person with whom your speaking is worth your time and attention. Particularly when someone tries to chat with you, at least engage them for a polite exchange about the weather, the sports teams currently in the news, or the latest politician’s gaff.Whenever you encounter someone you know, say hello! Whether friends, or co-workers, indicate that you value the people around you by making a point of engaging with them, even if only for moment.
Don’t allow concerns about a potentially uninteresting conversation to dissuade you from a positive encounter. At worst, you can always politely excuse yourself after trading a few pleasantries.
 In simplest terms, invite others to join you, especially in social endeavors. For instance, whenever running into an old friend, be sure to include an invitation to the next open social gathering you’re looking forward to. Even if others are unable to attend a particular event, your invitation will come across as friendly and pleasant., Especially when someone has been brought into a new group but may not have developed individual relationships, make yourself available. If someone may need a bit of guidance getting used to a new environment, offer to walk them through an activity or scenario they may not have encountered before.Make a point of talking to the person at a social or work gathering you don’t know, and make sure they’re in the loop regarding any future activities that they might also be interested.
Even if only in parting, say something along the lines of, “Hey, two weeks from today is _____. Hope to see you there!”

, Technology has increasingly offered the ability to entertain, and even to sustain ourselves almost entirely independently. This does not mean that doing everything alone will make your happier. In fact, the more time you spend alone, the more important it is to go out too. One quick way to up your social interactions is making lunch plans. While your job will dictate the specifics, try to eat your meals, especially lunch and dinner, with others.


In general, indicate that you want to be involved by vocalizing your interest and joining in group activities whenever you’re able to do so.
Stay a while longer at social functions. Often, more personal interactions will occur when crowds have thinned, and the more you’re able to relate to someone, the more likely the two of you will enjoy a pleasant evening together.

