 Junk food is not only unhealthy, it costs more than it is really worth. It's fine to eat it on rare occasions but it has very little or no nutrients at all and it's pretty expensive in the long run.;
, Because chances are, you'll end up finding another store selling the same thing for a cheaper price.
 Consider looking on the internet for meals that can be made in large portions but could be made pretty cheaply. Granted, large meals costs slightly a bit more to make but it costs more to just make individual portions all the time because you have to keep using more energy, thus paying more money to cook them. Also if you make a large portion you could stretch them out by putting most of it in the fridge after you are done with it.
 Doing so will help making sure you're not using more than you really have to.
 Whenever you buy bulk items you are usually buying a large amounts of something and can be used in many ways and a lot of the times when you buy in bulk it is usually a bit more cheaper then buying them individually.
 This is common sense. If you knew you are not gonna eat something, then try not to buy it in the first place as it will be a waste of money.
 One of the main reason why we spend so much is because we always never use whatever we already have, letting it rot and go to waste. So use whatever you have in your disposal. You have no idea just how much money you could save just by being creative with your meals and make a meal out of just a bunch of random ingredients in your home.
 Doing so will help make sure that you are not hungry and it will usually speed up your metabolism. If you do this instead with combining exercise, you'll lose weight while never really hungry at all.
 If you happen to have any raw meat of any sort, put them inside the fridge or consider freezing them to make sure they don't go bad.
 Sometimes your store will have specials or have coupons. Take advantage of them as they will save you those small amounts of money that adds up.
 Sometimes generic items are not as bad as people claim. Despite how generic items are not usually as popular but their quality isn't as bad and can be a bit more cheaper than name brand items.
 Potlucks is a great idea to socialize with your friends and family and gives you a chance to have a night without spending or using much of your food and still ending the night while having a full stomach.
 Meat is expensive. So consider only buying a portion of meat every once a week and try to make it last. There's also many cheap dishes that can usually be made and have much leftovers that even meat eaters might enjoy. Such as:


Tomato soup with basil or other other condiments and with Garlic bread
Vegetarian Lasagna
Veggie chili
Sandwiches and juice

