 If your duvet has a cover, remove it and wash it separately. Usually the cover can be washed and dried in a regular capacity washer and dryer. Be sure to check the instructions on your duvet cover's tag. Do not wash your duvet with the cover still on it.;
, Before you decide to wash your duvet, be sure that it doesn’t require dry cleaning. Generally, if your duvet is made of cotton or a cotton blend, it can be machine washed. However, to ensure you don’t accidentally ruin it, read the instructions on your duvet’s label., Before washing your duvet, you will want to Sew Up Holes and tears in it. Mending these holes will prevent the stuffing from your duvet from falling out during the washing and drying cycles.
 Your duvet might not have a tag on it that contains washing instructions, but if it does, you will want to follow the manufacturer’s directions for washing and drying your duvet.The picture of a tub or bucket tells you whether or not the article can be washed. The number in the tub is the maximum water temperature. A hand in the tub means the item must be hand-washed only.A square with a circle inside it represents the dryer. Dots inside this symbol corresponds to the temperature of the dryer. Fewer dots means lower temperatures, and more dots or bigger dots mean higher heat may be used. An “X” through the square means you must line dry the item., If your duvet is especially dirty, you might want to consider pre-soaking it before you begin washing it. Pre-soak your duvet in a large sink, bin, or other large container that is large enough to hold your duvet. Pre-soaking treatments such as borax also help boost the cleaning power of your detergent.Your bathtub is a great option for pre-soaking your duvet. Ensure that your tub is clean and fill it with water and a small amount of borax or other pre-soaking treatment. Let the duvet soak for an hour.
 Odds are that your personal washing machine will not have sufficient space to adequately wash your duvet. You will want to wash it in the largest possible washing machine, so you’ll need to make a trip to your local laundromat.Center agitators can pull threads on your duvet or even tear it, so be sure you choose a large front loading washer for your duvet., Harsh detergents can strip the down filling of its natural oils and fibers. Use a natural detergent or a gentle commercial detergent specifically designed for delicate fabrics.


For a natural option, add a half cup of baking soda along with your detergent of choice at the beginning of the wash cycle and a half cup of white vinegar at the beginning of the first rinse cycle. This combination will freshen and soften your duvet., Regardless of which kind of detergent you choose, be sure that you don't use too much. Excess detergent can be as damaging as using a harsh detergent. Aim for one-quarter cup of commercial detergent or slightly more for home made or natural ingredient detergents., For white duvets, you will want to use a laundry booster like borax or baking soda to ensure that your duvet stays a beautiful bright white color. Avoid harsh soaps or bleach, unless there is a stain that will not come out without bleach.


If you have a stain such as blood or ink that requires bleach, be sure to check your duvet's label to ensure that bleach is appropriate prior to using it on your duvet. Otherwise, your duvet could end up with patchy discoloration.
 Because of the delicate threading on your duvet, it’s important to wash it on a gentle cycle. Washing your duvet on a high agitation setting meant for heavier, more durable fabrics can cause your duvet to come unstitched or even tear.
 Because of the thick matting inside your duvet, the detergent can get trapped in there more easily than thinner sheets and blankets. To avoid leaving laundry soap inside your duvet’s filling, run the rinse cycle twice., Once your duvet is thoroughly cleaned and rinsed, you need to start the drying process. Drying a duvet is a more involved process than drying a quilt or regular blanket. Because the stuffing in duvets is so thick, it can be harder to get all the moisture out. To protect your duvet, dry it on low heat and on the gentle cycle for a longer time rather than on high heat for a shorter time.Periodically throughout the drying process, remove your duvet and hand-fluff it. This prevents the filling from matting and will also tell you how dry the duvet is.
 Despite using large capacity machines and trying to hand-fluff your duvet, sometimes the filling falls to one side or sticks together. Putting two or three clean tennis balls in the dryer will help evenly fluff the filling of your duvet., Once you have gotten your duvet dry in the dryer, hang it outside to finish drying. Even if it feels dry to the touch, odds are that there is still moisture in the interior filling. Hanging your duvet outside allows this final bit of moisture to evaporate and helps prevent a musty smell and mildew from setting into your duvet.If you cannot hang your duvet outdoors to dry, try hanging it indoors across the backs of kitchen chairs so it can air out. An oscillating indoor fan pointed toward the duvet will be helpful, too, along with rotating it every few hours., Once your duvet is completely washed and dried, consider investing in a duvet cover. Duvet covers are far easier to maintain than the actual duvet itself, and these covers minimize the number of times you have to wash your duvet., A few times per year, hang your duvet outside to air out, if possible. Choose a sunny, dry day, and hang your duvet on a clothesline. This helps keep your duvet from developing a musty smell.If you don’t have an outdoor space to freshen your duvet, consider putting it in an XL capacity dryer for 10 minutes along with a freshly scented dryer sheet. Doing this a few times per year will also help ward off musty smells and help keep your duvet smelling fresh.

