 Condoms can be obtained for free at health clinics, in university dorms, and various kinds of health centers.Best of all, you do not need a prescription from a doctor.


Condoms prevent pregnancy 98% of the time (when used correctly). Condoms are also effective at preventing transmission of HIV and many other sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Websites like http://www.condomfinder.org/find.php can help you find locations near you, that distribute free condoms (in the US only).;
, Depending on where you live, your local health department may have a clinic that offers free or sliding scale services. Some clinics are able to offer birth control at a reduced price, while other clinics can help you apply for programs that provide free health care (including birth control).Some states also offer free forms of permanent sterilization (vasectomy or tubal ligation) for low-income citizens. Keep in mind that these are permanent and non-reversible, so this should only be considered if your family is complete and you are certain you don't want more children.
 Health centers on college campuses often offer free condoms for students. They may even offer free birth control pills (or other forms of contraception) for students. If you are a college student, speak to a doctor or nurse at your student health clinic to discuss which forms of birth control are available through student health insurance, or for free from the health center., Thanks to the Affordable Care Act (ACA), many states are able to provide free birth control to qualifying women and men. If you are uninsured, have a limited income, or qualify for Medicaid, this is a great option for you. Each state is different in terms of what services the plan offers.
In many states, this option provides access to a variety of birth control methods, such as an intrauterine device (IUD), a diaphragm, or permanent options like a tubal or vasectomy.
Over-the-counter methods like spermicides and the sponge are covered less often.Speak to someone at your local health department, or visit the ACA website to apply: https://www.healthcare.gov/


, Pharmaceutical companies sometimes provide doctors and healthcare providers with free samples. If you explain your financial issues to your doctor, they may be able to offer you some free samples to try.


You can talk to your doctor in the office or at the clinic.
If you have a health center at your school, university, or college, talk to someone there. You will only be able to get a limited amount of free samples. Use this method in the short term while you pursue other ways to get birth control.

