 Open a browser, type “www.badoo.com” into the search bar, and once the Badoo home page is up, hit “Join Badoo” on the top right corner of the page. You will be redirected to Badoo’s sign-up page.


Once on the sign-up page, enter your name, birthday, city, gender, and email address into the corresponding text fields. You will also be asked to state your reason for being on Badoo. Just click on the tab right next to “I’m here to,” and choose an answer from the drop-down menu. Once done, hit “Sign up” at the bottom of the page.;
, Once you’re in, add or edit the required information step-by-step to set up your profile.
 People want to put a face to the person they’re talking to, so add a profile image on the “Add photos of you” screen. You can either upload an existing photo from your computer or take a brand-new webcam picture of you.


Another option is to import an existing photo from your other social media accounts such as Facebook, Instagram or Photobucket.
 Moreover, you can add a description to your uploaded photo so people can get a sense early on of what kind of person you are (serious, funny, casual, intellectual, and so on).


Hit the “Finish” button at the bottom of the screen to continue with the process.
 You will see a message from Badoo prompting you to check your email to complete your registration. Log into your email account, open the email message from Badoo, and click on the “Complete my registration” confirmation link.


You will be redirected back to your Badoo account home page.
 Once you’ve been redirected, you should check one of the gender option boxes: “Male,” “Female,” or “Both.” Then, select the age range of the people you would like to meet (between 18 and 80), and hit the “Save” button right below.
 Move your cursor towards the avatar icon located on the right side of the menu bar at the top of the screen. Hit on the tab labelled “Your profile name,” and once your profile page is displayed, edit or add information to all the sections shown in red.


To do so, just mouse over to the right side of each tab, and click on the “Edit” button to make changes.
 Just click on the “Edit” button next to your profile name to edit your name or nickname and you birthday date.


Remember, you can change “Gender” only once.
You can also change your existing location or choice of interests by clicking on the “Edit” button.
Click on the “Save” button to save all your changes.
 You must upload at least three images to complete your profile. Only upload photos of you, meaning no group photos, cartoons, or scenery are allowed in the “Photos of you” section.


Your images will get a rating from other users, so upload your favorites!

, Under the tab “Interests,” you can add up to ten which you can choose from several suggested categories such as Music, Movies & TV Shows, Fashion & Beauty, Sports, Travel, Profession, Games, Hobbies, Books & Culture, Food & Drink, and Other. Hit “Done” when you’re finished.


It’s recommended that you also write a few snappy sentences in the “About me” section. You must write at least 140 characters to complete your profile.
Also, include a few tidbits about what you like and dislike in the “Interested in” portion.
Hit the Save button to add or update the information.
 Add or edit the information about the different aspects of your life, namely your relationship status, sexuality, appearance, children (if you have any or none), and whether you smoke or drink.


You can also update the information about your education, languages you speak, your work and the company you work for.
Some portions require you to type in your answers, while in others just need you to select an answer from the drop-down menus.

