 Having a driver makes things a lot easier and gives teens that little taste of being adult they crave, before they go home and the bubble is burst by parents, chores and homework. The driver could be a friend who just got their license, using mom or dad's car, a friend who has their own car, or if you're rich, get a limousine or town car. The driver is extremely important, and should be respected and treated as a crucial invitee. Why get one? Freedom! Being able to drive around town at will is far superior to any other option.;
, Plan to go to a movie or amusement park, mall, water park, anywhere you can be loud obnoxious teenagers. Loud and obnoxious behavior is an inevitable by-product of fun as a teenager even if it's good, clean fun. Also, the planned event is important because it allows for an answer to parents when they grill you on where you're going, if they do that sort of thing. Chances are, you or at least one of your friends will have parents who do that sort of thing, so they'll be able to say,"Oh, we're going to see such and such movie." It'll make things a lot easier on that friend. Another benefit to having some things planned is the ability to scout out deals, discounts and coupons. Having extra money to spend is always good, especially since some unplanned events will almost definitely come up, so plan, and look for deals and discounts.
 As a teenager, it's more trouble than it's worth. It makes driving dangerous, leaves those who can't or won't drink or get high feeling left out, and can and does lead to addiction or overdose/alcohol poisoning. Also, as a teen, being drunk is illegal, so yeah, just don't do it.
 Make sure there's a good mix of boys and girls, couples and singles, the more singles the better, the more girls the better. Think about it. What do you call a group of all guys going out together? Nerds? Dorks? Uncool? Sausage party? Ok, now what do you call a group of all girls going out together? Loud, obnoxious, fun, cool. Also, include the driver and someone zany to push the outing in a fun direction. Most importantly, get open minded people with simple taste who find fun wherever they go. Stuck up people with high expectations or complex taste will never find fun until they're 21 and/or have a lot of money.
 No one will admit it, but when the group does something legally risky (trespassing, vandalism, drinking, etc.) anyone smart gets a little nervous and its that much less fun for them. Also, getting busted will inhibit future fun and get parents all uptight. They'll take your freedom.
 Make sure to stay at someone's house as much as possible, ideally when parents are out of the way, I.E., out for the evening or contained to a certain room. Games like pool/ping pong are always unexpected hits with a fun, open minded group. Sleepovers are awesome and reminiscing over one is a good friendship solidifying activity. Also, there are much fewer police/laws to break, in a house.
 SWIMMING IS ALWAYS A GOOD TIME. Seriously, just hanging out gets a lot more fun in a basin of water, it's magic.
 Teenagers love to eat. Even those who don't admit it will later be caught devouring the chips. Its just science, the growth of puberty/adolescence requires calories. Also, hungry people are cranky people. Even if you've just had dinner, make sure there are snacks wherever you go, especially at a house. Sometimes the whole evening can even be food centered.
 This is a sure good time killer. Even if you're just being responsible, be chill about it.
 This goes back to #4, but special emphasis is needed. Don't include people who normally drink or do drugs. They'll poison the mindset of your simple group with their glorified tales of chemical experimentation. You'll notice as you progress into/through college, these people will multiply exponentially as more and more people get turned and then turn others, like a zombie plague. Keep your fun simple for as long as you can, because inevitably you'll get to that point where you're an adult and every simple get together simply must involve cocktails or beer/wine at the very least. Having sober fun in your teenage years also helps you to develop valuable fun having skills for those times when you or someone you're with can't drink or get high. In the future, you'll be a valuable friend for the guy who just had a liver transplant.
 This will provide evidence of your legendary exploits, and can be a filler activity in itself. Also, looking at the pictures of past nights out can get the fun mindset going on, provide a good talking point, and be a good way to include new people, "Hey new guy! Check out this picture we all took in front of the big whatever at the mall."

