 Use this section to cool your food down to an edible temperature. Do not leave it sitting out for more than two hours. If you want to cool your food down for storing in the fridge or freezer, or if you think it will take longer than 2 hours for your food to cool, click here.;
, A small amount of food will cool faster than a large amount of food. If you are trying to cool off a solid, such as a piece of steak or a potato, try cutting it into smaller pieces. If you are trying to cool off a liquid, try pouring it into a larger, but shallower container—or into two, smaller containers.
 The moving air will help shift the heat away from your food. Be sure to stir the food often so that it cools evenly. If you don't have a fan, try fanning it with a stiff sheet of paper or folder instead. You can also blow on your food, in a pinch.
 The food closest to the surface will cool down the fastest. By stirring your food up, you will be bringing the hot food up to the surface so that it can cool down. The already-cool food will sink to the bottom and help cool the rest of your meal down.
 Stir the soup every so often to help distribute the coldness. The one downside to this is that the melting ice can dilute the flavor of the soup.


You can also use plastic, reusable ice cubes instead. They won't melt and release water into your soup.
 Press down on the bowl (or plate) so that it sits snugly on top of the pack. Stir the food every so often so that it cools evenly.
 Turn the container around, so the cold water hits it from all sides. Every so often, open the container and stir the food. This will distribute the cold and help it cool more evenly., Keep a lid over the food to keep moisture from building up in your fridge. Note that this should only be used for small, single-serving amounts of food. If you are trying to cool down an entire family meal, try one of the methods from this section instead. Avoid placing hot food into the freezer, however; this can cause the rest of the food in the freezer to thaw and spoil.