 People make skordalia from potatoes, bread, or nuts, with no version more authentic than another. People who prefer the potato version enjoy its smooth texture and fresher flavor.This recipe takes 25 to 35 minutes to make, significantly longer than other versions.
This version is gluten-free.;
, Scrub the potatoes under running water. Peel them and chop roughly into even pieces. Roughly 1–2 inch (2.5 to 5 cm) cubes are best for a quick cooking time.


The skin is easier to peel after boiling. Try this if you don't have a vegetable peeler.
 Place the potatoes in a pot of cold water. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce to medium. Continue cooking until a fork easily penetrates to the center of a potato piece, about 15 minutes for small cubes.


Starting the potato in cold water instead of hot cooks the potato more evenly, for a smoother texture., Drain the potatoes, but reserve ½ cup (120 mL) of the water for later.Mash the potatoes with a fork or potato ricer. Keep at it until the potatoes are as smooth as you can make it.


Never use a food processor or blender, which can make a gluey mess.If this happens, switch plans and cook potatoes au gratin instead., Puree garlic and half the olive oil in a blender, then stir it into the potatoes while they are still hot.If you don't have a blender, crush the garlic with a pestle, or mince it and scrape it repeatedly to form a paste.


A blender will create a silkier texture than a food processor., The skordalia base absorbs flavors quickly. It's best to mix these in a small portion at a time, tasting in between. The amounts in the recipe are suggested; go slowly so you can adjust to suit your preferences.Mix until well-combined, in this order:


Mix in more olive oil 15 mL (1 tbsp) at a time, until smooth. Mix in a pinch each of salt and pepper at the same time.
Mix in lemon juice 5 mL (1 tsp) at a time, tasting in between. Aim for a tart flavor without overpowering other flavors.
If the mixture is too thick, reheat the reserved potato water and stir it in a little at a time. Skordalia should be about the consistency of hummus.Mix in more salt and pepper if desired.
 Cover the skordalia and let it rest at room temperature for a couple minutes, then serve.Greek cooks often serve skordalia with fried fish or roasted beets.


For an attractive presentation, create a well in the skordalia using a spoon. Fill the well with olive oil and crushed garlic.
 These optional ingredients add pizazz to the skordalia. You can add them alone or in any combination:


Ground almonds or finely chopped walnuts add a rich flavor. Puree in olive oil before stirring into the mix. Save a little to sprinkle on top.
Vinegar can be added in place of the lemon juice, or in addition to it. Apple cider or red wine vinegar add the most flavor.
Top with chopped black olives, or fresh Italian parsley.

