 Keep the wedding party separate from the guests for 1 hour at the beginning of the reception. For a traditional Italian wedding, this is called cocktail hour and, as the name suggests, guests are served cocktails in preparation for the wedding party to arrive.
 After cocktail hour, the guests should gather in the reception area, clearing a path down the center for the bridal party. As the bride and groom enter the reception, they are announced as husband and wife.
 The band of choice should be able to play traditional Italian wedding songs.
 An abundance of flowers and ribbons is customary for Italian weddings.
 The first dance in a traditional Italian wedding belongs to the bride and groom, and is followed by formal dances involving different members of the bridal party. After the formal dances, the guests are invited to join in.
 Each member of the wedding party, and anyone else who volunteers, may choose to give a speech in honor of the newly married couple. Champagne, cocktails and sweet liquors are served to both the bridal party and the guests during this time, which may be a relatively lengthy part of the ceremony.
 Italian weddings place a great emphasis on the reception meal, which may be served in as many as 14 courses. Customary choices include:


Antipasto. This first-course dish traditionally includes Italian delicacies such as prosciutto, olives, stuffed mushrooms, pickled peppers, salami and calamari.
Italian wedding soup.
Pastas, breads, meats, fruits, salads and cheeses.
Symbolic wedding foods. Powdered sugar-coated dough twists, called Wanda, are served to bring good tidings to the bride and groom, and sugared almond Italian candy is served to symbolize the bitter and the sweet of a marriage.
Beverages. Wine and coffee are customary, in addition to more conventional mealtime beverages like water, milk, tea and juice.
Desserts. A variety of desserts are served, including pastries, cakes, candies, fruits and wedding cake.
 The words "evviva gli sposi," meaning "long live the newlyweds," is traditionally exclaimed throughout the reception as wine glasses are raised in celebration.

