 Sometimes this will be sufficient to remove the glue, especially if the offending glue has only stuck to one finger instead of sticking two fingers together. Go carefully though and if you feel any pain or see skin lifting off, stop immediately.


Wait until the glue dries into a thin solid before attempting to peel it off. Do not touch it while it is still sticky.
Using clean fingernails or tweezers, grasp the dried glue at the edge and slowly peel it away from the skin. Stop if the glue resists or causes pain.;
, Warm, soapy water may be enough to loosen the glue from your hand. Fill a bowl with warm water and add about 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of mild soap. Soak the glued area for 30 to 60 seconds, then attempt to peel the softened glue away.








If you cannot peel the glue away, try rolling another digit, spatula, or spoon handle over the area to help lift it up.
Note that you may need to make several attempts before having success.
You might also try using lemon juice instead of water, or a mixture made of one part lemon juice and one part water. The acid in the juice can help eat away at the glue., If you have sensitive skin, soak the affected area in mineral spirits, then try loosening the glue from your skin. Repeat if the glue doesn’t come off., This method is best for those with tougher skin types––those with sensitive skin might find this method irritating or drying. And never apply acetone to open wounds.








Soak the skin in warm soapy water as soon as possible. This will soften the glue. Adding a dash of cool vinegar may also help. Try loosening the glue from your skin. If this doesn't work, pat the skin dry and move on to the next step.
Use an acetone-based nail polish remover. It must contain acetone, because acetone softens cyanoacrylate. Rub it on the super glue. The dried glue should start peeling off. Do not use a cotton swab, as this can react very violently with cyanoacrylate (smoking or bursting into flames).Let the area dry, then use a nail emery board to remove the glue. Be careful not to remove your skin, too. If you have a lot on your hands you can scrub it on a pumice stone kept in warm water.
Let it peel off on its own. It will turn white, but it will not hurt you, and it'll eventually come off without your help.
 If you have sensitive skin, a little grease might work better. Rub a little margarine on the area repeatedly until the glue can be gently peeled away. 









If you don't have margarine, olive oil should work the same way. The grease reacts with the glue to loosen the bond., Mix liquid laundry detergent (any brand) with hot water. If you are removing the glue from a small area such as your fingers, a 1/4 cup of laundry detergent combined with the hot water in a coffee cup will be sufficient.









Rub and soak for approximately 20 minutes to loosen up the thick band of glue.
 A paste made of salt and water can be abrasive enough to scrape away the glue.Put two tablespoons (30 ml) of salt in your hands.









Put a little water in the salt to turn it into a paste.
Rub the paste in your hand for about 30 to 60 seconds.
Rinse a little off.
Keep rubbing without adding water.
Repeat until the salt has dissipated. Hopefully the glue has lifted off too.
 Wash your hands and the area which has glue on it in hot, soapy water.









Apply petroleum jelly generously on the affected area.
Rub the affected area with a nail file for about a minute. Or, rub until you notice the glue coming off.
Repeat. Then wash and dry your hands.

