 The BBB will handle your complaint about the business and may work with you and the business toward an ethical resolution.


The BBB will take any type of consumer complaint about a business, including complaints about false advertising or poor customer service. The BBB will not handle complaints regarding disputes at your place of work, discrimination, cases that are in litigation, or complaints about health care or legal services.
 You can find the BBB homepage at www.BBB.org.From the homepage, you will be prompted to enter a specific location. There are multiple offices within Nevada, so you would do best to enter your zip code, and then click on “Search.”


The Better Business Bureau divides Nevada into two sections -- the Better Business Bureau of Northern Nevada, and the Better Business Bureau of Southern Nevada.
 Follow the links to “File a Complaint.” You will be asked whether your complaint refers to a vehicle, cell phone or wireless carrier, other business product or service, advertising, privacy policy, or something else. Make your selection and then select “Next” at the bottom of the screen., You will next be directed to a search feature that will help you identify the business that you are reporting. Include as much of the name as you can. The more specific you are, the more likely your search will be accurate. If you know the business’s location, you can enter that as well.


Click on “Next” after you have entered the information., After you enter your information, the search engine will produce a list of businesses that meet your search criteria. For example, a search for a business in Reno whose name includes “ABC” in the title resulted in a list of 25 different businesses. Check the exact name, address and other information that is provided, and select the business that you are writing about.Click on “Select” next to the name of the business you wish to write about.
 The BBB will not accept anonymous complaints. Their function is to accept your complaint, refer it to the business, and try to help mediate a resolution. For this reason, you must provide information so that you can be contacted. Enter this information completely, and then select “Next” at the bottom of the screen.You will be redirected to a screen to enter your complaint.
 You will have a space to write in the nature of your complaint. You are allowed up to 2030 characters, which should be enough, if you are concise and direct.


Be aware that your complaint is posted publicly. Limit any private or embarrassing information.
In writing your complaint, focus on the facts of what happened. It is more helpful to include direct quotations of what someone said rather than making a conclusion like, “The clerk was rude to me.”

, After you write your description of your complaint, you are asked how you would like to resolve the problem. There is a drop down menu of sixteen different choices. Select the one that seems most applicable, but realize that you may not get exactly what you choose. The choices are:


billing adjustment
contact by the business
correction to your credit report
delivery
exchange
explanation of charges
finish the job
modification of advertised claims
no further contact by the business
no resolution requested - you are writing just for information
not applicable
other (requires further explanation)
refund
repair
replacement
store credit

, You are asked to provide optional information about your interaction with the business you are writing about. This includes such information as your order number, product information, price, and date of the interaction. You may even upload a copy of a receipt, order form, or any other document that may help to understand your complaint.
 Before your complaint is submitted to the BBB, you have an opportunity to review it. All the information that you have entered up to this point is shown on the next screen. Review it carefully and make sure you have included everything.


Check that you have provided factual, rather than emotional, information.
You may print a copy of the screen before submitting your complaint. This would be good to keep for your records.
When you are satisfied, click on “Submit” at the bottom of the screen.
 If you prefer to visit a BBB office in person to submit a complaint, click on the link for "Find a BBB" from the BBB.org homepage and enter your search criteria to find the nearest office location.The BBB of Southern Nevada has its office at 6040 South Jones Blvd., Las Vegas, NV 89118. The telephone number is (702) 320-4500.
The BBB of Northern Nevada has its office at 4834 Sparks Blvd., Suite 102, Sparks, NV 89436-8157. The telephone number is (775) 322-0657.

