 Sometimes when investors say that they want to calculate the "dividend" on their stocks, what they're actually referring to is the "dividend yield." The dividend yield is the percentage of your investment that a stock will pay you back in the form of dividends. Dividend yield can be thought of as an "interest rate" on a stock. To get started, you'll need to find the current price per share of the stock you're analyzing.


For publicly-traded companies (Apple, for instance), you can find the latest stock price by checking the website of any major stock index (e.g., NASDAQ or S&P 500)Keep in mind that the share price of a company's stock can fluctuate based on the company's performance. Thus, estimations for the dividend yield of a company's stock can be inaccurate if the stock's price suddenly moves significantly.
 Find the most recent DPS value of the stock you own. Again, the formula is DPS = (D - SD)/S where D = the amount of money paid in regular dividends, SD = the amount paid in special, one-time dividends, and S = the total number of shares of company stock owned by all investors.


As noted above, you can typically find D and SD on a company's cash flow statement and S on its balance sheet. As an additional reminder, a company's DPS can fluctuate with time, so you'll want to use a recent time period for the most accurate results.
 Finally, divide your DPS value by the price per share for the stock you own to find your dividend yield (or, in other words, use the formula DY = DPS/SP). This simple ratio compares the amount of money you are paid in dividends to the amount of money you had to pay for the stock to begin with. The greater the dividend yield, the more money you'll earn on your initial investment.


For example, let's say that you own 50 shares of company stock and that you bought these shares at a price of $20 per share. If the company's DPS in recent time periods has been roughly $1, you can find the dividend yield by plugging your values into the formula DY = DPS/SP; thus, DY = 1/20 = 0.05 or 5%. In other words, you'll make 5% of your investment back in each round of dividends, no matter how much or how little you invest.
 Investors often use dividend yields to determine whether to make certain investments or not. Different yields appeal to different investors. For instance, an investor who's looking for a steady, regular source of income might invest in a company with a high dividend yield. These are typically successful, established companies. On the other hand, an investor who's willing to take a risk for the chance of a major payout might invest in a young company with lots of growth potential. Such companies often keep most of their profits as retained earnings and won't pay out much in the form of dividends until they are more established. Thus, knowing the dividend yields of the companies you're thinking of investing in can help you make smart, informed investment decisions.


For instance, let’s say that two competing companies both offer dividend payments of $2 per share. While they may at first seem to be equally good investment opportunities, if one company’s stock is trading at $20 per share and the other’s is trading at $100 per share, the company with the $20 share price is the better deal (all other factors being equal). Every share of the $20 company will earn you 2/20 or 10% of your initial investment per year, while every share of the $100 company will earn you just 2/100 or 2% of your initial investment.

