 If they're in the bathroom and the door is open, or they're at their desk quietly doing homework, sneak up on them and yell "Boo!" really loud or make an alarm go off really loudly.
 Then crumple some of it up and say "I'm crumpling up your homework" and go on an rip it up. Throw the pieces at them, then keep doing this every hour., Let's say your sibling likes to play computer or video games, for example. If you mess with their progress so they have to do the same level over again, they'll get really annoyed.


If your sibling is playing a video game, wait until they leave the room. Once they've left the room, restart the level or the whole game and quickly hide. Make sure you have more than one sibling, so there are more suspects. Deny everything your sibling accuses you of, saying that he/she may have restarted himself/herself because he/she wanted to relive the thrill of the game.






Bonus points if they're playing a game like Call of Duty or Halo with long campaign levels, and you reset the level when they haven't saved for several missions/levels/etc.
Ask your sibling if he/she needs help on a level and then purposely die or harm the character's progress. Say "whoopsie!" Put down the controller and walk away.






If they are on the computer all day long, unplug the modem and plug it back in, or find another way to get the internet down (like making a call if you still have dial-up).






When your little sibling has just sat down to play his/her new favorite video game, get a long, wide towel and rush over to the room s/he's in with the towel wrapped around you. Sit in a chair behind them. They'll look at you and ask what you're doing, but don't say anything. When his/her attention is fully back on the game, slowly make your way over to the TV screen. Then, quickly cover the screen and hold it there so she/he can't see her/his game. He/she will start to get angry and when she/he looks like she/he is about to explode with anger, take down the towel and run away.
 If your sibling is in the bathtub with the curtain closed and has left the door open, go inside, turn off the light and shut the door. They'll have to get out of the warm bath in order to see.


If your sibling is quietly doing homework at night with the light on, keep slowly and quietly coming into the room and turn off the lights. Each time, they'll have to get up out of their seat and turn on the lights before they can see the homework.
 It is even better is to hide it in another sibling's closet, so the blame goes on them and not you. You've just killed two birds with one stone!

, If they are eating their breakfast/lunch/dinner, ask them if they would like some milk. Go to the fridge and fill the glass up with water, then pour a tiny bit of milk to make it look white. Serve it to them and say "This is the last bit of milk. You're welcome! And then run away.


Put salt in their soft drink. Ask them if they want a soda. Open the soda, dump a bunch of salt in the soda, and wait until they drink it. When they complain, just say "Soda isn't healthy for you anyway! I'm looking out for you bro/sis!"






If you don't want to put salt in their cola, just shake the cola up really hard right before you bring it to them. When they open it up, it'll spray everywhere. Also you can put mints in their cola just before you give it to them so it will shoot everywhere.
 If you are watching TV or just lying on your bed and you hear your sibling coming close, act like you are sleeping. They will either leave or come near you. If they come near you, jump up and scream, scaring the daylights out of them. Bonus points if it's in their ear.
 If you want to get them really good, put Saran wrap or other plastic wrap on the toilet seat and tell them that the bathroom is open. When they have to go, they'll have to deal with the big mess. Boys can also pee on the seat, so  be careful about that.
 Then tickle their nose a little and run. Jump in your bed and pretend to be asleep, if they come in your room and try to do the same thing to you, put it in their face. Classic!

, Say they typed something like "My name is billy" You can change it to "My name is barley" or something like that. You can add, change, or delete their work.
 Move their desks, beds,and all their stuff. Do it while your parents are busy somewhere else in the house and while your sibling(s) are gone. Then it is possible that your parents did it (the more suspects the better).
 Put on a ghost movie or Toy Story before starting. They will think that their room is haunted or that their toys came to life.
 Make it for them but add some hard to notice tricks. Say they want milk to drink, add water. Maybe they want a sandwich, add a little extra ingredient. Make any changes small, and if they ask, make something up.

