 During the teen years, there is a lot going on in terms of hormonal changes and body development. Not only that but most teenagers are trying to learn how to be more like adults at the same time. With all of this going on, it isn’t unusual for teens to experience difficult emotions or even depression. Thus, it is important for you to consider whether your teen’s poor hygiene is a sign of something more serious.If a teen was bathing normally but has suddenly stopped, and if you have noticed other symptoms such as moodiness, changes in their school performance or social behavior, or if they have started using drugs or drinking alcohol, then it may be time to seek help from a doctor.
 There may be a logical reason behind why the teen isn’t showering, so you should spend some time reflecting on what those reasons might be instead of just assuming they are being lazy.


For example, there's a teen who has very long hair, maybe they aren’t showering because they don’t have time to do their hair afterward. In this case, you could purchase them a shower cap, or suggest that they take a bath on the days that they don’t want to wash their hair. Some people simply don’t need to wash their hair every day.
Maybe the young person is having a hard time finding the time to shower. Many teens have a lot on their plates with school, friends, extracurricular activities, and chores. It could be that they feel they can’t find the time. If this is the case, maybe you can help them figure out a way to manage their time better, or even cut out one of their chores so they have 15 extra minutes to shower.
 Many times, teens rebel over little things simply to feel like they have some control over their lives. If you haven’t already done so, consider asking the teen why they don’t want to shower. Asking will hopefully help you figure out why they don’t want to shower. Additionally, it will also show your teen that you acknowledge that they are growing up and have opinions and thoughts of their own.


Hopefully, the reason they don’t want to shower will be a fairly straightforward one. For example, if the teen doesn’t like the smell of the products, then you can easily let them pick ones they do want.On the other hand, if their reason for not showering is more philosophical (e.g. they don’t want to shower because they feel they should be natural, or something like that), then you’re going to have to do a bit more work. You’ll have to spend time educating them on the health implications of poor hygiene and hope that makes sense to them. If it comes to it, you may have to start revoking privileges.

