 Once they've downloaded into a dedicated folder, like "My Stop-motion Movie," sort them by date (if they are not already) by clicking "Arrange By: Day" in the upper right corner of the My Computer window. You want them organized so that, if you scrolled through them all, they would show you movie.


Almost all cameras will import the photos in order, but some will import them in reverse order -- with the most recent photos first. Check through the shots before continuing to make sure they are in chronological order.
Make sure that only the photos for your movie are in this folder.
 Open Windows Movie Maker (WMM) and set your screen so you can see you photo folder and WMM at the same time. Click in the photo window and press Ctrl + A to select all of the photos. Then click and drag them into WMM and let them import.


Depending on the size and number of the photos, importing may take some time. Don't be worried if the computer freezes up temporarily, as it just needs time to process.
 In the Movie Maker, use Ctrl+A again to select all of your photos. Now, any changes you make will affect every single photo at the same time, so you could make the movie black and white, sepia-toned, or play with the color settings if you desired.
 This means that each photo will only be on the screen for a tenth of a second, giving you 10 frames per second of footage. With that, your movie is complete., Hit the play button under the preview window to watch your movie in action. If the entire thing seems to slow, adjust your duration to play even faster, trying out .09 or .08 seconds. If it moves too quickly, make the duration a little long, like .11 or .12 seconds., If there is a part that moves quicker than the rest, or seems jump forward, add a frame or two to slow it down. To do so, simply click on a picture in the spot that seems too slow, and then right-click copy and paste (or Ctrl+C and then Ctrl+V). The identical photo will take up an extra .1 seconds, slowing down the action.

If a part is creeping along too slowly, delete an individual photo or two to speed it up. Make a note, however, of the file name in case you decide to add it back in later.
 Once you have the timing right, add in your audio effects, such as dialog or music, as well as any titles or credits that you want in the beginning and end. Your movie is finished.

You may still make some changes, adding or deleting frames, to sync up your footage to some music, but it is best to do this last, after you have a movie you enjoy on its own.