 Many band and tour managers were once musicians themselves. If they were not, then they attended concerts and other music industry events regularly.;
, Apply for an internship or entry-level job with a music label or in music public relations. Most people start as an intern and earn their way into an entry-level job in the company.


It is not absolutely necessary to work for a music company in order to work as a band tour manager, since you can be hired directly by bands. However, it will give you important industry knowledge that will help you work with third parties, such as venues, roadies, opening acts and more.
 A tour manager is essentially an event planner who is constantly juggling events in different towns.


Consider enrolling in an arts management or music management program. Many schools in the US and Canada offer these programs, but you may need to relocate in order to take advantage of a program that you like.
Consider enrolling in an events management associate's degree program. You will need to be able to do scheduling, budgeting, travel arrangements, money management, planning and public relations in small degrees every day. If you are not good with handling money, take business courses.
 Band tour managers must be extremely social and able to field phone calls throughout the day and night. They also must be assertive to be successful.


You will be required to enforce contracts and ask for money from venues and promoters. You will also need to act in a "parent" role with the band, so that you can earn their respect and be an authority figure. Some ambivalent, but social, parts of the job include breaking up fights and living within a very close environment, such as a bus, with the band.
 You are more likely to earn a gig as a tour manager if you are in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Austin, New York City or Nashville. This is only necessary when you are looking for jobs, since you will need to be on the road once you start managing tours.
 You are never too young to start making industry contacts, so introduce yourself as someone interesting in managing an upcoming tour.
 If you don't feel as though you can jump right into tour management, contact tour managers and volunteer to assist them for free. Volunteer 2 weeks to a couple of months of your time, and the extra expense may result in important contacts and valuable experience.
 Try to learn on a small, state-wide tour. Then, once you are familiar with the process, you can start moving into regional, country-wide or international tours.


Being a tour manager often includes making the travel arrangements. For this reason, it is a good idea to start where you know the best way to get a good deal and work your way into new areas. You may also need to learn about venues in promoters in different regions, which is where your music industry knowledge will come in handy.
 You will be asked to take on aspects of band management and publicity on some tours, while during others you will simply get the band from 1 place to another. Clarify what the band, the label and the manager want before you take the job, so that you have a better chance of succeeding.

