 You might need to trade the crib for a toddler bed when your child is as young as 12 months old. Generally, your child will be ready for a bed when they are 18 months old or older. You’ll know when your child is ready for a toddler bed when you hear or see them climbing out of their own crib.If your crib has the option of converting into a bed – for instance, by lowering one side of the crib rails – you won’t need to invest in a separate bed. Simply follow manufacturer instructions and remove the toddler rail.If you don’t have a convertible crib, you’ll need to invest in a toddler bed. Unlike cribs, toddler beds are small and low to the ground, allowing your child to get in and out of bed on their own.
Replacing the crib with an antique bed could give your toddler room a unique look.A toddler bed is acceptable until your child is about four or five years of age. If you have other, younger children, you can keep the toddler bed and pass it on to them when your toddler outgrows it.;
, Toddler beds, like normal beds, require sheets, pillows, and blankets. You can obtain these items online or in many home and bedroom stores. Take your child with you to the home good store and allow them to select a set of sheets they like.Your child might be interested in sheets that are blue, yellow, or multicolored. Sheets with popular animated characters might also be of interest to your child. Direct your child to various sheet and comforter sets to help them make a decision that will get them excited about their room and their bedtime.Add some small stuffed animals to your child’s bed.You could give your child a personalized pillow with their name on it.Ensure your toddler bedding is made of soft, nontoxic, non-flammable material. Check the bedding’s packaging to determine if it is or is not made of appropriate materials.
 Toddlers love soft surfaces on their skin. Lay a fluffy blanket, rug, or body pillow on the floor. Your toddler can use this space to play and put puzzles together.Some toddlers like rugs that are shaped like an animal – for instance, a zebra rug or a bear rug. But these rugs might scare some toddlers. Take your toddler to the store and ask them if they would like a particular rug before making your purchase.
 There are many ways to decorate your child’s toddler room. Obtain some whimsical and kid-friendly art to amuse and stimulate your child’s mind. For instance, your child might enjoy an image of a happy monkey or similar beast. Other toddler rooms have walls covered in brightly colored abstract art.You can also paint directly onto the walls. For instance, some people like to paint trees or birds onto their walls. Some toddler rooms feature more classically-inspired murals that excite the eye.
Try hanging some family photos on the wall of your toddler room.
Avoid alphabet charts and similar decorations that are geared towards babies.In the past, many people chose pink walls if their child was a girl and blue walls if their child was a boy. However, this is no longer preferred.
 Toddlers enjoy playing games and using their imaginations. They might like doing this inside designated retreat. For instance, some toddlers have a large dollhouse, mini castle, or teepee in their rooms. This provides your toddler with a place of their own., Empty floor space is crucial to allow your child a space to play and frolic. Your toddler will surely thank you. There are several ways to add dead space when converting a nursery into a toddler room.Remove rocking chairs or ottomans you may have used to rock your baby to sleep.
Relocate the diaper pail. Swap it with a storage basket for toys and games.
Remove chairs and swings that you used in the nursery, as well as toys or objects that your toddler is no longer interested in. Add a beanbag chair or a soft child’s chair to the toddler room.

