 From your device’s home screen, tap Google Play Store’s icon to launch it. Here you can download different kinds of apps for all sorts of Android makes and models.;
, Tap the magnifying glass icon on the upper right-hand corner of the app screen and type in “Ancestry.” Press the magnifying glass to start searching.
, Tap the three vertical dots to the side of the app’s name, and tap “Install”.
,, Tap the Ancestry app icon from the home screen to launch it. The app’s first screen will require you to create an account.
 Tap the “Sign up now” button you’ll see on the first screen to proceed to the sign-up form. Enter your full name, a valid email address, your chosen password for your account, and tap the “Sign Up” button to register and create an Ancestry account.
 If you want to use your Facebook account as your login credentials for Ancestry, then simply tap the “Sign Up using Facebook” button you’ll see on the upper portion of the sign-up form to instantly get your Ancestry account.
 AncestryDNA is Ancestry’s own DNA testing kit that helps you identify the origin of your bloodline or family tree more accurately. To get started, tap the button with a DNA icon found on the top center portion of the screen and tap the “Get AncestryDNA” button.


DNA testing is not cheap, so before you start, you should be aware that the testing kit costs about $100 to avail.
 On the next screen you’ll be required to enter some of your personal details:

, Type in your full name and complete address (including state and country) on the text fields provided. The DNA testing kit will be sent to the address that you put in here.
 Enter your credit card details on the text field provided.
 Click the check box to accept the terms and conditions

,


After a few days the DNA kit will be delivered to the address you provided. Put in a small amount of your saliva on the container provided. This will be the DNA sample that Ancestry will use to trace your Ancestors.
 Head to your local post office or courier service and have the DNA testing kit sent back to the return address indicated on the package.
 After several days, open your computer or Android device’s web browser and visit the Ancestry website at http://www.ancestry.com/.



You could also click the small Facebook icon right beside the login form if you opted to use your Facebook account as your login.
 Click the “DNA” tab on the upper portion of the web page to go the AncestryDNA section of the site. Here you should be able to find the results of the DNA test you ordered, including your genetic ethnicity summary and, if there are any matches on the records, the name of your ancestors or related ancestry.


Keep in mind that the result may take a few to several days before it appears on the DNA section.

