 The most important thing you can do is to stay calm. If you’re alone, this can be hard to do, but give yourself a moment to take a few deep breaths and relax.Try to avoid panicking when you realize you’re unable to move away from the frozen surface. If you pull too hard on your tongue, it will literally rip off the frozen surface and cause a lot of damage (and bleeding). Consider this a last resort option.
If you see someone in the general area, try to flag them down by waving your arms or yelling (as best you can). Having someone else to help you will ease your stress.;
, Since you’re alone, try this method first. The reason why your tongue is stuck is because the metal surface is frozen and is conducting the heat from your tongue. In order to get unstuck, you have to warm up the metal somehow.One way to warm up the metal surface is to use your own hot breath. Cup your hands around your mouth (but be careful not to touch your lips or hands to the metal surface, as they will collect moisture and also become stuck) and breathe hot air directly onto the area where your tongue is stuck.
You can also use a scarf or jacket to shield yourself from a cold wind and possibly help warm air from your breath.
Pull gently while doing this to see if you can loosen, or even remove, your tongue.
 If, by some chance, you have a warm cup of coffee, tea, hot chocolate, or other liquid with you, use it to warm up the metal’s surface. Pour the liquid onto the metal where your tongue is stuck and gently attempt to remove your tongue.Warm water is ideal for this situation, but any warm liquid will work if necessary.
And yes, that includes urine. Although not recommended, if you are alone somewhere and no help is possible, this could be your absolute last resort. Consider this only under absolute emergency situations.
 Calling 911 to get help is definitely an option you should consider. Of course, this would only work if you have a cell phone with you, and that cell phone is easily accessible to you.When, and if, you call 911 you may be unable to talk to the operator. Remain calm and slowly try to explain what has happened and where you are. If necessary, they can trace your call to find you.
 Consider this as an absolute last resort option if all other options have failed or aren’t possible, but it really should never come to this. This option will, without a doubt, cause some sort of injury and be extremely painful. Build up your courage and then just yank yourself away from the frozen surface.


Warming the surrounding metal area through breathing and shielding yourself from wind with a scarf or jacket is usually enough to gently remove the appendage, even in -40°F or more.
Once you’re unstuck, seek medical help as quickly as possible for your injured tongue.

