 Even if you have recent CPR training and are confident of your abilities, you still need to assess the person to see if she is responsive and move her onto her back if she is not and shows no sign of neck/head/spine injury.Try to call emergency services before starting chest compressions and look for someone to trade off with.

If performing CPR on a small child between the ages of one and eight years, only use one hand to perform chest compressions.
The rate of chest compressions is the same for both adults and children (roughly 100 per minute).
For children between the ages of one and eight years, you will need to depress the sternum (chest bone) 1/3 to 1/2 of the depth of the child's chest.
If you have recent CPR training, perform only 30 chest compressions before moving on to the breathing assistance phase of CPR.
 If you're trained in CPR, confident of your abilities (not rusty) and you've performed 30 chest compressions, then proceed to open the person's airway using the head-tilt, chin-lift technique,or the jaw-thrust if you suspect a neck/head/spine injury. Put your palm on his forehead and gently tilt (extend) his head back a little. Then with your other hand, gently lift the chin forward to open up his airway, making it easier to give him oxygen.


Take five to 10 seconds to check for normal breathing. Look for chest motion, listen for breathing, and see if you can feel the victim's breath on your cheek or ear.
Note that gasping is not considered to be normal breathing.
If he is already breathing, no breathing assistance is needed. However, If he still is not breathing, then proceed to the mouth-to-mouth breathing part of CPR.
To perform the jaw-thrust technique, sit above the person's head. Place one hand on each side of the person's jaw and lift the jaw so that it is jutting forward, as though the person has an underbite., Once the person's head is tilted and her chin lifted, make sure her mouth is free of any objects blocking their airway. Then, use one hand to pinch the victim's nostrils closed and cover her mouth completely with your own mouth.Form a seal with your mouth so that no air can escape while you attempt to give the victim a rescue breath.


You should be aware that mouth-to-mouth CPR can transfer infectious viral and bacterial diseases between the victim and the rescuer.
Before contacting her mouth with yours, wipe away any vomit, mucus or excess saliva that may be present.
Rescue breathing can also be mouth-to-nose breathing if the person's mouth is seriously injured or can't be opened.
 Once your mouth is over the other person's, forcefully breathe into his mouth for at least one full second and watch his chest to determine if it rises a little or not.If it does, give the second breath, if it doesn't then repeat the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver and try again. Don't be too timid or grossed out because a person's life is in your hands.


Although there's carbon dioxide in your breath when you exhale, there's still enough oxygen to benefit a victim during CPR. Again, the purpose isn't always to revive him or continue indefinitely, but to buy some time for him until paramedics arrive.
Approximately 30 chest compressions and two rescue breaths is considered to be one cycle of conventional CPR for both adults and children.
If performing CPR on a child between the ages of one and eight years, you can use gentler breaths to inflate their lungs.
 Follow the two rescue breaths with another round of 30 chest compressions and two more rescue breaths. Repeat as needed until the victim becomes responsive or until emergency medical personnel can take over. Remember that chest compressions attempt to restore some sort of circulation, while the rescue breathing provides some (but not much) oxygen to prevent tissues, particularly the brain, from dying.

