 Having expensive taste is necessary to look expensive. Keep yourself updated with the latest fashion trends by referring to fashion magazines and following red carpet trends in Hollywood and New York. Remember that your own personal preferences, though important, need to share the stage with high fashion.


Model your behavior after rich people.
Conform to societal standards of wealth and beauty.
Listen to the advice of fashion magazines, blogs, and stylists.;
, Half the fun of looking expensive is wearing clothes that no one else would ever touch. Because rich people can afford to buy a lot of clothing and accessories, they have no problems trying something out one night to see how it looks, no matter how silly it looks. Have confidence that what you're wearing is "the talk of the town" and it will be, for better or worse.


If something costs a lot of money, it will make you look expensive.
Confidence is key -- you shouldn't care about what other people think about your style, because you don't either. Think about money, not necessarily about looking good.
 You don't have to have $1,000 shirts if you have one nice accessory or pairs of shoes. Forgot about looking extravagant and instead impress people with one well thought out piece of jewelry or a nice skirt. As long as the rest of your outfit looks okay, most people will focus on the "show-piece."


Aim for quality of clothes over quantity.
Reserve this piece for special occasions for maximum effect.
Buy cheap versions of the small things and save your money for bigger, nice pieces that you can build an outfit around., Cheap clothing can turn into a knockout dress if you're willing to fork over the cash needed to make it fit. Most clothing from "middle-class," "bourgeois" or "poor" stores is made in sizes that fit the average person. But looking expensive is about going beyond average, so get your clothes custom fitted at a local tailor to make it less plebeian and more personal.


Remove ugly, pre-stitched buttons and replace them with equally ugly, but slightly more expensive, marbled or brass buttons., Knockoffs are imitations of famous or expensive things, and they call attention to you as being fake or cheap. Moreover, they frequently break much faster than the real thing and reveal themselves to be knockoffs quickly. Avoid buying imitation goods and just buy the real thing.

