 Begin by finding some scrap gypsum board that is the same thickness as the wall you are repairing. Use a drywall saw to cut a small rectangular section of this scrap drywall big enough the cover the hole in your wall. Place the scrap rectangle over the damaged wall to ensure that it is large enough.;
, Place the scrap rectangle of drywall against the damaged wall and outline it using a pencil. Then, you will need to clear away the existing drywall along the outline you drew to make room for the new piece.


Begin by using a drywall saw to cut 4 lines from the hole to each corner of the outlined rectangle you drew. Then, use a utility knife to score the drywall paper along the entire outline.
One at a time, snap each of the 4 pieces of damaged drywall along the scored line. Clear them away with your utility knife, using the knife to clean up the edges of the cut if necessary.
 To help secure the scrap drywall rectangle into the hole, you will affix a scrap piece of wood behind the wall. 1"x3" or 1"x4" (25x75 mm or 25x100 mm) lumber works well for this.


Begin by cutting the scrap of wood to a length about 6 inches (15 cm) longer than the height of the rectangular hole. Apply a continuous strip of general purpose glue along the face of the wood.
Insert the wood backing into the hole, and then orient it so that it spans the hole with about 3 inches of overlap on the top and bottom. Press the wood against the wall to seat the glue against the back of the drywall.
Using an electric drill, drive 2 drywall screws through the wall into the wood backing both above and below the hole. This will secure the wood to the wall and give the new drywall piece a firm backing for support.
 Fit the rectangular drywall patch snugly into the hole. Press it firmly against the wood backing to ensure contact with the glue, and drive 1 or 2 drywall screws through the patch and into the wood.
 From this point on, the project should be finished just as you would finish a joint between drywall panels in a new installation.


Apply strips of drywall tape along the edges of the new drywall patch. Run your finger along the tape to ensure that it is firmly seated.
As an alternative to drywall tape, you can apply a cutout of window screening over the entire patch. This screening can be seated into a thin layer of joint compound.
 Use a 6-inch (15 cm) drywall knife to smear a thin layer of joint compound over the patch. Make sure to cover the entire patch as well as each of the 4 seams between the patch and the wall.
 After allowing the first coat to dry overnight, go back over the area using a 12-inch (30 cm) drywall knife. Apply a thin coat as before, extending the coverage area a few inches (cm) and feathering the joint compound as smoothly as possible into the existing wall surface.
 After allowing the final coat of joint compound to dry overnight, sand it gently using a fine-grit sandpaper. The drywall is now ready to be primed and painted to match the existing finish.

