 You can use a hand-held rotary tool or a conventional cordless drill, but either way, the tool should be fitted with a drill bit no larger than 1/8 inch (3.175 mm).Note that smaller beads will require the use of even smaller drill bits.
When drilling holes in glass or stone beads, you will need to use a diamond-tipped drill bit due to the hardness of the material.
For wooden beads, a common drill bit or carbide drill bit should work well enough since these beads are made from a much softer material.;
, Press the bead firmly into toy putty or poster putty. The side you intend to drill into should face up.


The purpose of the putty is to keep the bead still and stable as you drill into it. If preferred, a small clamp or similar surface could be used instead.
Keep a thick layer of putter pressed beneath the bottom of the bead to prevent the drill tip from accidentally drilling into and damaging another surface.
Holding the bead is not recommended. Due to the small size of the bead and the power of the tool, the tool could easily slip as you drill into the bead, injuring your hand in the process.
 Place a small dot on the bead using a fine-tip permanent marker. This dot should be centered directly over the spot you want the hole through.


The dot can serve as a guide for the tip of your drill bit. It is not strictly necessary, but it might help you keep the hole centered.
 Place the putty and clay in a shallow tray, bowl, or cup. Add enough water to the container to keep the bead just barely submerged.The water will help keep the drill bit cool as you work, thereby preventing the tool from overheating during the process.
To further reduce the risk of causing damage to your work surface, you may also want to place the dish of water on top of an acrylic cutting board. Alternatively, you can place a thick leather pad into the container if the container is large enough and the pad is small enough.
Note that this can be dangerous when used around corded drills, which is why a cordless tool is strongly recommended. No matter what type of drill or rotary tool you use, however, work carefully to avoid getting excess water on the tool. Never hold the tool with wet hands, either.
 Bring the drill bit down vertically over the bead so that it lightly touches the mark you created earlier. Turn on the tool for a second or so before switching it off.


If the tool is drilling into the bead correctly, you should see some of the material come off and mix into the water.
Quickly check the surface of the bead when you switch off the tool. You should already see an indentation where the hole is supposed to go.
 Position the tip of the bit over the indentation and switch the drill back on. Gradually work your way through the entire bead until the bit comes out of the opposite side.


For best results, drill into the bead for one second, then pull the bit back up for another second. Drill back into it for another second and pull it back up for one more second. Repeat until you make it all the way through the bead.Drilling in this manner washes the hole as you drill it and puts less pressure on the bead. Less pressure means a smaller risk of cracking or breaking.
Make sure that you drill into the bead at a straight, vertical angle so that the finished hole is even.
Stop as soon as you feel the drill bit break through the other surface. If you stop too soon, you can always continue drilling the hole until you complete it. If you stop too late, you may damage your working surface.
Depending on the depth of the bead and the material you're working with, the drilling process can take anywhere from 30 seconds to 3 minutes.
 After you finish drilling through the bead, pull the bit all the way out and turn off the tool. Check the hole to make sure that it is even and clear.


If the hole looks finished, then the process is complete.

