 Align them and smooth them out to remove wrinkles. Press it flat with an iron, if it is wrinkled.
 You may want to cut a slight curve in the middle, but remember baby clothes tend to have a very small scoop compared to older children and adult clothes.
 Leave the space open in the middle. You can add button closures to give more space for your baby's head at the end.
 Choose a complimentary or contrasting color, depending upon the look you prefer.

To make your own bias tape cut inch-long (2.5 cm) strips of material from a t-shirt or other soft fabric. Make sure that the cloth stretches lengthwise along the strip before you cut it with fabric scissors. You may want to make the tape fabric slightly wider and longer for the neck hole.






Iron the fabric in half lengthwise. You can cut off any excess length after you have pinned it in place.
 Place the outside of the fabric down on the table.
 Use 1 piece that extends from the bottom of 1 armhole across the neckline to the base of the second armhole. You will sew the 2 sides together later on.
 Allow the dress fabric to bunch very slightly at regular intervals, creating a gathered look at the arm holes.
 Repeat on the opposite arm. Leave a 1/4-inch (0.6-cm) seam allowance.


Use a straight edge to mark a line down the back where you will create the closure. Cut down that line.






Fold and iron the fabric toward the inside of your dress at approximately 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) on both sides. Sew a square seam around the folded fabric on each side.






Attach several small elastic loops on 1 side and sew on several buttons at the same level on the other. You may choose to do this after you have completed the rest of your sewing so that your dress will pass easily through the sewing machine.
 Pin the bias tape at the top of the neck, so that it curves around the neck opening. If you have a button closure, make sure there is a gap in the bias tape so that it can open and close.
, Pin the sides together.
 Take care to attach the pieces of bias tape at the arm holes together.
 You can attach the elastic loops by hand or with a seam on your sewing machine.

