 Whenever someone logs into Gmail (or any other login service), a file called a "cookie" is sent to their computer. This cookie allows the user to stay logged in, even if they leave Gmail. A packet sniffer can find cookies being transferred over a wireless network. When you find a Gmail cookie, you can open it on your computer and potentially access your target's inbox. You'll need to be connected to the same wireless network as your target.


This method will not work if your target has encryption enabled (https://). This is enabled by default in Gmail, so its usefulness is limited.Using a packet sniffer on a public network to intercept traffic is illegal.
 Wireshark is a free network monitoring utility that you can download from wireshark.org. It is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux. Installing Wireshark is a straightforward process. Follow the prompts like you would with most programs.During installation, make sure to install the TShark component. This is essential for grabbing cookies over the wireless network. You will also need to install "WinPcap."

, This is a Java program that will will find and intercept cookies being sent across the wireless network. Cookie Cadger doesn't need to be installed. It works the same in every operating system.


You will need to have Java 7 installed in order to use Cookie Cadger. You can download Java from java.com/download. See How to Install Java for more details.
 You will need to be connected to the same wireless network as your target. This means you'll need to be close.
 Wireshark will need to be running in order for Cookie Cadger to work.
 Select the adapter connected to the wireless network from the drop-down menu. You should see the main frame populate with unsecured cookies from other people using the network.
 The second column will display a list of domains that Cookie Cadger is finding cookies for. Look for Google domains, particularly mail.google.com.


Remember, this only works if the target is not using https. If their connection is secure, you will not be able to find the cookie.
 This will load the cookie into your own web browser. The right cookie will take you directly to the target's inbox.


You will no longer be able to access their Gmail when the person logs out.