 Go to Walmart and buy some good-quality shampoo and conditioner for your hair. Wash your hair like this: Wet your hair with warm or lukewarm water for 40 seconds in the shower. Next, apply the shampoo to your hair and wash from your scalp to ends. Rinse with warm water. Do the same with the conditioner, but rinse your hair with cold water once you're finished. Style as desired.;
, Every day, you should soak them in coconut or olive oil. Microwave some for 25 seconds and soak your nails for 5 minutes with the oil. Pat them dry. If you do this daily, by the end of the month, your nails will be longer and stronger! You can paint them if you want, too. Paint them vibrant, bold colors or dark, neutral colors. Maybe even a mixture of both! Do the same with your toenails, too.
 For your face, wash it two times a day with a bar of soap and warm water. Use a moisturizing lotion afterwards. For your body, use an all-natural soap that smells nice and works well on your skin. To see if a skin product works on your skin, apply some to your wrist and wait 24 hours. If nothing happens to your wrist, you can use that product. If not, try something else for your body or face.
 Here's how you can do that: Every morning and night, take a toothbrush and put lotion on it. Rub the bristles on your lips until everything transfers from your toothbrush to your lips. Get a towel and wet it with warm water. Wipe the lotion off with the towel and apply a Chapstick Classic. They're unscented, so that way you don't lick your lips, trying to taste your lip balm. After a month of doing this, your lips will be as soft and smooth as silk.
 Brush them two times a day: In the morning and in the evening. Use a floride-enriched toothpaste and a good-quality toothbrush. You can use mouthwash, too. I recommend Listerine Cool Mint Mouthwash. It's fresh. clean, and helps your teeth, gums, and tongue a lot more than you think. Also, remember to brush your gums, the backs of your teeth and in between each tooth. Get a new toothbrush every 3-4 months, since it will probably be worn out from all that brushing.
 Don't be a clone and copy what the models are wearing on the runway! Mix what those models wear with what you like to wear. Models are wearing kitten heels? You like skirts? Wear a plain shirt, a knee-length black skirt, and black kitten heels. Models are wearing tank tops? You like Converse sneakers? Wear a tank top in your favorite color, jeans or shorts, and Converse sneakers.
 First, you have to ask your parents first if you're under the age of 13 or if you haven't asked them yet. If your parents say yes, keep it subtle. Wear pencil eyeliner, light eyeshadow, pink blush and lip gloss. If your parents say no, just keep a Chapstick around with you.
 Nobody likes someone that is rude and is selfish. Help other people, join a community service group, use kind words and never use bad ones. People will see the kindness and generosity in you and will reward you for it.
 Study hard, do extra credit if your teacher allows it, and never think that you can't get a good grade. If you get bad grades, you could get grounded, called dumb by most people that find out about your grades, and won't make you seem hot at all. Always get good grades, no matter what.
 You're hot!

