 Getting your loved one to open up to you about specific fears and concerns may be a good first step toward getting that person to see a therapist.


Try opening the conversation by admitting to some of your own fears and worries. This might make the dialogue feel like more of a conversation about fear and therapy, rather than a command to get help.
If you have any other friends who have had success with therapy, consider citing that person as an example of how effective therapy can be.
You can also ask your friend who has been through therapy to discuss their experiences with your loved on to help pacify their fears and to answer questions.
 Logic and reason are the only things that will successfully dismantle fear and negative thinking.If your loved one is afraid that therapy becomes a never-ending cycle, let her know that this is not the case. Most cognitive behavioral therapy sessions span the course of 10-20 sessions, though some may go on for longer or shorter time periods.Some psychotherapy sessions can span the course of 1-2 years, depending on the issues being addressed, though some patients feel better after just one session.And remember, your loved one can always decide that she has been to enough sessions. There is no locked-in agreement.
If your loved one is afraid of the cost of therapy, help her look for therapists that take insurance or work for reduced fees.
No matter what your friend or loved one is afraid of, try to alleviate each concern by telling her, "That won't be a problem" and offering some kind of solution or course of action.
Some therapists offer a free consultation over the phone before committing to an appointment. This might provide your loved one with an opportunity to ask questions about their fears, and to also begin the process of getting to know the therapist.
 Finding a therapist to meet your loved one's needs can be easily done online. The American Psychological Association offers a free psychologist-locator service at http://locator.apa.org/.
 You probably won't be able to join her during the session, but having someone there to support her might make the transition into therapy a little easier. Some therapists may even allow you to join the session, with your loved one's consent, of course.