 If you've missed a few payments, your lender may be able to work out a loan from the Federal Housing Administration. You can usually qualify if your payment is late by at least four months but less than twelve months. If you obtain a partial loan, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development will make a payment to your lender and make your loan current. These loans are typically interest-free., Several programs administered by the US Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban Development are designed to help homeowners facing foreclosure. These programs can help you with refinancing, modifying your loans, and obtaining financial aid to avoid foreclosure.A list of government programs designed to help homeowners facing foreclosure is available here.


There are also companies that provide similar services for people facing foreclosure. Be sure to investigate counseling agencies or anyone offering you help with your foreclosure. You can call the Department of Housing and Urban Development at 1-800-569-4287 to see if a company has been federally approved to provide this service.You can also contact your state Attorney General, the State Real Estate Commission, or your local Consumer Fraud Unit to see if these people have had any complaints or legal action against them., While this may be an unappealing option, filing for bankruptcy can help save your home. Bankruptcy delays the process of foreclosure. This can help get you the time you need to pay off the loan or work out an arrangement with your lender.Remember that filing for bankruptcy won't protect you indefinitely. While bankruptcy usually stops the foreclosure process until your bankruptcy case closes, your lender can get court permission to reopen the case.
 If no other steps help, it's possible that you simply can't afford your home. In this case, you can sell your home before the lender begins foreclosure motions. You can use the earnings from selling the home to cover the rest of your mortgage. While this method won't keep you in your home, selling the property is far less damaging to your credit score and finances than facing foreclosure.Stay in contact with your lender during this process. You may be allowed to stop making payments while trying to sell your house. Your lender is more likely to accept this if you can demonstrate that your family has experienced some kind of hardship like an illness or job loss.
If the house sale won't cover the mortgage, ask your lender about a short sale. This means that your lender will accept the proceeds from the house, even if they are less than you owe. It is best to contact a real estate agent or attorney when proceeding with a short sale. Sometimes lenders will still come after you for the remainder of the loan if you don't specify that the short sale will cancel your debt., If you cannot find a buyer for your home within a given period- usually a few months- you can return the deed to the lender. This is essentially the same as a foreclosure, since the lender takes possession of the house and resells it. However, if you voluntarily hand the deed back, the lender won't file this as a foreclosure. This will save your credit rating and make it easier for you to get back on your feet afterwards.