 There are a number of potential causes of dark under-eye circles, including a lack of sleep.Be sure to get 7-8 hours of sleep every night to diminish the appearance of dark circles and to improve your overall health.


Try sleeping in a different position. If you sleep on your side or stomach, gravity might be working to collect fluid under your eyes, which contributes to dark circles. Position yourself on your back for sleeping. If you naturally roll over in your sleep, try bolstering your body into position with pillows.Use an extra pillow or two to elevate your head so that fluid doesn’t collect under your eyes., Allergies to seasonal triggers (pollen, for example), as well as to dust, pet dander and other things can make your eyes look puffy and the area under your eyes can look darkened. Take allergy medication to control your allergy symptoms. Alternately, limit your exposure to the allergens that are bothering you.


Dark circles under the eyes are a common symptom that indicates a food allergy or sensitivity. Common food allergens are wheat, soy, egg whites, peanuts, sugar and others. Try eliminating foods that you might be sensitive to., Dark circles can be caused in part by vitamin deficiencies, such as a lack of calcium, iron, vitamins A, E and B12, and antioxidants. Consume more leafy green vegetables and eat foods rich in these vitamins. Reduce your intake of salt., Alcohol causes the skin to become dry and thin, so cutting down on your alcohol consumption may improve the appearance of under eye circles and puffiness., Smoking weakens collagen, causing skin to prematurely wrinkle and thin, which can make dark circles look more dramatic. Refrain from smoking and avoid being in areas where there is smoke.
 Wearing sunscreen on your face can help prevent dark rings from appearing in the first place, and can prevent existing circles from getting any darker.Apply sunscreen about 15 minutes before going outside. Reapply sunscreen every two hours that you’re outside.Wear sunglasses also when you’re out in the sun to prevent you from squinting and to protect your eyes.

