 Sift the flour, corn starch, and salt into a medium mixing bowl. Stir well to combine.If desired, you could sift the combined dry ingredients a second time to remove any lumps that formed during the mixing process. The second sift is not strictly necessary, though.
 Pour the water into the dry ingredients. Whisk it into the mixture until a smooth batter forms.


Continue whisking and beating the batter for a few minutes to work out any lumps. The batter should be as smooth as possible before you continue.
 Pour the oil into a medium frying pan. Place the pan on the stove over medium heat.


If you don't want to use vegetable oil, you could grease the pan with nonstick cooking spray, instead.
Turn the pan to spread the oil across the bottom. When the oil is hot enough, it should spread without difficulty.
 Scoop up 1/4 cup (60 ml) or less of the batter, then carefully pour it into the center of the pan.


Working quickly, rotate the pan to spread the batter into a thin, wide circle.
Alternatively, you could spread the batter with the back of the ladle or with a moist pastry brush.
 Cook the wrapper for several minutes. As soon as the edges begin peeling up, remove the wrapper from the pan using a spatula or fork.


Neither side should brown, but both sides should be set.
If the top does not appear set when the edges begin rising, carefully flip the wrapper over to the other side and cook it for an additional few seconds before removing it completely.
 Pour and cook the remaining batter, following the same procedure. Continue until you no longer have any batter left.


Stack the finished wrappers on top of one another, placing wax paper or parchment paper in between layers to prevent them from sticking together.
Cover the entire stack with a damp paper towel to prevent the wrappers from drying out.
 These wrappers are best when used immediately, but if necessary, you can store them in airtight containers in your refrigerator for several days.


Keep the layers separated during refrigeration.
Note that you may need to dampen the wrappers with a little water before use if they dry out during refrigeration.

