 The common clinical signs associated with aspirin toxicity are the result of liver damage and lack of oxygen in the blood cells. The clinical signs are as follows:


Vomiting
Drooling
Loss of appetite
Tremors/ Seizures
Coma
Lethargy and panting
Hypoxia and difficulty breathing
Abdominal pain (owner can spot it by an arched back).
Brown discoloration of the gums due to production of methemoglobin, followed by blue discoloration indicating an inadequate oxygen supply.
In severe cases, shock and collapse.;
, Aspirin poisoning in dogs can be treated effectively through early detection and aggressive treatment.


The basic objectives of the treatment are to stabilize the animal, decontaminate them, convert methemoglobin to hemoglobin, and prevent the failure of liver (necrosis).
As an owner, you are advised to consult with your veterinarian immediately, as the prognosis is poor in the case of severe methemoglobinemia or hepatic damage.
 Aspirin poisoning may result in oxygen deprivation, hyperthermia, bleeding from ulcers, and/or systemic acidosis, so before treatment can be given, the animal must first be stabilized.


If the animal is suffering from hypoxia and goes into a coma, it is recommended to give assisted ventilation and an artificial oxygen supply. Some toxic patients may show signs of seizures (inter-changeable convulsion). This can be treated with diazepam @ 0.5-1.0 mg/kg intravenously with an increment up to 5-10 mg/kg.
In case of hemorrhage and bleeding, intravenous fluids such as whole blood (2-5 mg/kg/minutes in dog) can be given to prevent dehydration and shock. Electrolyte therapy is also indicated to manage renal function and hypotension after assessing the degree of dehydration. Sodium bicarbonate can also be administered via IV infusion to prevent systemic acidosis.
 Emesis, or vomiting, should be induced to evacuate the aspirin from the digestive tract for rapid results. Never attempt to decontaminate your dog at home without consulting your vet.


3% Hydrogen peroxide (1-3ml/kg) is orally administered to induce vomiting in your dog. The dose of hydrogen peroxide is a maximum of 45 mL for all ages and weights of dog.
The affected dog should vomit within 15 minutes. However, you should be aware that vomiting is contraindicated in some dogs.
 Gastric lavage can be performed if the patient is contraindicated for emesis, but this is less effective than emesis.


Activated charcoal (2-3 grams/kg) is most frequently used for gastric lavage in dogs to absorb the aspirin compounds. A laxative (e.g. castor oil, bisacodyl, magnesium sulphate, or hydroxide) should be used in combination with the activated charcoal to speed up the passing of the aspirin. However, the use of laxatives is contraindicated in the case of dehydrated dogs and those suffering from diarrhea.
 Unfortunately, there is no specific therapy (antidote) for aspirin poisoning in dogs. N-acetylcysteine is frequently recommended by many veterinarians as it directly binds with aspirin compounds and eliminates them. It can also reduce the extent of liver damage and the formation of Methemoglobin by binding the reactive metabolic substances of aspirin.


N-acetylcysteine (5%) solution at a loading dose of 140 mg/kg followed by 70 mg/kg orally is recommended for the treatment of aspirin poisoning. The therapy should be continued every 4 hours for at least 3-5 consecutive doses of acetylcysteine.
Vitamin C preparations like ascorbic acid (30 mg/kg orally) are also recommended to enhance the reserve system of methemoglobin restoration. The hepato-toxicity can be treated with cimetidine @ 5-10 mg/kg, IV every 8 hours, and this may continue for up to 4 weeks.
 Most veterinarians recommend a maximum of 15 to 20 mg/kg of aspirin over a 48 hour period, for a maximum of 3 weeks.


Use of aspirin in 25 mg/kg doses three times daily can cause gastric ulceration in 50% of dogs within two days.
Acute toxicity with gastro-intestinal tract disturbances, panting, hypothermia, and even coma can occur as a result of the accidental ingestion of more than 400 to 500 mg/kg.
 Try to keep all medicine out of your pet's reach. Avoid dropping medication on the floor or leaving the bottle within your dog's reach.


Always check with your vet before giving aspirin to your dog, even in small doses.

