 Tie and bundle all the loose wires, and, if possible, enclose them in an appropriate covering. Remove any additional devices you don't use and put them away. Keeping cords and devices organized will help keep cats from chewing on electric cords and chargers and should make the area less interesting to your cat.Don't forget about laptop cords. While laptops are easy to carry about the house with you, their thin cords are an invitation to curious felines. Be sure to keep the cords out of sight and definitely not dangling or jiggling around for the cat to play with.;
, Part of the problem with having a cat near your computer is that they can knock things over onto the computer. This is can be a really big problem if your cat knocks some sort of liquid onto your computer. To reduce the chance of this type of problem, try to keep all liquids away from your computer.If you need to have liquids near your computer, such as something you are drinking while working, put it in a liquid-tight container and keep the container closed when you are not actively drinking it. With a container like this, even if your cat knocks it over it won't spill all over your computer.
 There are various dust and keyboard covers for sale in computer retail outlets that can keep your cat at bay. Alternatively, you could install a keyboard tray that allows you to place the keyboard under your desk when not in use.Don't cover the keyboard of a laptop while it is turned on. Doing so could trap too much heat from the computer. Instead, simply close your laptop when not in use.
If you don't cover up your keyboard there is the possibility that a wandering kitty might erase work or files, or even crash computers should the wrong keys get pressed in the right sequence.
 Shut the laptop when you are not using it, so that your cat cannot disturb it. You should also put it away, so that its residual warmth doesn't attract the cat's attention as well.Even when shut, claws can leave scratch marks on the laptop surface, so putting in a spot that the cat can't access is also important.
 If you go out of the room, shoo the cat out as well. Leaving your cat alone with your computer invites it to play with the keyboard, screen, and associated wires.Even leaving your cat alone with your computer for a few minutes can lead to trouble. It's best to avoid problems and never leave your cat alone with the computer.
 The simplest way to keep your cat away from your computer is to exclude it from your work area completely. Keeping the door to the office closed is a very easy way to keep a cat and computer separate, whether you're in the room or not.Some cats are more insistent than others about being let into rooms they want access to. This may not work for cats that will claw at the door or meow repeatedly to get into your office.

