 While you don’t want to rely on caffeine in order to stay awake and alert while driving, there’s nothing wrong with the odd cuppa to perk up your senses. After all, studies have shown that caffeine sharpens your brain function and focus for several hours after consumption. Just make sure you don’t overdo it–coffee is a diuretic, meaning you might be pulling over for bathroom breaks more often than you like if you have too much!If coffee makes you jittery, try low-caffeine beverages such as soda or green tea.
 Music with an accelerated beat has been shown to have an energizing effect which can override symptoms of fatigue.It can also keep your mind occupied and stimulated, so consider putting your favorite CD or Pandora station on the next time you need to drive at night. Opt for old favorites to which you can sing along, as the act of singing makes your body release more endorphins.You don’t have to pump up the volume in order to pump up your energy. While loud music may help you get energized, it has been shown to affect driving performance adversely.Be sure not to fiddle with the song selection or volume while driving. Always wait until you are stopped in a safe place to make any adjustments to your playlist.
 Music can be a great way to stay alert and engaged, but you should consider the genre and beat of the music before switching it on. Slow ballads or soothing classical music can relax your body, lower your heart rate, and slow your breathing, effectively turning a potential stimulant into a soporific sonata.Similarly, avoid a podcast host or audiobook narrator whose voice strikes you as soft and calming. You can use them to relax during the day or fall asleep to at night, but putting them on in the car can be dangerously doze-inducing.
 If your mind wanders when you listen to music, try listening instead to a narrated audiobook, podcast, or radio news show. You might find that the narrative format requires you to follow along and stay more focused than music does. Pick a non-fiction subject or novel which you know you love and doesn’t take a long time to hook you in.For example, if you love to watch detective shows at home, buy an Agatha Christie audiobook or other suspenseful mystery. If you love history, download a podcast that discusses interesting historical topics, such as Stuff You Missed in History Class or The History Chicks.
 If you find yourself getting drowsy in spite of your favorite music blasting on the stereo and plenty of coffee, you might want to pull over to a rest area, gas station, or parking lot. Getting out of the car and taking a brisk walk will get your heart rate up, get your leg muscles moving, and boost brain function. This can be particularly helpful if it’s cold outside, as cold temperatures act as a jolt to the system, spiking energy and alertness.If you’re on a long road trip, take a walk every time you stop for gas or bathroom breaks along the way.
 Feeling chilly and even shivering a bit can make you uncomfortable. This general discomfort has been shown to help keep your senses alert and poised at the ready, so blow some chilled, rejuvenating air onto your face and neck next time you start to feel cozily drowsy behind the wheel.In addition to dousing yourself in some cool, night air, you can drink an ice cold beverage or sit on a cold compress.Just don’t count on these remedial measures having a long-term effect: they can help to refresh you, but they won’t solve your fatigue for hours at a time.