 Although this doesn't directly apply to safety, you don't want to overheat and pass out. Wear light clothes and avoid bogging yourself down with multiple layers of clothing. You'll be sweating a lot, so consider wearing darker colors to conceal your sweat stains.;
, Drink plenty of water prior to the concert to avoid getting dehydrated and passing out. You'll be sweating, so your body will need lots of water to replenish its lost fluids.
 You are at the risk of getting mugged on the way to/from the concert as well as when you're there, so be sure to hide your money. Consider putting it in your front pocket, your shoe, or another place that makes it harder to steal. Also, avoid flashing your money around. If people see you with large sums of money, you could become a target., This is an important safety tip, since there's safety in numbers. Attend the concert with at least one friend. Carpool there or plan to meet at the venue or bus station.
 You should have a good meal at least an hour before the concert. This will give your stomach time to digest the food so that you don't get over-excited and throw up at the concert.
 Security guards will watch for you, but take a moment to scope out the area and find the nearest security guard, just in case.
 If someone seems strange, keep an eye on them. Some people just give off weird vibes or make you feel uncomfortable. If this is the case, try to move away from them if possible. If they follow you, alert security.
 Know that people might be smoking weed. Usually people avoid doing drugs around kids, but this is not always the case. If people are doing drugs, let a security guard know. If someone asks you if you want a hit, politely decline. If someone offers you any substances, just say no, and try not to make a big deal about it unless they do. If they persist, report them to security.
 Getting driven to and from the concert is safer than walking or taking the bus, even if you're with friends. Set a meeting place close to the venue to avoid confusion.
 This applies to the subway as well. Always stay in the front, near the operator. You should try to get your parent to pick you up once you arrive at the terminal/bus stop.
 Even if Google Maps is telling you to walk down a block to get to your bus stop, take the closest bus, then get off and make your connection to whatever bus or train you need to go home.

