 If you want to make gratitude a habit, then you should start keeping a gratitude journal to write down all of the things you’re thankful for each week. Just pick a day to do it each week, such as a Sunday afternoon, and make a list of at least 10-20 things that you’re thankful for that week. You may feel like you don’t have too much to be grateful for, but once you make an effort to really think about it, you’ll see that there’s plenty in your life to be happy about.If you read through your journal just once a month, you’ll be able to see how much you really have to be grateful for.
You can even keep your list taped above your computer to make yourself feel fulfilled throughout your work day.
 Yoga is all about the practice of gratitude, and about offering your mind and body in a gesture of gratitude and contentment. If you want to make gratitude a part of your lifestyle, then make sure you go to at least 2-3 yoga classes a week and say “Namaste” to show how grateful you are for every breath you take. You can also do yoga at home instead, if you feel more comfortable making your offerings that way.


Practicing yoga means putting away your judgment and being thankful for the healthy body you have been given. It means offering it all up to the world, greeting the sun, and feeling good about everything you have been given.
Yoga is about doing things at your own pace, and not coveting what skills or experience your neighbor has. This can help you develop a more grateful mindset about the rest of the world, too.
 Volunteering is another way that you can show how grateful you are for all of the advantages you have in this life. No matter how busy you are, you can try to carve out a few hours each month to help tutor at your local library, work at a soup kitchen, help out at your local school, or clean up a park in your community. Making the effort to build a community and to focus on someone other than yourself is one of the best ways that you can truly show gratitude.


Being around people who have so much less than you do can remind you that you should take nothing for granted. You may find that these people can also teach you how to be truly grateful.
 Too many people use social media to make fun of other people or to complain about their days or the state of the world. Though there are plenty of reasons to complain and more than a handful of reasons to be down on the world, sometimes, you should try to break the mold by posting a message about something you’re grateful about, or by thanking someone for brightening up your day. This is a great way to express gratitude to many people at once, and it takes little effort.


It doesn't have to come off as corny to shout out one of your friends to thank her for all she has done for you. As long as it comes from the heart, people will appreciate it.
Give other people something to be thankful about, too. Share a fun fact about food, nature, or even kittens. It doesn't have to be super serious. As long as you’re getting away from the general trend of posting the most depressing news articles and complaining about the world, you’ll be doing a good thing.
 If you really want to express gratitude, then you should avoid complaining as much as possible. Though sometimes it can feel great to let it all out, you should make a habit of talking about the positive things in your life much more than the negative. If all you do is complain about work, then it won’t seem like you’re grateful that you have a job. If you complain about your significant other all the time, then you won’t be showing gratitude for his love and support. Work on being optimistic instead of looking for reasons to complain, and you’ll be on your way to expressing gratitude more often.If you complain every chance you get, then you won’t be able to see all the good things in your life. Though everyone has something to be upset about, you should focus on verbalizing all of the things you’re happy about, and you’ll be on your way to expressing gratitude in a much more acceptable way.
 Another way to express gratitude is to be more affectionate with the people you care about. Be more easy to give hugs, to put your arm around a loved one, and to kiss your children or your significant other. Take more time to cuddle with your partner, and the next time you see a friend, go for a hug instead of just a wave or a smile. Being affectionate shows how much you appreciate all of the people in your life.


Make sure the person you’re hugging is a hugger, too. It’s important to be affectionate, but you don’t want to make people uncomfortable.
Kiss your significant other at least twice a day to show you care.
 If you want to live a more grateful life, then you should avoid gossiping about people as much as possible. Instead, focus on saying nice things about people behind their backs and on feeling positive about the people around you. Instead of spreading rumors or putting people down, work on lifting them up. Show that you care about and appreciate the people in your life and don’t be ungrateful by dragging their names in the mud.


Plus, if your friends hear that you’re saying good things about them behind their backs, they’ll start saying nice things about you when you’re not around. This is a great way of spreading good karma!

, One major way to live a more grateful life is to be present in the moment instead of worrying about something that happened in the past or thinking about the future. Living in the moment will help you appreciate every breath you take, every smile you see, and every bite of food you eat, and if you focus on enjoying the journey you’re on, you’ll be able to be much more grateful every second of the way.


Write about your worries or fears in a journal or just set a daily worrying time for yourself. This will keep you from clouding your entire days with thoughts of the future.
Try not to hold grudges or to get stuck in the past. Be grateful for the relationships you’re having now instead of being bitter about the road bumps in the past.

