 Knowing the underlying causes may help you find the best pain remedy, as well as help you to prevent future canker sores.


Sodium lauryl sulfate, an ingredient in many toothpastes and mouth rinses, may cause a reaction in your mouth which leads to a canker sore.
Food sensitivities to things like chocolate, coffee, strawberries, eggs, nuts, cheese, and spicy or acidic foods or a diet lacking in vitamin B-12, zinc, folate (folic acid) or iron may cause canker sores.
 Minor, localized injuries to your mouth, such as biting the inside of your cheek, a sports accident, or brushing your teeth too vigorously, may inflame the tissue and cause an ulcer.


Wear a mouthguard during contact sports to prevent accidental cheek biting or other damage from your teeth.
Use only a toothbrush with a soft head to brush your teeth.
 Some diseases and conditions, such as celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, Behcet’s disease, and various autoimmune disorders may make you more prone to mouth ulcers. Ask your doctor for more ways to prevent mouth ulcers in your circumstances., Sometimes a misaligned or sharp tooth, or dental implements such as braces or dentures, rub against the inside of your cheek, irritating your canker sore. A homemade wax “cap” can protect ease the pain by protecting the sore from that friction.


Melt 1 tablespoon of beeswax and 2 teaspoons of coconut oil together. After it has cooled, press a small amount over the area of your tooth or dental devices that rubs the sore.
If you have braces, use enough wax that it creates an actual barrier, rather than just pushed into and around the brace.
 If the canker sore has been caused by a sharp tooth or filling irritating the inside of your cheek, you should feel relief as soon as you seek treatment.Your dentist will tell you if you are a candidate for recontouring. If your enamel is too thin, any filing may cause sensitivity to temperature that may be painful.Your dentist can "recontour" your teeth by removing tiny bits of enamel with a sanding disc or a fine diamond burr. He or she will shape and smooth the sides with sandpaper, and then will polish your tooth or teeth., Some research shows an increase in canker sores as stress levels increase. Try adding relaxing activities to your routine such as yoga, meditation, or exercise.