 Apply this chemical to the pavement or public space with a garden sprayer before the storm hits. It’s best to apply this a couple hours before a winter storm.The chemical will melt snowfalls that are less than two inches. It will also keep ice from adhering to hard surfaces like pavement or public spaces.
You can also apply deicers during a snowfall after you’ve removed the first layer of snow.
You should expect to use about 1 gallon of the chemical for every 1,000 square feet of pavement. You should be able to buy it at hardware stores.
Chemicals can be very toxic to plants and animals. Follow all directions, and consider other methods if you have pets or expensive landscaping.
 Rock salt works at temperatures that are above 12 degrees Fahrenheit, although it’s not a good idea to put it on concrete or grass. You can purchase rock salt, otherwise known as sodium chloride, at many gas stations or grocery stores.


Store the rock salt in a sealed bucket, and spread it around the public space or pavement with a handheld spreader or a push spreader. It will melt the ice and prevent the area from being a hazard for slipping. Use about a handful for every square yard.
If you’re not a fan of salt, you could try urea, which is usually used as a fertilizer and performs the same function as rock salt. It can be hard to find, though. The key is to find a deicer. Alfalfa meal is another fertilizer that helps melt snow.
One downside of rock salt is that it can harm plants or pets, and it doesn’t really work if the temperature is below 25 degrees. It can also leach into soil.
 Calcium chloride pellets melt ice faster than rock salt does, and they have some other advantages as a deicer.Calcium chloride is effective with colder temperatures than rock salt. It works with temperatures of up to minus 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
Calcium chloride can be harmful to pets or animals, and it costs a lot more than rock salt, though. It also can cause a surface to become slippery.
Prolonged use of chemical snow melt can damage concrete and asphalt, if used to excess. Treat sparingly.
 While this won’t remove the ice per se, if you’re having a hard time getting it off the pavement, it’s a better option than risking a fall.


The sand and kitty litter work because they add traction to icy surfaces. They make it less likely that a person will fall. The downside of kitty litter is that it will still be there and look messy when the snow melts.
You want to choose sandbox sand that is thicker instead of mason’s sand because mason’s sand is too fine. You could also use bird seed for this same purpose.

