 Photo books and albums are necessary for scrapbooking projects. Pictures, memorabilia, paper cutouts, notes, ticket stubs, and so on are arranged in these books and then are usually fastened into place.Photo books and albums, especially high quality ones, can be quite expensive. Save your scrapbooker money by buying these and giving them as presents.
Even if you scrapbooker has photo books or albums already, eventually they'll need more. Extra books and albums will always come in handy for true scrapbooking enthusiasts.;
, These can be found easily online, but you'll also likely be able to find them at craft and hobby stores. Some tools you might find in these sets includes pliers (assorted kinds), hooks, thread cutters, needles, awls, wire cutters/snips.


If you can't find a designated crafting tool set, a jewelry tool set should work just as well. However, some tools included in jewelry making sets may only be useful for jewelry making.
Scrapbookers tend to work with many different mediums. By having a set of craft tools on hand, your scrapbooker will be prepared for any eventuality., Scrapbookers frequently use adhesive, like glue and tape, to attach scrapbook elements to the book pages. When selecting a glue, try to find one that is usable on a wide range of mediums, like American Crafts This to That adhesive or 3L Scrapbook Adhesive. Whichever brand you settle on, be sure it works with transparencies, paper, photos, and vellum.


Transparencies, paper, photos, and vellum are some of the most common mediums scrapbookers use. Choosing adhesives that work with these mediums will be the most useful to your scrapbooker.
Decorative tape or washi tape can add a dash of style to humdrum, everyday varieties.
Suitable adhesives can be found through online art/craft supply sellers, or at your local hobby/craft store., Over the course of putting together a scrapbook, a scrapbooker will often add embellishments, like border designs. Some craft scissors cut in unique designs, like zigzags, as opposed to straight lines. These kinds of cutting tools can make interesting border designs a cinch.High quality and precision cutting tools are also highly useful for scrapbookers. Utility knives, for example, are an excellent choice.
When buying scissors, buy assorted sizes. Large sets works better than small sets in some situations and vice versa.
 Quality paper is noticeable at a glance, and will surely make your scrapbooker's projects look more polished. You can even choose paper with your scrapbooker's favorite animals, designs (like stripes or polka dots), and so on.


High quality paper can also be quite expensive, and scrapbookers tend to use a lot of it. Even if your scrapbooker has a stockpile, extra paper will come in handy.