 Look for the app icon on your home screen or app drawer (green circle with red heart). Tap it to open.


If you don’t have the app yet, you can get it for free from the Google Play store.;
, The first time you open the app, you will be greeted with its terms & conditions. Tap “Agree” to continue.
 Tap “Create New Profile,” and on the next screen, select one of the avatars you want to use for your account. On the fields enter a display name (name shown to other HI-Health users) and email address. On the last field, enter a 4-digit PIN. This PIN is what you will use to open the app and view your information. When you’re done, tap the arrow at the top right of the screen.


If you already have a profile, tap “Retrieve profile” and select the account you used with HI-Health to log in.
 The next screen will ask for your date of birth, sex, height, weight, waist, hip, and activity level. Enter these into their respective boxes, and tap the right arrow at the top to proceed.
 You will now be entering the dashboard of the app, but before you can access it, you must enter the 4-digit PIN you created. Do so, and tap the arrow button at the top.


The dashboard will show your current weight as well as some shortcut buttons to the app’s features: weight tracker, food intake/calorie tracker, activity tracker, water intake tracker, and heart rate.
 This is especially helpful if you’ve been on a diet and you want to know how much weight you’ve been losing over the past weeks. Every time you believe there has been a significant drop (or growth) of weight, log it in using the weight tracker.


On the dashboard, tap the weighing scale icon (left-most icon) below your current weight. Enter your current weight into the field. You can change between kilograms and pounds by tapping the drop-down option next to the field. Add a little note into the Note field, like “First week of diet,” if you want. When you’re done, tap the checkmark at the top.
On the next screen, you will be shown your ideal body weight (based on the information you provided during profile creation) and average BMI. A graph will also be displayed showing the changes you’ve made to your weight.
Slide the screen to the left to view the history of your weight tracker.
If you want to add another weight to the tracker, just tap the plus (+) sign at the top and enter your new weight.
 The app will allow you to take note of what you’re eating every day. It also provides the number of calories that a particular food has and how much calories you have eaten in a day.


Tap the burger icon on the dashboard. In the Search Food tab, enter the food or drink you had. For example, you ate eggs for breakfast, so type in “eggs.” The app will search for information regarding the food you entered.
From the results, select the specific food you ate. For example, the eggs you ate were boiled, so select “boiled egg” from the results. You will be taken to the food information page.
On the food information page you will see the calories that particular food has. You can enter here, in the Servings box, the quantity of the particular food you ate. Changing servings will also change the number of calories displayed at the top.
Change the meal type to either breakfast, lunch, snack, or dinner by tapping on the option from the drop-down list. Add a description if you want, and tap the checkmark at the top to save your food information. You will be taken to your health diary, which lists all the food you had for the day and the total calories you have already eaten.
To add more food, tap “Add food” and repeat the process of searching for the food and adding it to your list.
 If you’re exercising or doing some other activity, and want to track the number of calories you lost through that activity, you can add it to your tracker. The number of calories lost will be deducted from your total calories for that day.


On the dashboard, tap the running man icon. Scroll through the list of activities or search for it using the search bar at the top. Once you find an activity, tap on it.
Select whether you want to log the activity (this is done if you’ve already done the activity and want to input it into your diary) or track it (when you will be doing the activity right away).
If you log the activity, tap “Log” and enter the number of minutes spent during the activity. The number of calories burned will be shown in the field below. To record this, tap the checkmark at the top.
If you want to actively track the activity, tap “Start now” and in the next screen tap “Start.” The timer on the screen will start running, tracking the minutes you are spending doing the activity and the number of kcal you’re burning. To stop tracking tap the stop button. You can save the information by tapping “Save” at the bottom of the screen.
Once you’ve saved, whether after tracking or logging, you will be taken to your health diary. The number of calories burned will be deducted from the calories you’ve eaten. To add an activity, tap “Add activity” and repeat the process of searching for the activity and logging it.
 Water is important in maintaining a healthy life. Ideally, you should drink 8 glasses of water. If you want to track the number of glasses you’ve had daily, you can do so.


Tap the water bottle icon on the dashboard. Enter the number of cups you’ve drank into the text box, and tap the checkmark at the top to save.
This information will be added to your health diary, under the list of food you’ve eaten. To add more water information, tap “Add water.”

, Tap the heart icon from the dashboard and place a finger on your device’s back camera. When you’re ready, tap “Start” on the screen, and the app will begin detecting your pulse. Once its done, your heart rate bpm will be displayed.


You can add a note, if you want, in the Take Note field, and save the information by tapping “Set” at the bottom.
 The app itself doesn’t take your blood pressure, but you can still track it whenever you go to the doctor to check your BP or check it yourself. This way you will know how your BP is doing throughout the days, weeks, and even months, depending how long you track it.


To start tracking your BP, tap the three-bar icon at the top right of the screen to open the app menu. From here, select “Blood pressure.”
Add your current BP by tapping the plus icon at the top and then adding the BP measurements into the fields provided. When you’re done, tap the checkmark at the top.
To view the history of your BP, just swipe to the left from the Blood Pressure screen. It will list the date you took the BP and your BP measurements.
 When you’re about to sleep, open the app menu and select “Sleep.” Tap the toggle switch at the top to red, signifying that the tracker has been turned on. The app will time your sleep and log the details on the screen.


When you wake up in the morning, tap the toggle button to gray to turn off the tracking. Your sleep information will be displayed on the screen. You can save it by tapping the checkmark at the top.
To view your sleep history, just swipe to the left on the Sleep screen.

