 You can open any Internet browser you might have (Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, or Google Chrome, to name a few) by double-click on its icon.;
, On the address bar at the top of the screen, type in www.kayak.com, and hit Enter. Kayak’s web page will load on your browser.
 Near the top right of the page, on the black bar, you should see “Log in” in gray letters. Click “Log in” and the login window will pop up.


Enter your email address and password on the fields provided and click “Log in.” Kayak’s page should reload, and you should be logged in
If you signed up for Kayak using your Facebook account, click the blue “Log in with Facebook” button. Kayak’s page should reload, and you should be logged in.
 You will see a bar at the center of the page where you enter the following information needed for your price alerts:


Click “Round Trip,” “One-way,” or “Multi-City.”
Enter the airport you will depart from into the field provided. Kayak’s page will show suggestions for the city you type in to help you find the correct airport.
Enter your destination into the field provided. Kayak’s page will show suggestions for the city you type in to help you find the correct airport.
Choose the departure and arrival dates for your flight by clicking the calendar icons and the time drop-down menus.
Choose any optional choices you want to make, such as adding nearby airports, choosing alternate dates, or comparing other sites to Kayak.
Click the orange “Find Flights” button, and the flight choices page will load with different flights and fares.
 At the left sidebar of the page, below the airport codes, click on the blue “Price alert” link.
 Do this by clicking the buttons labeled “Exact Dates” or “Lowest Price.”


If your travel dates are flexible, choosing “Lowest Price” will search dates around your desired departure and arrival dates, sometimes giving you a lower price. However, if you have to travel on certain dates, you should choose “Exact Dates.”
If you choose “Lowest Price,” the pop-up will display a drop-down menu with the month you had selected. You can change this month by clicking the drop-down menu and choosing the month you want to travel.
 This can either be weekly or daily.


The more often you receive alerts, the likelier you are to get a good deal. On the other hand, you might not want to have the daily email on your inbox if the price isn’t that important to you.
 Click the orange “Save” button. The pop-up should change to say “Alert Saved.”

, You will now receive email alerts, either daily or weekly, with prices for the flight you were looking for. You can have as many price alerts set up as you want!

