 This 3 to 4 sentence paragraph is your elevator pitch, your chance to summarize your experience, passion and success. A well written summary can distinguish your resume, if there is heavy competition for the job.


An example of an executive summary would be, "Results-driven non-profit communications manager with 9 years of experience writing press releases, planning conferences and leading summer educational programs. Passionate about helping low-income families to bridge educational gaps caused by lack of financial support. Expertise in improving team performance, obtaining funding and improving press coverage. Proven leader who can develop volunteer bases and foster enduring community support."

, Choose a common font, such as Times New Roman or Sans Serif, and don't use a size under 11-point font. Try to fit your resume on 1 page, or 2 if you cannot condense your experience and education into a 1-page resume.
 You can choose either a functional resume, that provides experience based on skills, or a chronological resume, that shows a chronological list of all your non-profit jobs.


Choose a functional resume if you have worked in and out of the non-profit sector. You may also choose this format if the job description asks for a lot of diverse skills, such as grant-writing, donor development, management, communications, public speaking and more. Separate the resume into sections for each skill and list specific experience and accomplishments you have gained, followed by the job titled and agency name.
Choose a chronological format if you have many years of experience in the non-profit sector. With an impressive list of your past jobs, you can detail the skills you have gained underneath each job title. Include the agency and dates of each job.
If you have just graduated from college and you want to break into the non-profit sector, you may want to choose a functional format. Non-profits often value both formal and non-formal experience, so include volunteering, event planning and any skills gained with an organization under the skill sections. With both formats you can list your education in a short section at the end.

