 Liberally pour baking soda, cornstarch, or flour onto your carpets and let them sit for 30 minutes to an hour. This method works best with area rugs that can be shaken outside. Or instead, clean up by sweeping up the excess powder with a stiff broom or carpet sweeper. It’s easier to clean these powders from a carpet with fine fibers, but long fibers will trap them along with dirt.You can use this method to dry clean your carpets, but you may need to use a vacuum to suck up the fine powders.
If you don’t want to vacuum because of the noise, wait until a better time. If you don’t have a vacuum, there still may be remnants left in your carpet since the fine powders may escape a broom or tape.
 Sweepers are relatively affordable tools that you simply run across your carpet to help pick up dirt. They do not require electricity and are much quieter than a vacuum, so you can clean anytime and anywhere. Run a sweeper across your carpets for quick crumb removal or dirty shoe trails.Carpet sweepers have brushes that may need to be replaced periodically when they become filthy or too run down.
Carpet sweepers cannot handle the dirt capacity of a whole house, so if you're cleaning each room you may need to clean out the bristles as you go.
Empty out the sweeper regularly so you don't spread dirt around your house instead of cleaning it.
 Get an old-fashioned broom with stiff bristles, preferably made from bristly broom corn. These brooms are self cleaning because dirt doesn’t stick to the natural bristles like it does to a synthetic broom. Sweep in the direction of a dustpan or a door that leads outside to help minimize the mess.Using a stiffer broom forces dirt out of your carpet but it does require some forceful sweeping which can double as a workout.
Broom corn bristles may break off while sweeping. Simply add them to the pile of dirt you’re going to throw out.
Using a broom works best for short fiber carpets or carpets with stiff bristles.
 Take your area rugs and removable carpets outside and hang them over a railing or fence with the dirty side facing up. Use a tennis racket, paddle, or a sturdy stick to beat the dirt and dust out. Stand to the side of the rug so that you don’t get any flyaway hair or dirt on you. It’s also easier to beat the rug from a side angle rather than straight on.If it’s a sunny day and there is no call for rain, use a garden hose to wash any extra dirt out of the rugs. Let them air dry outside.
Sunlight can fade the color in rug fibers, so be careful if you’re cleaning a delicate material.

