 Typically, your wages are garnished for one of two reasons. First, you may owe child support. It is now part of every child support order to include wage garnishment. If you are behind on child support, then additional income will be garnished.


Second, your wages may be garnished because someone won a lawsuit against you and got a court-ordered judgment. This judgment then allows the winning party to move to garnish your wages.
You need to understand why your wages were garnished because this information impacts your options for disputing the garnishment. You have fewer options for disputing the garnishment if your wages were garnished for child support or alimony.;
, It is very difficult to stop a garnishment. However, you can always dispute the amount garnished. Federal and state law determine the maximum a person can garnish.


Although garnishment law is complicated, the judgment creditor of a lawsuit can generally garnish up to 25% of your pay after taxes.More can be garnished for child support.
Up to 60% of your disposable earnings may be garnished for child support. This amount can be lowered to 50% if you are also supporting a spouse or another child (who is not the subject of the garnishment order). An additional five percent can be garnished if you are more than 12 weeks behind on child support payments., Some sources of income are exempt from garnishment. Common sources of exempt income include:Social Security benefits (unless garnished for child support, alimony, or government debts)
disability benefits
retirement benefits
alimony payments
child support payments

, Some states allow you to reduce the maximum amount garnished if you can prove “extreme economic hardship.” For example, Arizona provides for this option. In Arizona, someone suffering from economic hardship can have the amount garnished reduced to 15%.Similarly, many states provide a “head of household” exemption. Generally, you can claim this exemption if you provide at least 50% of the financial support for a child or another dependent. If you qualify, then a certain percentage of your wages will be exempt from garnishment.You can find your state law online. Search “your state” and “wage garnishment.” If you can’t find anything, then you should meet with a lawyer for a consultation.
 An experienced attorney can listen to you describe your situation and offer targeted advice for how to effectively dispute the garnishment. To find a lawyer, you should contact your state’s bar association, which runs a referral program.


You may be wary of the costs of legal services. However, you should realize that many states allow lawyers to offer “unbundled” legal services (also called “limited scope representation”). Under this arrangement, the lawyer does not take over the entire case. Instead, you can contract with the lawyer for discrete tasks, such as providing advice, attending a hearing, or looking over forms and court documents.You should ask any lawyer you call whether or not they offer unbundled legal services.
 After a judgment creditor files a garnishment action, you will be sent a copy of the Writ of Garnishment within a few business days. You should read it over. The Writ or another included document (like a summons) will tell you how to object to the garnishment. It will also tell you the deadline for objecting.Pay particular attention to the deadlines. If you do not meet the deadline, then you will forfeit any ability to dispute the garnishment.
 To dispute the garnishment, you need to fill out some forms. You should ask the court clerk for a copy of the forms.


You need to read your Writ of Garnishment to find the appropriate courthouse. You must file your exemptions in the same court that issued the garnishment order.Stop in and tell the clerk you want to dispute the garnishment. The clerk should provide you with the necessary paperwork.
 Be sure to write neatly or type the information into the form. Each court’s form will be different. However, they should generally ask for the following information:your name
the name of the judgment creditor who is garnishing your wages
the case number (look at the copy of the Writ of Garnishment sent to you)
the grounds for claiming an exemption

, Make multiple copies of all completed forms. Then take your completed forms to the court clerk. Ask to file., You probably need to provide the judgment creditor with notice that you have filed exemptions. Each court has different methods for doing this. Ask the clerk. In Arizona, for example, you send a copy of a Notice of Hearing form to the judgment creditor and to the “garnishee,” who is your employer.Each court has different methods of acceptable service. Depending on the court, you may mail the forms or have them delivered by a professional process server or someone 18 or older who is not a party to the case.
 You should gather any documents that support your claim of exemption. For example, if the income is exempt because it comes from Social Security or child support, then you should have information showing when the money was deposited into your account.


If you are claiming “extreme financial hardship,” then you will want information about your monthly expenses. Gather bills for your rent or mortgage, utilities, health care, child care, food, and heating.
 You don’t want to miss your hearing. Give yourself sufficient time to find parking and pass through the courthouse security. You should aim to arrive at the courtroom 15 minutes before your hearing starts.Before entering the courtroom, turn off all cell phones, pagers, and notebooks. Also make sure that you are not wearing a watch that makes a noise. The judge will find it distracting if anything beeps.
 Court is a conservative place, and judges will expect you to dress conservatively. Now is not the time for individual expression. Instead, you should dress “business casual”—dress pants and dress shirts or blouses with shoes and socks.


Avoid wearing shorts, flip flops, halter tops, see-through clothing, or ball caps. For more tips on what to wear to court, see Dress for a Court Hearing.
 The judge will probably ask you questions about why you are claiming the exemption. Answer all questions fully and honestly. Always address the judge as “Judge” or “Your Honor.”


You should also let the judge know of any documents that you have brought to support your position.
 You definitely need a lawyer if you plan to go through bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is extremely complicated and you have little room for error; a lawyer’s assistance is critical.Also, attorneys are more effective at getting you approved for bankruptcy.


In a study out of California, only 61% of people who file on their own successfully get debts discharged. By contrast, 95% of those represented by a lawyer succeed.To find a qualified bankruptcy attorney, you can use your state’s referral program (which is offered by the state’s bar association).
 When your lawyer files the bankruptcy petition, the court clerk will immediately notify the creditors listed in the petition. An “automatic stay” immediately goes into effect. This stay prohibits any creditor from trying to collect on a debt. However, it does not stay child support or alimony.The person garnishing your wages because of a court judgment is a creditor; accordingly, the garnishment will stop. You need to make sure that you give your attorney the name of this creditor.
The stay is in place until you emerge from bankruptcy. For this reason, the garnishment can start back up if you do not successfully discharge the underlying debt during the bankruptcy.
 The bankruptcy code limits how you can spend credit in the months before filing for bankruptcy. In particular, you are limited in the amount of “luxury” purchases or cash advances you can take from a credit card. A creditor can challenge your attempt to discharge these debts.For example, you cannot purchase more than $650 worth of luxury items within 90 days of your filing for bankruptcy. Luxury items are defined as items not reasonably necessary to support yourself or your family. Luxury items include a new car, new furniture, expensive makeup, and magazine subscriptions.
You also cannot take cash advances from one creditor within 70 days of filing for bankruptcy if the advances total more than $925.
 Your wages were probably garnished because you lost a lawsuit and the other party got a judgment against you. You may be able to have this judgment wiped out in bankruptcy.


Whether you can wipe out a court judgment will depend on the substance of the lawsuit that led to the court judgment against you. For example, judgments based on the following cannot be discharged:student loans
child support or spousal support
debts owed to governments (such as overdue taxes)
death or injury caused by a DUI or by a willful or malicious act (like battery)
fraud



