 The first step in successfully advertising your photography business online involves creating a functioning site. Your website should have samples of your past work, and display your contact information so that new clients can get call or email you. Concentrate on highlighting your talent by putting recent work at the forefront of the page.Photographers must have a good grasp of composition, and a poorly designed website can leave a negative impression.
Keep the site as simple and straightforward as possible. Ensure that the navigation is intuitive and remove unnecessary information or anything can confuse potential clients.;
, Business pages like Google, Yelp, and the Yellow Pages Online will help boost your exposure and help people connect to you. Make sure to tag and keyword entries on your website so that when people search for photography in their area they can find your page. Keep up with customer reviews and make sure to personally and directly respond to any criticism or bad reviews from former clients.


Other websites that would be worth listing your business include the White Pages, Angie's List, Yahoo, and Bing.Remember to provide your contact information and to add a link your website on your business pages.
 Social media allows you to connect to future clients or fans of your work. Keep an active Twitter, Tumblr, Instagram, Facebook, Pinterest, and Flickr page. Don't try to balance all the platforms if you don't have the time. Instead, choose a couple of platforms and make sure that you have quality posts.Do this by making your posts interesting and relevant. Post your work on social media to display your skills and talent.


You have to keep Twitter posts under 140 characters.Twitter is more action oriented and should key people into what your company is doing. Adding a photo will typically also get you more re-tweets and likes.
An example of a Twitter message would be, "We're working on a new project with Gina's Cheesesteaks on Broad Street. Come on over and check out the action."
Post on Instagram around 5:00 to 6:00 pm since this is when the majority of users are online. Make sure to post a robust photo.A sample of an Instagram post may be something like, "Check out these amazing photos that Chelsea was able to take during the Philadelphia Pride Parade. If you'd like to pick up a print of one of the photos, click here to go to our website."
Don't use a personal page for your business. Create one specifically for your photography business.
Each platform has ideal post length and volume of posts throughout the day.
For a platform like Facebook, you should only post once or twice per day.
For more active social media like Twitter, five or more posts per day are usually appropriate.You can also upload photography on your social media platforms to give people a taste of what you're working on, or to build up a following online.
Social media that's used specifically for photography include Pinterest, Instagram, and Flickr.
 Your online portfolio should be a larger catalog of high-quality digital images that you can forward to potential clients. Make sure to use utilize responsive design so that image sizes scale with different resolutions.


Keep your portfolio to 12 photos per page. If you add more photos than 12 photos, your portfolio may look cluttered.
Limit the amount the user has to scroll. Use thumbnails so that the person looking at your portfolio can easily access the photos they enjoy the most.Choose only your highest quality work. If a photograph is questionable because of any reason, it shouldn't be a photo you add to your portfolio.
Popular hosts for photography include Squarespace, Format, Zenfolio, and 500px., Since photography is sometimes subjective, people who hire a photographer will often do so based on things like their personality or the quality of your relationship. Add your client testimonials to your website so that future customers can see what your past clients had to say about you.


For intimate shoots like wedding photography, having a courteous and flexible photographer is a requirement for many couples.