 To repaint an old ceramic lamp (or other decorative ceramic fixture), you'll be taking four basic steps: sanding, priming, painting, and finishing. To paint a ceramic lamp, spraypaint is the most sensible choice. Many people recommend Krylon-brand spraypaint for its bold color and durability, but other brands are usable as well. In any case, purchase the following supplies for your project:


A face mask (surgical mask) and plastic safety goggles
Electrical tape
1800-grit or a similar ultra-fine grit sandpaper
A sanding block to mount the sandpaper
Paper towels and old newspaper
A general-purpose spray primer in a neutral color such as dark gray
Semi-gloss or glossy spraypaint in the color of your choice
Clear gloss spray sealer

, Unless you're painting a totally unfinished ceramic lamp, the first major step will be to sand its surfaces so that they'll take your primer more readily. To prevent dust from getting into your mouth and nose, wear a face mask before you sand.


Remove the lampshade. Remove any other parts of the lamp you can set aside and don't plan to paint. (If there's still a light bulb in the lamp, remove that, too.)
Sand it down. Attach your sandpaper to the sanding block, and sand the entire lamp using gentle, even pressure and smooth strokes.
Don't over-sand the lamp. It shouldn't be rough or irregular to the touch. The sanding step is only to give the primer a better surface to bind to.
 Once you've finished, wipe down the lamp with damp paper towels and/or a gentle cleaning agent. Be thorough to ensure you've cleaned all of the sanding dust off the lamp, as well as any other remaining impurities.
 Once the sanded lamp is clean and dry, it's time to apply primer. Move your project outside or to an open garage or workshop, if you haven't already. Put on safety goggles and a fresh face mask. You'll be working with spraypaint, which can get into your mucous membranes from the air and irritate them.


Prep your lamp. Set it on a bed of newspaper that's much wider than the base of the lamp, for easy cleanup. Use electrical tape to firmly seal off any part of the cord or screw base that might otherwise get paint on it, including under the base.
Apply the first coat of primer. Spray it on uniformly and steadily, all around the lamp. Once it's been applied, let it dry for at least 3 or 4 minutes. There's no need to wait more than 10 minutes at most before moving to the next step.
Apply the second coat of primer. Once the first coat is set, repeat the process to add a second coat of primer. This will help ensure a smooth, uniform base for your spraypaint, and should completely obscure any previous colors and patterns on the original lamp as well.
 Give the primer between 30 minutes and an hour to set somewhat, and then bust out the paint. You'll be applying multiple coats for a great-looking finish.


Apply the first coat of paint. Using even movements, apply a thin coat of spraypaint over the primed lamp. Chances are, the primer will still be affecting the color somewhat; this is ordinary. Don't over-spray your first coat. You'll get a much brighter and smoother finish by using multiple thin coats.
 Advice varies on how dry you should let the first coat get before it's okay to apply the next coat, but the average consensus seems to be between half an hour and 2 hours. This guide recommends waiting 1 hour between coats.


Spraypaint actually takes about a day to set completely, but there's no need to wait that long between coats.
 Repeat the pattern described above to apply at least 2 more coats of spraypaint. Be sure to keep each coat thin.
 Once the last coat of paint has dried enough to take another coat, switch to your sealant and spray it on. For a professional-looking finish, choose a clear, glossy finish such as Krylon No-Scent Glossy.


As with painting, once the first thin coat has dried, add a second coat to maximize the glossy look.
Once you're satisfied, protect the lamp from the elements and leave it to dry overnight. Don't touch the lamp during this time if you can help it.
 The next morning, remove the electrical tape from the lamp and bring it inside. Add a bulb and a shade to complete your lamp.


Don't feel bound to use the shade that originally came with the lamp. Look at department and thrift stores to find one that suits you.

