 Adrenal fatigue is a syndrome that occurs when the adrenal glands work below the necessary levels for your body to function properly.The syndrome is a term applied to a collection of nonspecific symptoms, including pain, fatigue, anxiety, sleep disturbances, and digestive problems.Beyond fatigue, pain, anxiety, sleep disorders and digestive problems, the symptoms of adrenal fatigue include: asthma, allergies, dizziness, dry skin, frequent urination, low blood pressure, low blood sugar, low sex drive, numbness in your fingers, poor circulation, and weight gain.The symptoms of adrenal fatigue are non-specific and can be from any number of other illnesses.
If you have any of these symptoms, it’s best to see a health care professional to get a diagnosis.;
, Adrenal fatigue is caused when the adrenal glands do not produce enough of the hormones your body needs to function properly. While it can present with the above-mentioned symptoms, many people will show no symptoms at all.


Adrenal fatigue is usually associated with intense or prolonged stress. But the syndrome can also appear as a result of acute or chronic infections, influenza, bronchitis or pneumonia.As the name suggests, the most prominent symptom of the syndrome is fatigue. You may not even notice that you have adrenal fatigue, but simply feel a general sense of being unwell or fatigue., While there is a wealth of information available on the internet about adrenal fatigue, it is a controversial diagnosis. Not recognized as an actual condition by medical doctors, most proponents of adrenal fatigue are holistic and alternative medicine practitioners.Medical doctors, including those at renowned institutions such as the Mayo Clinic, don’t recognize adrenal fatigue as an illness; however, they do support the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency or Addison’s Disease to denote inadequate production of one or more of the hormones essential to life that the adrenal glands produce.The symptoms of Addison’s Disease are similar to adrenal fatigue and include: fatigue, body aches, unexplained weight loss, low blood pressure, lightheadedness, loss of body hair, and skin discoloration (hyperpigmentation).Proponents of adrenal fatigue maintain that the syndrome is a mild form of adrenal insufficiency caused by chronic stress. They theorize that the adrenal glands are unable to handle constant stress and thus can't produce enough of the hormones an individual needs to feel well. According to their theory, blood tests cannot detect this minute change in adrenal function, but the body can.You may notice that many sites with information about adrenal fatigue will not give you complete information, but instead will prompt you to buy books and products.
 If you have the symptoms of adrenal dysfunction and are concerned that you may have the syndrome, get tested by a medical professional. You should also consider getting tested for Addison’s Disease and other illnesses, since the symptoms of adrenal function overlap with them.


Remember that a medical doctor may not recognize your concern about adrenal fatigue and may test you for Addison’s Disease or another illness.
Adrenal dysfunction can be tested by various methods. Your doctor or health care professional may prescribe blood tests to analyze levels of the following hormones secreted by your adrenal glands and thyroid: cortisol (which controls stress), ACTH, FT4, FT3, and total thyroxine.Two additional tests that you or a health professional may administer for adrenal fatigue are the iris contraction test and postural low blood pressure test.The iris contraction test measures how long the iris can contract in response to repeated exposure to dark light. Go into the dark bathroom and allow your pupils to adjust to the lack of light, then shine the light from a penlight or flashlight into your eye. You will notice the pupil contract (or get smaller); however, someone with adrenal fatigue’s irises will not be remain contracted for a prolonged period of time, and after about 30 seconds they will begin to dilate, despite shining the light on them.Postural low blood pressure measures how quickly blood pressure rises when a person stands up. Someone suffering from adrenal fatigue will see no change in their blood pressure or even a slight fall, which is also called orthostatic hypotension.To test this, lie down for five minutes and have someone measure your blood pressure. Then stand up and, after one to three minutes, have the person take another reading. Not the change, if any, in your blood pressure readings.
 Once you have a diagnosis for adrenal dysfunction, talk to your health professional about your treatment options and the recovery time. If you’ve diagnosed yourself, you may want to do some additional research on how to treat the syndrome.


The treatment options for adrenal fatigue range from changing diet and exercise, to reducing stress, and taking herbal or hormonal supplements.
Estimates for the recovery period from adrenal fatigue range from about six to about eighteen months. Some individuals may need less time, while others need more, depending of the severity of the syndrome.There are some adrenal fatigue treatment programs online including Dr. Wilson’s Adrenal Fatigue Supplement Program.
 Before you start any treatment program for adrenal fatigue, consult with your doctor. Talking to your doctor will help ensure that your treatment plan will not harm your health.
 Making some simple changes to your diet can optimize your health and help combat the symptoms of adrenal fatigue. From eating bone broth to avoiding caffeine, these suggestions will help you to recover faster.


Avoid foods to which you are sensitive or allergic. These foods prevent the body absorbing vital nutrients and cause inflammation that can spur a host of problems including sleep disorders.Eat a healthy breakfast to get your body off on the right food and help stabilize your blood sugar and keep your body from stressing because it doesn’t have enough sustenance to function.Good food choices for breakfast include steel cut oats with fruit, Greek yogurt, eggs, and whole wheat toast.
Eat less sugar to help control your cortisol levels. Cortisol regulates excess sugar so consuming less means that you’re less likely to overstimulate your adrenal glands. Avoid foods like cookies, cakes, and fruit juices.Avoid caffeine, which stimulates your adrenal glands to produce adrenaline and cortisol, which put your body into a state of stress.Try eating superfoods such as bone broth and seaweed, which are very high in nutrients and can reduce inflammation., Since many people with adrenal fatigue are in pain or are simply too tired to do vigorous exercise, adding a gentle exercise program to your treatment plan can help alleviate the symptoms of adrenal fatigue. Activities such as walking or swimming will also decrease stress, which in turn helps stabilize your cortisol levels.Some examples of good exercise options are walking, swimming, yoga, and tai chi.
If you are not suffering from severe adrenal fatigue, you can jog or run, or even lift light weights.An added benefit of exercise is that it will help you sleep better., One of the underlying causes of adrenal fatigue is stress and its related hormone of cortisol. Reducing the stress in your life through activities such as meditation and unplugging from electronics will help your body recover from adrenal fatigue.


Try meditation and pranayama, or deep breathing. These exercises help reduce stress and normalize our the levels of the hormones adrenaline and cortisol.These activities aid circulation and toxin elimination as well as increasing our energy levels through oxygen saturation.In today’s world, we are inundated with emails, text messages, and other forms of ambient knowledge. Unplugging from your electronic devices is another good way to help decrease your stress levels.
Exercise will also help decrease stress and cortisol.
 Although adrenal fatigue may cause a deficiency in hormones, it may also cause a deficiency in vital nutrients the body needs. Taking medications and supplements can help alleviate the symptoms of adrenal fatigue and put you on the path to recovery.


Know that any medications and supplements should be taken only after consulting with a health care professional so that you do not endanger your health.
 People with adrenal fatigue are often lacking in several vitamins and minerals. Consider taking a multivitamin or specific vitamins to help replenish the levels in your blood.You may want to take the following vitamin supplements if you do not want to take a multivitamin: Vitamins B5, B6, and B12.These specific B vitamins are important role to cell metabolism and will boost your energy level.Although there are studies on the benefits of the B vitamins with certain conditions, there is no evidence to support that taking the B vitamins will alleviate your adrenal fatigue.Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant that is directly involved in the production of cortisol in your adrenal glands as well as in the recovery of your adrenals. Vitamin C will also help boost your immunity.Although there are studies on the benefits of Vitamin C for the adrenal glands, there is no direct evidence that it will alleviate your adrenal fatigue.Magnesium will help maintain energy flow and fight symptoms like fatigue and depression. Start with 400mg because taking too much magnesium can cause digestive problems.One older study examines the relationship between adrenal insufficiency and magnesium.However, there is no direct evidence that taking the supplement will alleviate your adrenal fatigue., There are also several herbal supplement you can take that might help adrenal fatigue, including licorice root, Siberian ginseng, Rhodiola Rosea, and Maca root.Remember the herbal supplements are unregulated by the Federal Drug Administration, so their claims are often not proven with research.
Licorice root is used to stimulate hormone production, maintain energy levels and increase endurance by helping your cortisol to circulate in your system for a longer period of time. Licorice root can elevate blood pressure, so avoid it if you have high blood pressure.Although there are studies on the medical uses of licorice root, there is no direct evidence that it will alleviate your adrenal fatigue.Siberian ginseng is used to improve stamina and mental awareness, and boost energy levels. Siberian ginseng can elevate blood pressure, so avoid it if you have high blood pressure.Although there are a few studies on the medical uses of Siberian ginseng, including for stamina and mental awareness, there is no direct evidence that it will alleviate your adrenal fatigue. In addition, the results of these studies was often contradictory.Rhodiola rosea can help with muscle tension, poor circulation, depression, and fatigue by increasing circulation and cortisol production.Although there are studies on the medical uses of Rhodiola for depression, stress, and fatigue, there is no direct evidence that it will alleviate adrenal fatigue.Maca root can help cortisol blood sugar regulation as well as aiding your body to get the most out of its low levels of hormones.There isn’t enough research or information to know how it might work, or if it will alleviate adrenal fatigue., Hormone replacement is another option to help treat adrenal fatigue. You’ll need a prescription from your health care professional for any hormones you take, including cortisol, DHEA, pregnenolone, testosterone, progesterone, estrogen, and adrenal extract.You’ll have to consult with your doctor if you are considering hormone replacement because this type of therapy requires prescription medication.
Your doctor will likely prescribe a blood test to establish your baseline hormone levels in order to best figure out which hormone replacements you should take.Although hormone replacement may help with adrenal fatigue, there is almost no research on it as a therapy for the syndrome. It is thus important that if you choose this method, that you do it only under a doctor’s supervision.Cortisol has been long used to treat for Addison’s Disease, or adrenal insufficiency.But cortisol can have significant side effects including obesity, muscle weakness, diabetes, and thin skin, so use with care.Because of these side effects, most doctors are reluctant to prescribe corticosteroids for a long period of time.
Taking DHEA can reinvigorate sex drive and some of the other symptoms of well-being that adrenal fatigue disrupts. If you are taking DHEA, get levels of the hormone tested regularly so that you’re not getting too much.Pregnenolone is directly involved with sex and stress hormones and taking it may help reduce the symptoms of adrenal fatigue.Testosterone can help improve symptoms of adrenal fatigue related to general well-being, libido, endurance, and mood. It may also improve overall quality of life.Progesterone may help with lower energy levels, irritability and depression, as well as weight gain.Adrenal glandular extracts may help with fatigue and stress. If you decide to take this hormone replacement, make sure that it comes from a quality, organic source.