 The first step to improving your grades in any class is identifying where you're having trouble. That way, you can focus on your trouble spots and study accordingly.Take a look at your tests and see what kinds of questions you get wrong. You might find that you keep getting the same questions wrong. That will show you the exact area you should focus your studies on.
You can also ask your teacher if there is an area you're struggling with.;
, It is a bad habit to not participate in class. Participating in class discussion will help you understand the material better. It will also earn you a higher grade if your teacher counts participation as part of your final grade (which many do). If you don't understand something, you should always ask the teacher in class. This way, you can make sure you understand all the material before taking a test. This is a good habit to help improve your grades.If you're worried about looking silly for asking a question, put that out of your mind. Chances are, there are other students who are also confused, but are too afraid to ask the question. By asking it yourself, you're really doing everyone a favor.
If you're shy and don't want to speak in class, you can also approach your teacher after class to get anything clarified.
 Learning how to take notes properly is an indispensable skill if you want to be a good student. Good notes will help organize material into simple and readable points that will help you study. Working on taking good notes will help not only your English grade, but your overall grades.Read Take Notes for instructions and tips on taking good notes.
 Cramming the night before a test is a bad habit. Not only will you not absorb the information effectively, but the time crunch could lead to unnecessary anxiety over the exam, which could hurt your memory. It is good to start studying as soon as the test is scheduled, even if it's over a week in advance. By doing a little every day, you'll absorb the information and ensure you can remember the material for the test.Check out Study for an English Exam and Study English Literature for more advice on how to study English.
 Sometimes, smart students who know the material freeze up on tests and do poorly. If you suffer from this sort of anxiety before tests, getting control of it will help improve your grades. Read Deal With Exam Anxiety for tips and techniques to help cut down on your anxiety.


If you're constantly anxious, consider talking to someone you trust, such as a friend, teacher, or counselor.
 A common problem for students is learning how to properly punctuate their writing. Incorrect punctuation hurts your writing and makes it look sloppy. By learning a few common punctuation marks, your grammar and writing will improve a lot.The comma is the most commonly used -- and most commonly misused -- punctuation mark. This is because there are numerous situations where a comma is appropriate. Click here for a full list of the proper times to use a comma.
Remember to avoid the comma splice. This mistake ties two independent clauses together. For example, "John loves to travel, he goes to France every year," is incorrect. These two clauses should either be separate sentences, or be separated by a semicolon.British English does not usually disapprove of the comma splice, but American English does.
A semicolon is used in two situations. One is separating two independent clauses, as seen earlier. The other is separating items in a long list that contains commas as well. For example: "For this meeting, I am inviting John, University of Michigan; Mike, NYU; Michelle, Columbia; and Susan, Yale."
The colon is used to introduce a list, an idea, or quoted material. "You have two choices: run or hide" is a proper usage of the colon. Remember when separating clauses with a colon that the first clause must be able to stand on its own, or a colon is inappropriate.
 There are a handful of words in English that sound the same, but are spelled differently and have different meanings. These are called homonyms. Learn the following words that are often confused and misused to improve your writing dramatically.

There, their, and they're: there is used when talking about a place ("over there"). Their shows possession of something ("this is their house"). They're is a contraction of "they are ("they're going to school").


It's is a contraction of "it is" ("It's 34 degrees outside!"). Its is a possessive pronoun form of "it ("I don't understand its meaning.") To keep this straight, remember that "his" and "hers" (other possessive pronouns) don't have apostrophes either.

Two, to, and too. Two is the number 2. To indicates moving towards something, and also indicates an infinitive (like to be or to go). Too goes along with adjectives and adverbs ("He is speaking too quickly for me to hear") or can mean "also" or "as well" ("I want to go, too").

Who's is a contraction of "who is" ("Who's going with us?"). Whose shows possession ("Whose car is that?").

Your indicates possession (like "your turn" or "your book"). You're is a contraction of "you are" ("You're going to love this.")

, A very common mistake in writing is verb/noun disagreements. Remember that plural nouns need to be paired with plural verbs.For example, "They is the best singers in the choir," is incorrect. "They are the best singers in the choir" is correct.
Use care when there's a phrase between the subject and verb, as in the following sentence: "The zombie, as well as his fellow walkers, was hungry." In this case, the zombie is a singular noun, meaning the verb needs to be singular too.In this sentence, "One of the zombies is over there," even though the word "zombies" is plural, it's actually One of that's the subject, so the verb is singular.
 The antecedent is the noun that a pronoun refers to. For example, in the sentence "Joan is a great teacher, because she always answers questions," Joan is the antecedent, and "she" is the pronoun.Common issues of agreement happen when you use "they/them/their" as a singular pronoun.
 Another common mistake is changing around verb tenses within a paragraph, which makes writing confusing and messy. Whichever tense you start a paragraph with should stay consistent throughout the paragraph., Many English words have roots in Latin or Greek. If you learn these roots, then you can figure out what a word means even if you've never seen it before.Here are some of the most common roots and what they mean."A"- without or not. For example: asexual, amoral.
"Ante"- before. For example: antecedent, anterior.
"Bi"- two. For example: biped, bipartisan, bisexual.
"Bene"- good or favorable. For example: benefit, benefactor.
"Cide"- kill. For example: homicide, genocide, suicide.
"Macro"- large. For example: macroeconomics, macroscopic.
"Micro"- small. For example: microscope, microorganism.
"Trans"- across. For example: transport, transnational.
 You could pick a word on Monday morning, learn the definition, and try to use it in regular speech throughout the week. By the end of the week, you'll have the word memorized and you'll be able to use it in essays and sot it on tests., By reading, you'll be exposed a a lot of new words. Keep track of all of them by keeping a small notebook and a dictionary handy when you read. When you come across a word you don't recognize, look it up and write it down. Then review it every day until you know it by heart., There are tons of apps for smartphones that are designed to improve vocabulary. Take a look at the app store and search for some. Try them out to improve your vocabulary before your next test.
 While it may seem obvious, many students try to read while watching TV or listening to loud music. This dramatically decreases your reading comprehension. You might find that even though you read the assignments you were supposed to, you keep doing poorly on tests because you can't remember any of the information. By simply reading in a better environment, you could improve your English grade.Choose a quiet area where there are no distractions. Even potential distractions should be avoided- don't sit near a TV and mute or turn off your phone if you have to.
If your house is loud and you can't concentrate, try going to a local library or park for some solitude.
 It's likely that while you're reading, you'll come across some words you don't know. Instead of ignoring them and moving on, look them up. This will not only help you better understand the text, but will improve your vocabulary as well. Both of these will help improve your English grade.It might also help to keep a small notebook of the words you look up. That way, you can review them periodically and make sure you know them by heart.
 You've probably experienced the feeling when you've read an entire chapter of a book and realize you have no idea what it was about. To avoid this, you should periodically stop to summarize what you've read. This will focus your thoughts and help you ensure you know what's going on.This doesn't have to be an essay. Just take a minute to tell yourself what you just read, preferably in just one sentence.
There isn't a concrete rule on how often you'll have to summarize. For easy material, you might be able to do it only after every chapter. For complicated material, you may have to stop at the end of every page to summarize.
 English classes often have you read an entire book and then give you a test on it. It's unrealistic to expect that you'll read a whole book and remember all the details off the top of your head. Taking notes while reading will keep you focused on the text, and help you remember important details to study when the test is coming up.If you own the book, underline and highlight important passages. This will prevent you from breaking your momentum to write notes in a separate place. If you don't own the book, you can use post it notes to mark pages and make notes.
 Reading is a skill that needs to be fostered. If you never read, then reading for class will be a difficult task. Reading regularly will improve your speed, memory, and comprehension. This will make reading for school much easier because assignments will go faster, and you'll retain more information without having to read passages several times.Find things you enjoy reading. Chances are there's plenty of books out there on topics you like. If you enjoy sports, try reading books about your favorite teams or players. Anything will help improve your skills.
Also read something you don't enjoy once in a while. It's inevitable that you'll be assigned readings that you have no interest in, but you still have to do them. Reading things you don't find interesting will help train you for this, and you'll find it more manageable to read things for school.

