 Although you most likely know how to use and apply 5th grade level content, you will need to become an expert in order to teach it. Furthermore, you must be aware of the learning standards and objectives for your state, district, and school. Most states follow the Common Core curriculum, which outlines subject matter and skill sets for math and English language arts. You will also probably teach science and social studies.


Teach algebraic thinking, fractions, measurement and data, and geometry in math. Teach inferencing, themes, compare and contrast, story structures and point of view in English Language Arts. Teach social studies and science using the Common Core standards for reading under English language arts.;
, All people learn differently. Most people can describe themselves as either visual, auditory, reading/writing, or kinesthetic learners. Remember to consider all learning styles when you plan your lessons.Use pictures, graphic organizers, and maps for visual learners.
Incorporate class discussions and the use of mnemonics for auditory learners.
Assign and written assignments and readings for readers or writers.
Include physical and hands on activities for kinesthetic learners.
 You must constantly ask yourself if students are absorbing what you are teaching them. Assessments can be formal or informal and should always be aligned to your teaching goals.Informally assess students with comprehension questions, classwork, homework, and group discussions. These assessments allow the teacher to gauge student progress. They also help teachers decide if a topic needs to be reviewed or if changes need to be made to future lessons.
Formally assess students using tests, quizzes, projects, or presentations. These types of assessments usually make up a larger portion of student grades, but they don’t have to. Remember that formal assessments should reflect what has been taught over the course of a unit.
 Try to remember when you were a kid; even better, remember when you were a fifth grader. Learning math or history out of a textbook probably wasn't memorable to you. Incorporate fun activities into learning. Make connections to real life with campaigns or debates.
Offer incentives for exemplary participation in class activities.
Use songs or poems to transition between topics.

