 Teaching someone requires you to rephrase and more deeply process information as you put it into your own words, which further commits it to your memory and takes studying to the next level!So, pick a lecture and briefly review your notes from that lecture. Present the lecture to your study partner and have him or her ask you questions directed at elaborating on points made in your presentation. Take turns doing this for each lecture throughout the term.


An additional benefit to this approach is that you will likely identify areas that you initially did not deem particularly important to study but later recognized were when your study partner presented them. It also helps fill in holes in your notes when your study partner presents something you don't have recorded.
You also could spend your time together (or apart) creating practice tests for each other.
 This is another opportunity not only to commit yourself to studying your notes but also to a) fill in gaps in your notes, b) view the material in your notes from other perspectives and c) gain insight into how others approach studying.Once you have formed your study group, designate a group leader to help keep the group on track and to send out email reminders. Decide when you will meet, for how long and how often. During your meetings, review your notes and other materials with your group members so you can share information and resolve any confusing issues. You also might take turns presenting material and creating practice test questions. Some schools have Web-based learning management systems that allow students to sign up for study groups within courses. If this is not an option, talk with your teacher about how to facilitate forming one. If you know others in the class, ask them if they would like to join.
A study group should have 3-4 committed members. Too many voices can create chaos and little work accomplished.
Your group should meet once per week. This will ensure that you do not try to cram in too much material in each meeting., Elaborative interrogation is a technique that a) encourages learning and remembering through asking the question “Why?” when reading material and that b) research has shown to be a more effective study method than those that students have employed religiously for decades, such as using mnemonic devices and highlighting.When reviewing your notes, periodically stop, ask yourself a “why” question and answer it. The questions can be general or specific.


General: “Why does this make sense?” “Why is this unexpected given what I already know about this topic?”
Specific: “Why do things only stay in our short-term memory for about 18 seconds without rehearsal or review?” “Why does cramming for tests so often result in lower grades?”
The technique is so effective because it forces you to draw upon prior knowledge, to think critically about the information, to make connections between the two and to respond in your own words. Simply put, these processes help to hardwire the information into your brain.

