 Don’t try to change yourself to make someone love you.The person will see through it and be mad at you for lying to her. Also, trying to impress her will stress you and you won’t feel good about yourself knowing that you are lying to her. You will be much happier knowing that you are being true to yourself and giving her the chance to love the real you.


If you don’t normally like football, then don’t sit through a game just because your love interest mentions that she likes it.
Don’t compromise your values or beliefs to get her to love you. Doing the things that you know and feel are right will make you feel good about yourself.
Know that if someone loves you, she would never force you to do anything you don’t want to do.
 If your love interest doesn't know how you feel, then let him know. For all you know he could love you also, but just be afraid to tell you or not know how to show it. You’ll feel happier once you let him know. At least then you won’t be wondering how he feels and you can decide what you need to do about the situation.If your love is a friend, you might try saying, “I really value our friendship and don’t want to lose it, but I also want you to know that I love you.”
If you still love your ex, then try saying, “Even though we had problems, I still love you.”

, A healthy love interest is someone who shares your values, is someone you can trust and rely upon, and is someone who is also interested in you. If your love interest doesn't know you at all, has never spoken to you or only once briefly, doesn't know your family, life details, middle name, etc., then this may be an unhealthy relationship bordering on obsession. Being in a one-sided love can sometimes cross into harassment, stalking, or obsession if you let it. You certainly won’t be happy if your love interest feels like you are bothering her.She can become afraid or mad at you, and you could also get into serious legal trouble.


If you don't have a relationship with this person — this is someone you admire from afar and have never (or barely) interacted with her — then you are experiencing an infatuation, and not love.
Do you really know this person, or do you just know about her? Have you talked with her, gotten to know what she likes, and really seen her personality? Or do you love your perception of her? You can't truly be in love with someone you don't actually know.
If she asks you to leave her alone, then respect her wishes and leave her alone.
Don’t contact her repeatedly. Stick to your normal level of contact.
Don’t follow her around or give her unwanted gifts.
Don’t troll her social media pages.

