 Immediate relatives have special priority and do not have to wait in line for a visa. The following people will qualify as immediate relatives:spouse of a U.S. citizen.
unmarried children of a U.S. citizen if under 21
parents of U.S. citizens, if the citizen is over age 21;
, Instead, they must get in line and wait for a visa. The following people qualify as preference relatives:unmarried children of a U.S. citizen who are 21 or older
married children of a U.S. citizen, regardless of age
siblings of U.S. citizens, if the U.S. citizen is at least 21

, U.S. law allows current green card holders to sponsor certain family members. However, Congress has limited the number of people who can immigrate. For this reason, there is a waiting line. Nevertheless, a green card holder can sponsor the following relatives:spouse of the green card holder
unmarried children (of any age)

, If you are sponsoring family members, then you must show the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services department (USCIS) that you can financially support them. In most situations, this means you must complete Form I-864, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the Act, and provide supporting documentation.You can access the form at https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-864.pdf. This is an electronic form which captures the information you submit.
Be sure to download and read the instructions before attempting to complete the form. The instructions will tell you what personal and financial information you must gather and submit.
 If you have any questions during the application process, you can call the USCIS National Customer Service Center at 1-800-375-5283., The U.S. citizen who wants his or her immediate family to get a green card must file Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative. You can download the form and the instructions here: https://www.uscis.gov/i-130.


Be sure to read the instructions. These instructions contain important information about the documents you need to include in your application, as well as information about where to mail the completed form.
 The family member hoping to get the green card must complete Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. You can get this form by downloading the form and instructions here: https://www.uscis.gov/i-485.


The relative should fill out Form I-485 only if he or she is in the United States legally. If they are outside the United States, then they should use consular processing.
 You should complete the form by typing or printing legibly using black ink.The form will ask for the following information:personal information about you and your relative (name, address, date and place of birth, etc.)
any spouse or children of your relative
personal information about your relative’s spouse or children

, You can fill out this form by typing in the information or printing neatly in black ink. The form will ask for various personal information, including the following:your name, address, date of birth, country of birth, etc.
the date you last arrived in the United States, including your arrival-departure record number
your Social Security Number, if applicable
your current USCIS status
the application type
your current occupation
your spouse and children, including their dates of birth
the names of all organizations you have been a member of, including the dates of membership
information about your criminal history
whether you need disability accommodations

, Each form will request certain supporting documents. You should gather these and submit them with your application. If you do not, then the application cannot be processed, and USCIS will contact you to provide the missing information.


If you fill out Form I-130, you need to prove that you are a U.S. citizen. You can use several different documents, e.g., a copy of your birth certificate, naturalization certificate, or unexpired U.S. passport.You must also show that you are related to the applicant. See the instructions for specific documents needed.
 You can file concurrently by submitting both petitions (I-130 and I-485) in the same envelope. Include all filing fees and supporting documentation at the same time.Concurrent filing can speed up the process.


If you do not file concurrently, then the non-citizen relative must wait until the citizen relative files his or her Form I-130. The relative will then receive Form I-797, Notice of Action. This form will state that the Form I-130 petition is either pending or has been approved. At that point, the relative can file his or her Form I-485.
 You must pay a $420 filing fee to file Form I-130.The fees to file Form I-485 will depend on your age. You can see a fee schedule at https://www.uscis.gov/i-485.


You can pay fees with a check or money order. Make them out to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.”Do not abbreviate the Department’s name to “USDHS” or “DHS.” Instead, spell the name out.
 There is no one address to send your documents to. Instead, where you send your documents will depend on where you live. You can find your address by visiting this page: https://www.uscis.gov/i-130-addresses.


Be sure to mail your documents certified mail, return receipt requested. The receipt will serve as proof that USCIS received your petition.
Always keep a copy of the completed application for your own records.
 Once you submit an application, you will receive notice to have fingerprints taken. You will also have your picture and signature taken.This information is taken to perform security checks.
It is also used to create the green card, if one is eventually granted.
 Sometimes applicants must go to a USCIS office to be interviewed. You will be given the date, time, and location. At the interview, you might be asked questions about your application, which you must answer under oath. Be sure to bring the following:your passport and travel documents
originals of other documents
Form I-94, even if it has expired

, Once you have submitted a complete application and all background checks have been completed, USCIS will make a decision. Regardless of the decision, you will be notified in writing.You might be able to appeal. The letter USCIS sends you will outline your appeal rights.You might also be able to file a motion to reopen or reconsider your case.
Both appeals and motions to reopen/reconsider are started by filing Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion.
 If you are in the U.S. illegally, then you generally cannot apply for a green card. In fact, by being in the country without legal permission you are breaking the law and could face deportation.


Accordingly, you should find an immigration lawyer immediately. You can get a referral for an immigration attorney by contacting your local or state bar association. You may also search the Internet for “immigration lawyer” and “your state.”
Your lawyer will discuss your options. For example, you could apply for asylum. Asylum is granted to those who have been persecuted or those who fear persecution in their home country. The persecution must be based on your religion, race, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a social group.You could also turn yourself into the federal immigration authorities and wait to be deported. During deportation proceedings, you would then try to cancel the removal. This is an option if you have been in the country for at least 10 years. You also will need to show the judge your “good moral character” (no criminal sanctions) and that your removal would cause hardship to your family.Another option is that you could marry a U.S. citizen. The marriage must be real, that is, not for the purpose of getting a green card. Green cards are not always available for marriages. The availability depends on whether you entered the country legally or illegally.Your lawyer can explain how the law applies.
There may be other options based on your unique situation.
 The family member who is a U.S. citizen must obtain and complete Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative. This person must also submit the form and pay the appropriate fee.


The form and accompanying instructions are available at: https://www.uscis.gov/i-130.
 The non-citizen must complete and submit Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. The form and its instructions can be found at: https://www.uscis.gov/i-485.


You can only file Form I-485 if you are in the United States legally. If you are outside the United States, then you will use “consular processing.”

, Your priority date is the date when a visa becomes available and the non-citizen can apply. The U.S. citizen will submit Form I-130 first. After the petition is filed, the non-citizen relative will receive Form I-797, Notice of Action. The priority date will be on this form.


You cannot file your Form I-485 until your priority date as identified on Form I-797.
 The process for submitting and receiving approvals is the same as for sponsoring immediate family members:


Pay your fees. Each petition must be accompanied by the full fee amount. The fee for Form I-130 is $420. The fee for filing Form I-485 will depend on the age of the applicant.
Mail your petition. Read the instructions to find out where to mail your petition and supporting documents.
Give fingerprints. Each applicant must give fingerprints as part of a security background check.
Attend an interview, if required. Not everyone must attend an interview. However, if USCIS wants to ask you questions about your application, you will receive notice of the date, time, and location of an interview.
Wait to receive your green card, if approved.
 You can’t apply for a green card if you are in the U.S. without legal permission. In fact, if you are stopped by the police, you could be taken into custody and deported.


To understand your legal options, you need to find an immigration lawyer immediately. To find one, you can contact your local or state bar association, which should run a referral program. You can also search the Internet.
Schedule a consultation with your attorney to discuss options. For example, you might be able to apply for asylum. You can qualify if you have been persecuted in your home country or if you fear persecution if you return. The persecution must be based on your religion, race, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a social group.You might also turn yourself in and wait to be deported. During deportation proceedings, you can then try to cancel the removal. In order to qualify for this option, you must have been in the country for at least 10 years. You also must have good moral character (no crimes) and be able to show that your removal would cause hardship to your family.You could also marry a U.S. citizen. The marriage must be real, that is, not for the purpose of getting a green card. Green cards are not always available for marriages. The availability depends on whether you entered the country legally or illegally.Your lawyer can explain how the law applies.
There may be other options based on your unique situation.
 The family member who has a current green card must obtain and complete Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative. This person must also submit the form and pay the appropriate fee.


The form and accompanying instructions are available at: https://www.uscis.gov/i-130.
 The family member who wants a green card must complete this form and submit it when notified that a visa is available. The form and its instructions can be found at: https://www.uscis.gov/i-485.


You can only apply using Form I-485 if you are in the United States legally. If you are not in the U.S., then you will apply using “consular processing.”

, The current green card holder will submit Form I-130. After the petition is filed, the relative will receive Form I-797, Notice of Action. The priority date will be on this form.


You cannot file your Form I-485 until your priority date. Your priority date will tell you when a visa is available for you. You can only apply when a visa becomes available.
 The process for receiving approval is the same as for sponsoring immediate family members:


Pay your fees. Each petition must be accompanied by the full fee amount. The fee for Form I-130 is $420. The fee for filing Form I-485 will depend on the age of the applicant.
Mail your petition. Read the instructions to find out where to mail your petition and supporting documents.
Give fingerprints. Each applicant must give fingerprints as part of a security background check.
Attend an interview, if required. Not everyone must attend an interview. However, if USCIS wants to ask you questions about your application, you will receive notice of the date, time, and location of an interview.
Wait to receive your green card, if approved.
 If you are in the U.S. illegally, then you generally cannot apply for a green card. In fact, by being in the country without legal permission you are breaking the law and could face deportation.


Accordingly, you should find an immigration lawyer immediately. You can get a referral for an immigration attorney by contacting your local or state bar association. You may also search the Internet for “immigration lawyer” and “your state.”
Your lawyer will discuss your options. For example, you could apply for asylum. Asylum is granted to those who have been persecuted or those who fear persecution in their home country. The persecution must be based on your religion, race, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a social group.You could also turn yourself into the federal immigration authorities and wait to be deported. During deportation proceedings, you would then try to cancel the removal. This is an option if you have been in the country for at least 10 years. You also will need to show the judge your “good moral character” (no criminal sanctions) and that your removal would cause hardship to your family.Another option is that you could marry a U.S. citizen. The marriage must be real, that is, not for the purpose of getting a green card. Green cards are not always available for marriages. The availability depends on whether you entered the country legally or illegally.Your lawyer can explain how the law applies.
There may be other options based on your unique situation.
 If you are seeking a green card but live outside the United States, then you will apply through “consular processing.” With consular processing, you do not fill out paperwork on your own. Instead, you go to a U.S. consulate and work with the consulate staff to get a visa. Your U.S. relative starts this process by submitting his or her Form I-130 petition.Consular processing is available for all applications: immediate relatives, preference relatives, and relatives of current green card holders.
 Once the I-130 petition is approved, USCIS sends the petition to the Department of State’s National Visa Center (NVC). It stays there until an immigrant visa number becomes available.As soon as the number is available, you will be notified. You will also be told when you must submit your processing fees and supporting documentation. You should be provided a list of documents to bring to an interview.
 You must also have an interview at the US consulate. At the interview, the consular office will help complete your application and determine whether you are eligible for a visa.Once you are approved, you will be given a “visa packet.” You must take this with you and give it to the Customs officer at the port of entry. Do not open the visa packet.
 You will need to pay your USCIS Immigrant Fee at the right time. You should wait until after you receive your immigrant visa packet but before you leave for the United States.Paying before you leave for the U.S. will help speed up the process and ensure that you don’t have to wait too long to get your green card.
You can pay your Immigrant Fee online through the USCIS Electronic Immigration System (USCIS ELIS).
 At the port of entry, you will hand over your visa packet. The Border Patrol officer will open the packet and inspect you. If they find that you are admissible, then they will admit you as a permanent resident of the United States.Your green card will then be mailed to you within 45 days of your arrival.
If you don’t receive the green card, then call 1-800-375-5283.