 Once you see the lights behind you, turn on your turn signal. That shows that you see and acknowledge there is a cop behind you and that you are looking for a place to pull over., Pull over at the first place you see, and make sure you are safely off the road. Of course, you want to do it safely, but don't delay, as that sends a bad message to the officer.Try to give the officer enough space on the driver's side so that she can walk up on that side without being in traffic., That is, don't make her think the situation is more dangerous than it is. Every time cop pulls a person over, she is thinking about the potential risks.Don't make any sudden movements, and don't look like you're reaching below for anything.
 That is, roll your window down. Shut off your car, and wait for the cop to approach. Don't pull out anything, like your driver's license, until you are asked to do so.If it's dark, turn on the inside light so the officer can see what's going on inside the car., The cop wants to make sure you aren't reaching for a weapon of some kind. Therefore, make sure she can see your hands at all times. A good place to keep your hands is on top of the steering wheel., That escalates the situation. The cop may think you are trying to injure her in some way. Wait patiently inside the car., If you get riled up, you're likely to say something you regret. If you're yelling or cussing at the officer, you're not likely to get a warning. When you get pulled over, take a minute to take a deep breath and calm yourself down. It's not the end of the world., Politeness goes a long way, even with traffic stops. Smile and be courteous to the officer throughout the whole interaction.For instance, just saying "Hi, how are you doing today?" with a smile can be helpful. What you don't want to do is be hostile. You don't want to say "Why the heck did you stop me?" especially without any other kind of greeting.
 The officer is going to ask for your license and registration. It's also possible the officer may ask you to step out of the car. Politely follow the given directions., If the officer asks if you know why you were pulled over, it's almost always best to say that you don't know. The reason for this piece of advice is that the officer may be pulling you over for something completely different than you think, so you don't want to admit to something else.Also, if you try to fight the ticket later, saying you were guilty may work against you, since the officer will probably make a note of it., If you have a good reason for breaking the law, you can offer that explanation. It may not always help your case, but it might persuade some officers. For instance, a good excuse for speeding might be that you're late picking your child from school because your spouse had to cancel., The simplest way to get a warning is to politely ask the officer if you can have a warning. Apologize for what you did, but note that you normally do try to follow the law to the letter.Time the moment correctly. If you wait until the officer has already started writing, you may have missed your moment. Try to ask before she starts writing because she may have already started writing a ticket instead of a warning., The officer will likely take your information back to her cruiser. While she's doing that, make sure you are still not making any sudden movements. Keep your hands on the wheel and wait patiently. If you look like you are reaching for something, you will make the officer nervous., Whatever the officer decides, accept it graciously. Thank the officer either way, as she is just doing her job. If you get upset, you could find yourself under arrest, especially if you get out of control., If you truly feel you were wronged, you can always appeal the ticket later. Usually, information on how to appeal the decision is listed on the back of the ticket.