 This distillation process separates the water from the alcohol by dehydration. Dehydrated isopropyl can be used as fuel, as a removal for fleas and ticks from pets, as an antiseptic for pets or humans, or as a deicer for windshields. Dehydrated isopropyl is an essential part of creating biodiesel fuel.
This process is known as extractive distillation.
 To separate water from isopropyl alcohol, you'll need the original isopropyl alcohol mix (50% to 70% isopropyl alcohol mix) and a container to hold this liquid when finished, a wide-mouth glass jar for mixing (1/2 gallon), 1 pound of non-iodized table salt, and a baster with reduced-size nozzle.


Make sure all your materials are clean, including the jars and your baster.
Isopropyl alcohol is commonly sold over-the-counter in pharmacies in 16-oz containers (or, 1 pint). You'll need 2 pints for a 1/2 gallon sized mixing jar.
 Make sure you're not using iodized salt or it will contaminate the distillation process. This should be roughly the contents of one standard container of table salt.Use any brand of salt you choose, as long as it's not iodized.
You may use any amount of alcohol and salt you like, as long as it follows the ratio of four parts liquid to one part salt.
 Your mixing jar should be about 3/4 full with the isopropyl alcohol and salt mixture. If it's any fuller than that, it may not have room for the expansion that will occur when salt mixes with alcohol.Make sure your lid is well fastened before shaking.
Watch to make sure salt is well combined with liquid before ceasing to shake.
 It will take 15-30 minutes for the salt to settle to the bottom of the jar. The liquid rising to the top will be higher in alcohol. This is the dehydrated isopropyl alcohol.Don't allow the two layers to remix.
When you open the jar, do so very carefully to prevent excess shaking. Excess shaking will disturb the salty contents at the bottom of the jar and require you to repeat the distillation process.
 Have your receiving container nearby, already labeled as "distilled isopropyl alcohol."The baster can be used very gently to remove one small bit at a time from the mixing container.
Be careful not to shake, pour or tilt the mixing jar as you remove the distilled alcohol.

