 Tap the App Store icon on your iPhone to launch it.;
, Type “Chikka” on the search bar and tap on the “Search” button.
 Once you find the app, download it by tapping the “Install” button beside the app.


Chikka is free to download.
 Locate the app’s icon on your iPhone, and tap on it to launch it.


Its icon has an orange background with a mobile phone and a computer mouse on it.
 Key in your mobile number, and tap the orange “Next” button. The app will send an activation code to your mobile number, which should be the same number you use for your iPhone.


Chikka needs to verify your account to link it with your phone.
 Once you receive it, key in the activation code Chikka sent you, and then tap on the orange “Sign In” button to proceed.


Once verified, you will be automatically logged in.
 On the welcome screen, tap on the orange “Start texting now” button to continue. You will be brought to the main screen.
 At the bottom of the screen is a panel menu. Tap on the Profile menu tab (it’s the one with the ID icon).
 If you want to add, change, or remove your existing profile picture, tap on the pencil icon in the photo box, and choose the appropriate option.


You can use your iPhone’s camera to take a new picture to put up, or choose a photo from your gallery to update your profile picture.
 Right under the photo box is your username. To edit it, tap on the pencil icon beside it, type in your new username, and tap on the “Save” button.


Chikka doesn’t check for duplicated usernames since its primary identifier for its users are their mobile numbers.
 The next item you can edit under your Profile is your current status message. To edit it, tap the pencil icon under the Status Message section, type in your new status message, and tap the check button to save it.


Status messages can be a maximum of 250 characters.
 To link your other social network accounts with Chikka, just tap on the appropriate social media site icon and the respective integration process owned by each social network will be triggered. Just follow the specific protocols for each site to proceed with the linking.


Linking your social network accounts with Chikka means signing in will be an easier process as you don’t need to remember your Chikka username and password anymore.
Social network accounts you can integrate with Chikka include Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and LinkedIn.
 At the bottom of the screen, look for the Contacts menu, the one with the people icon. Tap on it to bring up your Contacts List

, Once your list of contacts is displayed, scroll up and down to browse through names and mobile numbers of your friends.
 At the top of the contacts list, tap on the Contacts icon to bring up the Add Contact screen. Key in the name and mobile number of a new contact, and tap on the check icon on the upper-right side of the screen to save the new contact in your Chikka address book.
 Tap on the contact from your contacts list, and then tap on the pencil icon at the top of this screen. Once the Edit Contact screen appears, edit the contact’s name and the mobile number. Tap on the check icon on the upper-right side of the screen to save the changes you made.
 At the top-right section of the contacts list is an icon with three small dots. Tap on it to display a menu from which you select “Delete Contacts.” Your Contacts List will be displayed with tick boxes beside the names. Tick the ones you want to delete, and then tap on the “Delete” button at the bottom of the screen.


Once confirmed for deletion, the selected contacts will no longer be in your address book.
 At the top of the contacts list is the Search bar. Type in the name or number of a contact you’re looking for to bring up your contacts list already filtered to match your search parameter. Select the contact by tapping on it.
 At the bottom of the screen is a panel menu. Tap on the Messages menu tab, the one with the text balloon icon, to go to your inbox.
 Your inbox will contain all the messages you’ve received. Tap on one to open it just as you would ordinary phone text messages.
 At the bottom of the screen is a panel menu. Tap on the Messages menu tab, the one with the text balloon icon, to go to your inbox., At the top of the inbox, tap on the pencil-on-paper icon to bring up your address book. Select the contacts you’d like to send a message to by tapping on their tick boxes.


Once done, tap the “Add” button found below the list.
You can only send messages to people in your contacts list.
 Once you’re on the message composition screen, type your message in the bottom box.


The top box is reserved for the related-message thread.
 Once you’re done, tap on the “Send” button. Your message will be sent out without costing you a cent. However, the message recipients might be charged a minimal fee for receiving the message, but it will depend on their service providers.