 Processed foods are often more expensive than whole, fresh items. If possible, buy the fresh version and process it yourself. For example:


If you like roasted nuts, buy raw nuts from the bulk food section. Spread them on a baking sheet and roast them until they're toasty and brown. They'll taste even better than pre-roasted nuts.
Instead of buying pre-packaged granola or cereal bars, buy the raw ingredients and make them at home.
Buy whole fresh produce and do your own chopping, dicing, juicing, and freezing.
Make your own sauces, dressings and condiments instead of buying pre-bottled varieties.
 If you have the right storage containers and pantry space, you'll be able to purchase both fresh and dried foods in bulk and keep them for a long time.


Set up a cool, dark cellar or pantry for storing potatoes, applies, squash, onions and other produce.
Set up a large freezer to preserve meat and vegetables.
Purchase bins that you can use to store dried beans, nuts, and grains.
 There's no way around it: eating in restaurants is much more expensive than eating at home, and you have less control over how healthy your food is. Save eating out for special occasions.


When you do go out to eat, choose the simplest item on the menu, which is often the cheapest, too.
Consider eating only part of what you are served, since most restaurant portions are larger than necessary. Take the rest home to eat later, and combine it with a health homemade side dish.
 Cooking from scratch is the cheapest way to eat, and it's often the healthiest.


Instead of buying canned soup, learn out to make a big batch yourself. You can stretch it over the course of several days.
Get in the habit of using leftovers. Manage your refrigerator by resolving never to let anything go bad. Eat it or use it as an ingredient in a sauce, casserole, or soup. For example, old lettuce can be chopped and put into a soup, old salsa can be added to a curry, and old milk can be turned into a quiche. (Of course, don't use anything that has actually gone sour or rancid!)

, Use a base of enriched or whole-grain rice, whole-wheat pasta or bread, or cooked oats to provide cheap, healthy bulk to more expensive, flavorful foods.


Try using less beef in some chili recipes by halving the amount of ground beef called for and adding water and instant plain oats instead. Be original and try your own variations.
In general, cut down on the amount of meat you consume. Meat is one of the most expensive food items you can buy, so by going meatless once or twice a week, you can save a lot of money.

