 Simply type your query into a search engine such as Google or Pricegrabber, and look through the results. Using a cost comparison tool will allow you to see the prices for items at major retailers online. While it will give you a good sense of how much an item may cost online, it won’t let you know the possible lower costs that you get by trying offline options such as yard sales.Use an official cost tool for larger items such as cars. If you are unsure of the value of such an item, do not buy it without consulting a professional or official guide (such as Kelly Blue Book)., Avoid buying a product with the salespersons in the room, especially when you’re pressured to make a commitment now to get the best deal. These are often not the deals you hope they are, and the sales staff is hoping to leverage emotion over reason in order to get you to buy now. Consider the following before you buy:You’ll want to read reviews of products before you buy. This can include professional reviewers, as well as the reviews of fellow shoppers. This will help you get a sense of how durable and functional a product is. This is especially important for electronics, but can be useful for getting good deals on furniture and clothing as well.
Hidden costs can add substantially to a purchase’s overall cost. The most common example is buying a used car that turns out to be a lemon, and needs substantial repairs that weren’t included in the original price or description. But hidden costs can include medical costs if a product is defective or harmful, excessive fees for late payments, and finance charges.Some items require upkeep costs to work or retain their value. For instance, a printer will need toner or ink and paper to work.This is a recurring cost that can affect the overall cost of using the product. Some pieces of furniture, motor vehicles, pianos, etc., will require certain care to make sure they work and retain their value. Make sure to investigate all of the necessary upkeep costs associated with a purchase to understand its true cost., To negotiate a price, start with a figure much lower than you intend to pay, but don't be too ridiculous or people won't take the offer seriously. Then up your offer in reasonable increments in response to their counterargument. For instance, if you are haggling over a bike, and you offer $100 and they offer $500, going up to $175 is reasonable, but going up to $105 is not.Don't be too enthusiastic about an item, or the seller will know they can hike up the price.There are times and places where it's perfectly acceptable to haggle. The car lot is often one, but yard sales and other informal sales are great too. Though you can haggle almost anywhere if the situation is right (such as a going-out-of-business sale or if the product is damaged)., Make sure especially when shopping for food to never shop without a list. Make the list at home of things that you just need and cannot do without. Think about making a list of meals for the week and the ingredients that you will need. Never shop without your list and do not impulse buy. Always use your list and spend the amount of money you have worked out prior to shopping. This avoids picking up impulse items that we don't really need.