 We all know this. But to make a woman love you, you need to understand how women process information. It's probably different than you do.


There is a reason women like to talk. Women's brains are wired to be more verbal. Girls learn to speak earlier and are good at learning foreign languages, research has found. Although you don't need to fill every second with words, just be aware that women like it when men process feelings through words. Try to be a good conversationalist - especially if she's angry. When men shut down during arguments and go silent, it drives women crazy. Write her a love note. Remember, women love communication and words. Become the master of the text message.
If she asks you about your day, don't just say it was fine. If she asks you how she looks in that new dress, don't just say she looks fine. Give her some details and back up your answer, and she will feel close to you.;
, Women have different attachment styles. Understanding hers will help you appeal to her.


Secure. A woman with a secure attachment style is confident, and she isn't going to be too clingy (or want you to be). She won't be calling repeatedly or waiting outside your apartment for you to get home. Ideally, this is the kind of attachment style you want a woman to have. If this is your woman, you should show her that you're secure also. She won't have much tolerance for insecurity.
Anxious. Women with anxious attachment styles are insecure and likely to want a relationship to proceed very fast. They need a lot of reassurance, so give it to them.
Dismissive. This kind of woman will fight her attraction to you because she prides herself in her independence and feels smothered by a relationship. You will have to be persistent and make sure you also give her space.
Fearful. Women with fearful attachment styles are those who have gone through some kind of relationship trauma. You should go slow and demonstrate that you understand what she has been through. , Women like to feel unique, and the female brain responds positively to flattery. Women can never get enough compliments.


Tell her she has pretty eyes. If you pull out a single trait, it tells her you really mean it.
Compliment her intellect. Women are used to their looks being talked about, but she also wants to feel valued for her mind. This will tell her you aren't just interested in her physically.
Always tell her she looks good in an outfit, even if she looks awful. It's just not worth it.
 If their friends like a guy, a woman is more likely to think he's something special too.


Never, ever flirt with her friends. It will get you banished. Let her friends know how much you like her. They are probably protective of her and wary that she could get hurt. If you reassure them that you really are into her, they will like you more (and probably tell her besides).
 Men tend to focus on one task at a time, but women's brains are wired to think about many things at once. She will get annoyed if she wants to talk about one thing, but you're still focused on another. An example of this would be if you are watching a basketball game, and she brings up another topic. If you ignore her or say little back, she will be frustrated. Women speak in "hint" language. They will often ask questions that are really nudges for you to get a point. Learn how to perceive what a woman is hinting. For example, if she says, "It's cold in here, don't you think?" she probably wants you to turn the thermostat up for her, not just answer "yes."
Women are intuitive thinkers, so if you compliment her intuition, she will appreciate it. They also like to over analyze relationships. Indulge her in this.