 Head down to your local deli or supermarket and review their selection of specialty snacks. Aged meat and cheese platters are usually a hit, but you can also find a treasure trove of finger sandwiches, olives, breads, crackers and dips. All will make convenient, delicious displays the next time new neighbors move in down the street.Charcuterie trays are a safe choice, as they include a little bit of everything.Order these in advance and pick them up shortly before you exchange gifts to ensure that they’re fresh.;
, Edible gift baskets are a fun, festive way to show someone that you’re thinking about them. Most of these are made up of fresh fruits and chocolates, but they can also include selections of specialty meats, cheeses, crackers and sweets. Like a bouquet, they feature an array of bright colors and beautiful designs, but unlike a bouquet you can snack on them with your friends, family or coworkers throughout the day.Check out companies like Harry & David, Swiss Colony, iGourmet and the original Edible Arrangements.Pick up an edible gift basket to give as a housewarming gift, or have it delivered straight to the recipient's home or workplace.
Food baskets typically average around $50-60, but can get as pricey as a few hundred for more elaborate pairings.
 The old heart-shaped box of truffles is a timeless gift that no goes out of style. If you want, you can update the motif by choosing uncommon or sophisticated candies like caramels, chocolate turtles, toffee, or Turkish delight. Just tie a bow around the package and your work is done.Look for candy shops in your area that offer high-quality artisan sweets.
Include a variety of candies as an extra with a larger gift.
 Not all food gifts have to be eaten. There are also specialty beverages and drink accessories like mulling spices, foreign sodas or alcohol that can be enjoyed hot, cold or with other tasty fare. Place an assortment of coffees, teas or liquors in a basket with a few simple finger foods, or select a bottle of vintage wine and propose a toast to health, friendship and good cheer.Hot cocoa and cider make great potable presents for the chilly months around the holidays.
Think before giving alcohol. If your intended recipient is underage, pregnant or has a history of alcoholism, it may not be the best gift idea.