 You should be the first one on set and the last one to leave every single day. Filming a movie is not easy, and you need to assume that anything that can go wrong will. Actors get sick, weather doesn't cooperate, and there are 100's of little decisions (lighting, character placement, costumes) that need to be made every hour. The only way to have a successful shoot is to do as much work as you can before you even start.


Review the day's shot list. What do you need to get, and what can you cut if you run out of time?
Rehearse with the actors. Make sure they know their lines and how you want them played.
Review lighting and camera choices with the DP., Give everyone the details in a straightforward manner right from the top. This is especially important for low-budget films, as you will usually be getting some acting and work for free. Let the cast and crew know your goals for the day's shoot and how thankful they are for your support.


Give out the day's schedule in advance so everyone is prepared.
Let the crew know about any special effects or moods you are going for and how they can help create them.
Review your shooting procedure so that everyone knows their role.
 Blocking is where the actors are, and where they go. This is the first step to any filming, and the most essential -- all the lights, cameras, and sound cannot be placed until after it is done. If the scene is well rehearsed this should be easy. If not, you'll need to spend some time placing the actors in the right spots.


Keep this as simple as possible-- walking in straight lines, basic entrances and exits, and mostly still positions. It is not a play and the cameras will only capture a small fraction of the entire scene. Let the camera do the movement whenever possible, not the actors.Tape can be placed on the floor to tell the actors where to end up after every shot.
You can often pre-plan using crew-members or a detailed shot list to save time. If you have the blocking already written out, your shoot will be much more productive.
 There are an infinite number of ways to place, move, and use your cameras. This is why a shot-list, which is basically a list of your prearranged camera positions, is vital to save time and money. In the interest of time, the three essential camera angles in a scene of dialog are:



Establishing shots, or masters: Establishing shots contain all the action of the scene -- the speaking characters, the set, and the movements. They are long, wide shots that, if anything went wrong, you could use to film the entire scene, as they capture everything.

2-shot (2-cameras): One camera over each actors shoulder, pointing at the other actor. This way you get to look at each character as they talk.
When filming 3 or more actors, try and block it out so that you have 2 characters in the frame at once -- this way you only need one camera to capture their dialog.
Watch some of your favorite movies with a discerning eye. How, for example, would a movie capture a dinner date between 2 people? You'll notice these three camera angles (one of both of them + the table, one of the guy, one of the girl) more than any other set of shots.
 Remember, it is always better to have more light than to have less. It is easy to darken an image in post-production, but it is very hard to make it lighter without sacrificing image quality. Use natural light to your advantage whenever possible and, above all, keep it simple. Your goal is a nice, gradual range of lights -- deep, dark shadows and very few big bright spots.


Put your camera in black and white to see just the lightness of the image. If it is still an interesting shot in black and white, it will look incredible in color.
The hour and a half around sunrise and sunset is considered the best time to shoot in natural light. The lighting is soft and even, and you can even use this time to illuminate "nighttime" shots, which are dimmed later on in post-production.Use "practicals," or in-scene lights. Having trouble getting the light right? Stick a lamp in the shot, or turn on the ceiling lights., The techniques for beginning a film will vary from set to set, but they should not vary from shot to shot. Having a routine before you start filming ensures that everyone is on the same page, every time. When possible, this is the AD's duty. A sample routine would include:


"Everyone this is picture, quiet please!"
"Roll sound!" This is the cue to start microphones. When done, someone yells, "Rolling!"
"Roll Picture!" This is the cue to start cameras. When done, someone yells, typically, "Speed!"
Read off the title, scene, and take number, "This is My Movie, Scene 1, Take 2." If you have a clapboard, it is slapped and someone shouts "Marker!"
3-5 seconds of silence.
"ACTION!", Pick a few extreme angles, interesting shots of the environment, or close-ups of character's faces, hands, or props and run the scene again. These shots may only last for 1-2 seconds in the movie, but they are essential for editing. Look at any movie and notice how many small, seemingly useless shots are used to get into the world of the scene, show an emotional twitch, or simply transition from scene to scene. Film these shots once the actors have delivered their lines to your liking.Do the characters talk about the cake on the table? Then you need a shot of just the cake on the table. Do you need to show what time it is? Then you need a shot of the clock on the wall., You may need to make some sacrifices depending on your budget and time, but even Hollywood directors are forced to do this. After every day, make sure you have everything you want and need, then cross it off your shot list. You need to know now, not 3 months later as you start editing, if something is missing.
 B-roll is simply the shots that don't include actors. It is usually used in transitions, opening or closing credits, or setting up a new location. Head out with a camera and you DP and get as many hours of footage as you can. You primary goal is to think about footage that may compliment the film. For example, the B-Roll in Punch-Drunk Love is a series of abstract, multi-colored shots that match the protagonist's confused, anxious, and crippled mental state. Spy movies usually have a lot of B-Roll of gorgeous beaches, bustling cities, and dramatic landscapes. B-roll tells your story subtly and visually.


You can never have enough B-roll. When you're editing, this is the connective tissue that holds your scenes together to make a legitimate movie.
You can, and should, shoot B-roll before and after a scene "ends," as these 2-3 seconds are a great way to bring the audience into the scene slowly., At the end of shooting take the time to pull your footage off memory cards and download it to a secure hard drive. This small step at the end of the day can save you hours and hours of time in the unfortunate case that you lose your footage.


Most professionals use more than one backup, copying all the footage to at least two sources before erasing anything on the memory cards.
Take this time to organize your footage as well. Make a folder for the day you shot, then organize the footage in that folder by scene. This will make shooting much, much easier.

