 If there are suspicious attachments, do not open them. You can find the information you need without opening image or document attachments.;
, The header contains information about the routing of the email and the IP address. Most email programs like Outlook, Hotmail, Google Mail (Gmail,) Yahoo Mail and America Online (AOL) hide the header information because they see it as non-essential information. If you know how to open the header, you can still find this data.


On Outlook, go to your inbox and highlight your email using your cursor, but do not open it into its own window. If you are using a mouse, right click the message. If you are using a Mac Operating System (OS) without a mouse, click while holding down the "control" button. Select "Message Options" when the menu appears. Find the headers at the bottom of the window that will appear.
On Hotmail, click on the drop down menu next to the word "Reply." Select "View Message Source." A window will pop up with the address information.
On Gmail, click on the drop down menu next to the word "Reply" in the upper right hand corner of your message. Select "Show Original." A window with the IP information will pop up.
On Yahoo, right click or press "control" and click when you are on the message. Choose "View Full Headers."
On AOL, click "Action" on your message, then select "View Message Source."

, Following any of these methods for your chosen email carrier, you will have a window that pops up with a lot of code information. You will not need all of this information.


If the window is too small to effectively pick out the IP address, copy the information and paste it into a word processing document.
 This is the easiest way to spot the IP address; however, it may not be listed in those terms on all email programs. If you cannot find this term look for the word "Received" and follow the line until you see a numerical address.


Use the "Find" function on your computer to easily spot these terms. Click "Command" and the letter "F" on Mac OS. In Internet Explorer click the "Edit" menu. Select "Find on this Page," then type the word into the box that appears and click "Enter."

, An IP address is a series of numbers with a period/full stop between the numbers. An example is: 68.20.90.31.
 There are many to choose from and most of them are free.
 Press "Enter."

, Most results will show the originating state or city of the IP address and possibly the computer name that the IP address is associated with.

