 Most electric razors require at least 2 weeks of use before your face becomes accustomed to your shaving tool and your shaving tool becomes accustomed to you. The natural oils of your face will coat your electric shaver over time, resulting in less friction and a closer shave., Though some still recommend showering before you shave to soften the bristles of your hair and remove dead skin and oil, most agree that classic electric shavers work best when your face is dry and the hair stiff.Some newer models of electric razor are designed for use in wet or dry environments, on wet or dry skin. If your model claims to have this ability, you should experiment with different degrees of wetness to find what works best for you.
 For the best results for most electric razors, you'll need to attack the hair you are shaving at a right angle, forming an "L" shape with your razor and face. With your free hand, pull your skin tight to make the hairs stand up straight, making it easier for your shaver to do its thing., Those who started shaving with a bladed razor might think it best to shave with the grain, but the opposite is actually true where most electric razors are concerned.Shave in the direction opposite your hair grows naturally to get the best shave out of your electric shaver.
 The mechanism of your electric shaver can build up slight heat while you are shaving. This can lead to minor irritation on sensitive areas of your face, like the back of your neck. Don't press too hard with your shaver and aim for sensitive spots first to prevent irritation., This is especially important if you are making the change from a bladed razor to an electric model. Any difficult areas should be targeted first and shaved with light pressure.If you have irregular growth patterns where you are trying to shave, you should use your fingers to determine the direction of growth.


Run your fingers across your skin. The direction with the least resistance is the direction in which you hair is growing.
 Hair, gunk, and oil can build up in the moving parts of your electric razor over time, causing it to perform less efficiently. Cleaning your electric razor regularly will help your shaver perform to a higher standard, and will keep it running longer as well.