 Find the character you want to roleplay as, whether it be from a video game, a comic book, or a movie or show. If you're going to be using a ready made character, do a lot of research before you begin.


The character does not need to be human. The beauty of roleplaying is that you can choose anything you want. It is all about releasing a yearning inside yourself.
If you want to roleplay as the dog from Air Bud, go ahead!;
, Many people use a character they’ve been trying out for years. For example, if you like to imagine a knight named Sebastian, use this as your character. Consider your character’s background. What do you want them to be like? What will their name be?


Use a pen and paper to write out specific details about your character. Include everything you can think of, even if you choose not to divulge this information to the public.
You have a lot of chances to be creative. Don't be afraid to let your imagination run wild!

, Some people choose not to dress up as the character they are roleplaying. Others enjoy the process and feeling of dressing up. While you’re in the planning stage, think about possible outfits you could wear for this character.


Once you have an idea of the clothes your character will wear, go out to find them. Thrift stores and second hand clothing stores have a variety of clothes that might fit your needs.
Instead of dressing up as a dragon, for example, you could use a series of illustrations you’ve made of the dragon.
 Be realistic with what you wish to accomplish in the planning stage. Many people don’t have an agenda while roleplaying, but instead do it for the fun of it. Some people have goals for roleplaying, for example, you could make a phony politician account and campaign for stricter gun control.


Here is a small list of potential goals you could have for yourself: calling attention to a social or political cause, amassing followers, promoting or reviewing products, or earning an income.You will approach roleplaying differently based on what your goals are.
 If you are choosing a pre-made character, you should just commit time researching everything you can about them. This way you can easily embody this character. If you are creating a character from scratch, practice being this character before going online.You can benefit from dressing up in your room to practice being this character. It might feel silly, but you might learn something by actually trying to live in your character’s persona.

