 Classic hippie music is older music, typically rock n' roll, from the 1960s and 1970s. This time period was when hippie counterculture was skyrocketing. You shouldn’t force yourself to listen to oldies if you don't like it. There are plenty of other music styles that are deemed modern hippie. Give these classic albums a chance before you dismiss it:


The Doors by The Doors
Forever Changes by Love
Surrealistic Pillow by Jefferson Airplane
Deja Vu by CSNY
Are You Experienced by Jimi Hendrix
Blond on Blond by Bob Dylan
IV by Led Zeppelin
Anthem of the Sun by Grateful Dead
Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band by The Beatles
If You can Believe Your Eyes and Ears by The Mamas and the Papas, One large distinction of modern hippies compared to the older generation is the newer strides in electronic music. Many young people who identify as being a hippie also prefer newer styles of psychedelic electronic music. Bands like Shpongle or Infected Mushroom make up examples of the genre, psytrance, which has become very popular with modern hippies.A large connotation with this type of music and concert experience is with drug experimentation.
Electronic hippie music is also rooted deeply in jam band music.
 A staple of the hippie movement is in centered around jam bands. They’ve been a staple since The Grateful Dead and Allman Brothers and have since evolved throughout the decades. It is not necessary to like jam bands, but most connotations of a hippie imply an appreciation or knowledge of jam bands.Newer offshoots from the first generation of jam bands are:


Phish
Widespread Panic
The String Cheese Incident
moe.
There are also many genre offshoots that cross into other genres like bluegrass, Yonder Mountain String Band, and dance music, Disco Biscuits.
 Since Woodstock and Monterey Pop festival, more and more music festivals have popped up around the world. One of the biggest festivals for modern hippies is Burning Man, in which the regular festival attendees are called “burners.”


Another traveling large festival for hippies is called Rainbow Gathering.
There are tons of music festivals year round and almost all of them feature a "hippie band".

