 If you are craving a sugar fix, you may opt for foods with natural sugars instead of chocolate. You may have fresh fruit, such as mangos, strawberries, blueberries, kiwis, pears, apples, or pineapple. Cut up fresh fruit and carry it in your bag as a snack for when you feel a chocolate craving coming on.You can also leave fresh fruit cut up in a bowl in your home so you can reach for it easily. This may help you replace your chocolate bars with fruit, a much healthier option that still contains sugar.
 You may also find your sweet tooth gets less intense if you switch to having beverages and foods that are more bitter. You may try to integrate beverages that are more bitter into your diet, such as black coffee or unsweet tea. Drinking beverages that are more bitter may make you crave sugar and sweet things, such as chocolate, a lot less.You may also try having foods that are more bitter in taste, such as bitter vegetables like rapini or nettles. More bitter foods could help you get used to having a more bitter taste in your mouth, rather than the sweetness of chocolate.
 One of the reasons you may crave chocolate is because your body likes to absorb theobromine, which is a natural compound found in cocoa. Dark chocolate has a higher theobromine content than milk chocolate. Theobromine is good for the management of high blood pressure and helps to increase your energy levels. If you are consuming chocolate to get the benefits of theobromine, you may consider having the supplement version instead.You can find theobromine supplements online or at your local healthfood store. Most supplement companies recommend you have 100 mg theobromine one to two times a day. Do not exceed a dose of 500 mg of theobromine a day.
You can also get theobromine by drinking yerba mate, a type of medicinal tea. Follow package directions or consult your doctor or dietitian to determine an appropriate dosage of yerba mate for you.Be aware that the FDA does not regulate the content or potency of dietary supplements. Make sure you purchase supplements that have been evaluated by a third party organization, like USP (United States Pharmacopeia). Always talk to your doctor before starting a new dietary supplement.

