 Hopefully you picked up a poster at the craft store with the ribbon. Here's the keys to the poster:Before you start writing on the poster:
Get some scratch paper out to sketch out some ideas of layouts. You need to figure out exactly what you are going to write and draw as well as where you want everything to go BEFORE you start putting it on the posterboard.
Figure out who you want to do the writing on the poster. They need to have neat, legible handwriting.
If you have a friend who is an artist, ask them if they can draw a really cool picture of your face on the poster.




What to put on the poster and how to do it:
"VOTE" and "YOUR NAME". "Vote" will go at the very top, above your name. For your name: make it really big and thick. Write it neatly. Put it on the top and have it stretch across the whole width of the poster. You will want to get a regular pencil (not mechanical, the lead is too hard and sharp) and a ruler and LIGHTLY mark two straight lines across where you are going to write it. These are guidelines to mark the top and bottom of your letters so that it is super-neat. You will probably want to lightly sketch out your letters with the pencil on the posterboard before you write them on there so you can figure out the right spacing and look. (This may seem like overkill, but trust me, you don't want to mess up and have to start over again. Don't rush it, take your time and you'll get it right.) Now you can get your permanent marker and write your name.
Write "for Vice President" below your name.
Your slogan/tagline. As I mentioned in strategy # 1, you'll want a catchy slogan like "The People's Choice". Write that next.
Your image. I can't tell you how important a cool image of face is. Just trust me. If you have a friend who is an artist, have them draw a portrait of you on the poster. If you don't, get a friend to take a picture of you (a good looking headshot). Take the picture into a decent photo editor and make it black and white. Increase the contrast quite a bit to add some visual flare. Then print it out pretty big (it will be right in the middle of your poster).
Your "platform". Decide the best points from Step 2 to put on the poster. I'd suggest writing them in bullets. Put your most important points (your "key" points from question 3) first, and write them bigger than the rest of your points (questions 1 and 2).(This will fill up the middle section of the poster. Make sure to leave some room at the bottom.)
At the bottom, write "show your support for me by tying a ribbon around your instrument and on your locker"..."Get a ribbon from me or (the names of your helpers)".



