 A number of people with similar base arrangement to wolves have been discovered in the process of antidoting DNA of mankind of near future.Many of them are found mainly among people with superb physical performance like athletes or mercenaries and they have prominently shorter life spans than others have. A multinational medicine-manufacturing conglomerate "Pfien", witch developed a new medicine "Epoxyn" for a disease "Diewolf syndrome", also develops "Anti-Epoxyn" that has opposite effect in profound secrecy and supplies to the France military. The France military establishes a special force "Wolfteam", also known as the 2nd foreign legion, and recruits unit aiming worldwide.;
, Wolf Team is a free-to-play first-person shooter that pits humans against wolf-human hybrids. Players may choose to play as humans with access to high-tech weapons and team-coordination or wolf-humans that have the ability to transform in wolves at will and kill a man with their bare hands.



Humans have access to anything from medieval weapons to futuristic guns. Wolf Team features a WP equipment system. Basically, this means that the damage objects and surfaces suffer is affected by the distance from the weapon and what the material it's made out of.
Wolves have differing abilities depending on their character and wolf features. Wolves may also gain new abilities and enhance previous ones.
 Wolf Team also features a ranking system for players based on experience points.
 Being in a sniping bunker doesn't help; someone throws a grenade in you're pretty much screwed so like most people tell you shoot and run from the spot!

, And you don't want a general on your rival list.
, Not just because of the graphics, but also the bullet damage depends on how far you are. Also you won't die from like... let's say 27 bullets! One shot and boom! your practically dead. You get 200 Hp but don't let that fool you! One bullet can do a lot of damage (snipers 150 damage maybe, assault rife 50s range, rocket launcher 999, stationary machine guns 30-60 but they fire fast, grenades you're lucky if you survive, red line grenades take a lot of health but don't kill you most the time)

,, Don't take too long to aim or they will just shoot you.
