 On a deeper level, meditation is all about staying in the present. Since one can be present, to a degree, without having to dedicate time to meditate. So meditation is not always necessary. Here are a few 'structure-less' meditation practices that don't require you to dedicate time.


Feel your body from the inside. Can you feel the energy field, the sensation inside your body, especially your arms, face, near your heart and legs? This is your ever present beingthat's connected with the universal intelligence. Just focus your awareness on that energy field, it would not only anchor you in the present but also strengthen your immune system.
Be aware of sense perceptions and breathing. Read Stay Rooted in Being for more insight on these meditation practices.
 This term was used by spiritual teacher Eckhart Tolle in his book Power of Now. It says unmanifested comes into this reality, or becomes manifested, via portals. It means, when you keep your awareness on these portals, they open and you connect to the universal consciousness that is present in every being. It means 'Consciousness' becoming 'Conscious' of itself. In our essence we are consciousness and the purpose is to connect with it.


Here's a practice: Be aware of sense perceptions, breathing, inner body or awareness of awareness itself. Keeping some attention on one of the these portals while doing anything increases the quality of your actions. Be very aware as 'keeping some attention' may become a mental concept. It is highly recommended to read Surrender to the Present Moment for more depth on this.
Have you noticed that when you try something new, you feel a sensation in your body, an uneasiness? That's pre-verbalized mental reaction which tries to stop you from trying that new thing. This is always there whenever you try to do something new and challenging, or encounter something unpleasant, etc. Just allow it to be, don't fight it and if you can't allow it to be, then allow 'yourself to be uncomfortable' or we can say 'allow that which you can't allow'.
 It is very possible to stay connected to the portals or 'being' throughout your life, How? Whenever you are doing your normal routine work, keep a fraction of your attention within your body, breath or sense perception. This is a very effective practice to become proactive because when you are connected to your being, the reactions get channeled to your body and you feel more non-reactive. Which means more attention and intelligence during challenging situations. Try it out.
 On a universal level 'giving' is the same as 'receiving'. If you feel people are withholding something from you like respect, praise, worthiness, etc you give it to the people. If you don't have it, 'act as if you have it'. If you feel that you already have it you will almost certainly get it.

