 The foods which may irritate ulcers vary from person to person. Some people can eat whatever they like without any increased irritation, but this is not true for everyone. You will have to learn over time which foods cause you problems and cut them out or limit them in your diet. A good place to start is with foods which increase your stomach acid production.Patients with peptic ulcers should avoid diets rich in red meat, fried or fatty foods, and refined foods, such as flour or sugar.
Be cautious of dairy foods with whole milk or cream.
Spearmint, peppermint and other minty foods seem to increase the production of stomach acid.Diets heavy in these foods can lead to further ulcer irritation and an increase in stomach acid.
 As well as foods that can provoke increased production of stomach acid, some other foods can irritate your ulcer more directly. In practice this will vary from person to person, but there are some general recommendations for those with an ulcer. The first of these is to try to avoid eating spicy food. The sting you feel from spicy food if you have a cut on your finger or mouth can be replicated in your stomach or intestine if you have an ulcer.


The second recommendation is to avoid citrus and acidic foods and drinks. Highly acidic orange or lemon juice could irritate the ulcer and cause you pain.You should also be wary of tomato products, onions and garlic and heavily seasoned food in general., Diets rich in whole grains and fiber rich foods, with limited dairy, help control the production of stomach acid. Ensure you get plenty of fibrous vegetables as part of your healthy balanced diet. If you are not consuming enough vitamin-rich foods your body may find it harder to heal your ulcer.Good sources of fiber are whole-wheat bread, pasta and brown rice.
Opt for limited amounts of lean meat, and limited low fat dairy products.There is no single recommended diet for those with an ulcer, so you should think about what food causes you irritation and discuss this with your doctor.Eating foods rich in antioxidants (blueberries, cherries, tomatoes, squash, and bell peppers), flavonoids (apples, celery, cranberries, onions, garlic, and tea), B vitamins and calcium (almonds, beans, whole grains, spinach, kale, and sea vegetables) may also help to reduce your symptoms.Continue to drink 6-8 glasses of water each day as part of your healthy diet., A peptic ulcer sufferer is not advised to eat sporadic meals that vary in size. Doing so may cause disruption in the normal production of stomach acid, and end up irritating an ulcer. Keeping meals small and regular can help level out stomach acid. Your stomach may deal better with small regular meals than large irregular ones.


Avoid eating anything at least two hours before you go to bed.