 Whatever your issue may be, chances are good that you’ll come to a point where you feel like there’s nothing left that you can do. Whether you’re looking for a new job, going through a tough breakup, or struggling to accept a new way of life, it’s perfectly normal to feel overwhelmed and not be sure what to do next. When this happens, ask friends or family for their input.Your friends and family care about you. They can help you to see the positive side of your experiences and where you can go from here.
Try to engage their suggestions actively. Once you know what direction you want to go in, you can begin taking steps to improve your life, and possibly even the lives of others.
 The difference between a person that can handle anything and a person that can’t is often that one has already been through quite a bit. Adversity, bad as it may feel, can make you a better, stronger, more well-rounded person. Each obstacle you overcome is another skill you have developed. That knowledge can help you and sharing those experiences can be helpful for others.Adversity can lead to valuable problem solving skills and increased emotional intelligence. The difficulties you face today will be strengths you can draw from tomorrow.
Learn lessons from your struggles so you don’t repeat them. The next time you find yourself in a difficult situation, you can be the person that says, “don’t worry, I know exactly what to do.”

, Despite how difficult things may have been for you, you survived. Your story and experiences may help others that are in similar situations. You may be able to offer advice, or you may be able to provide people with an understanding that they aren’t alone in their struggles. Empower yourself by using your own challenges as a tool to help others.


Share your story on social media or seek public forums to discuss your experiences.
Attend support group meetings to provide support for others and seek support in your times of need.
 The knowledge you have gained through your experiences can be extremely beneficial to others that are struggling, and you may find that you enjoy speaking to people about challenges and how to overcome them. You may be able to pursue a career in public speaking or you may want to look into becoming a counselor yourself.Your experiences can help you empathize with other’s struggles. Knowing what someone is going through can make you an extremely effective counselor.

Speaking publicly about disabilities, struggles with addiction or depression or overcoming other significant adversity can be an inspiration to many people as well as a lucrative career path.

