 Shower every day. Brush and style your hair. Always wear deodorant/antiperspirant, especially in the summer or whenever you plan to do some sweating. Use body lotion to keep your skin moisturized.


Concentrate on your knee caps and the backs of your elbows, which tend to get particularly dry.
Take time to pick out clothing that fits you well and shows off your assets.
 This can help make your complexion look fresh and dewy. It will diminish the look of wrinkles and also help prevent them. If you wear makeup, it’s much easier to apply to moisturized skin and the end result usually looks better, too.


Use a moisturizer with SPF to protect your skin from sun damage. Sun damage can cause wrinkles and create dark spots on your face.
Keep lip balm or Chapstick on hand and apply it often to keep your lips moisturized.
 Keep your eyebrows neat by tweezing any stray hairs you see, especially in between them.If you have a beard or goatee, keep it trimmed and neat. If you shave your face, make sure you always use a shaving cream or gel to protect and moisturize your skin. Shave very carefully with a sharp razor to avoid nicks and cuts.If you don’t shave your face, check for any unwanted hair above your upper lip.
Manage unwanted hair by bleaching it. You can also remove it completely by waxing or using a depilatory.
 Well-maintained teeth are considered to be attractive by most people. Brush and floss your teeth twice per day to keep them healthy. Doing this regularly will keep your breath fresher, too. If you have any stains or if you just want your teeth to be whiter, use a whitening toothpaste to brighten them. Have a dentist clean them for you every six months.
 Wash your hands whenever necessary to keep them looking clean. Trim your fingernails and toenails regularly.Avoid biting your nails. Use nail clippers to keep them short, neat and clean. If you spot any dirt beneath your fingernails, clean underneath to get rid of it.


You can remove stubborn dirt under your nails with by scrubbing them with an old toothbrush, soap and water.
Moisturize your hands every day to keep them looking their best., If you want to use makeup to enhance your beauty, keep it simple. Wear mascara to open up your eyes. Use foundation, concealer and creams that will help to even out your skin tone and give your skin a glowing look. Contour and highlight the best angles of your face to emphasize them.


Always wash your makeup off before you go to bed each night. Otherwise you will end up with dull skin and possibly a break out.Consider using mineral makeup, since it doesn’t clog pores.