 With the band done, you will want to add decorations in order to complete the look. A bow is a classic look for young girls and is simple to create. This may be a good place to start when creating your own baby headbands.


To make a bow, you will need ribbon. Try to get fabric ribbon, as plastic ribbon is not good for this purpose. Choose a ribbon that compliments the color of the band you have just created and appeals to your personal taste.
There are several different types of bow. You can make one which is simple, like those used to tie shoes, or you can make one that is more complex, like those bought to go on presents. For the simple bow, tie a bow as normal. Take an extra inch or two of ribbon and wrap it around the center of the bow to hide the knot. Glue or sew this unto the band.
For a more complex bow, take a roll of ribbon. Holding the end down, make a loop about two inches long and then hold that down. Reverse and do the same thing on the other side. Reverse and repeat until your bow looks full. Use a single stitch to keep it in place and then cover the center as before. Glue or stitch this to the band.
 You may wish to go for a more floral look with your headband. This is a great look for little girls and will give her a fairy-like appearance. You can use one flower or glue multiple flowers together. You can use craft flowers, which look realistic, a simply glue them on or you can create your own from fabric.


Begin with foot-long, one inch wide strips of fabric. Try to use fabric which is contrasting but complementary to the band you have sewn. Any fabric type will do, including basic cottons.
Glue this fabric around a pipe cleaner in a slightly uneven way. This will give the material a draped look.
Roll the pipe cleaner into a rosette shape. If you are only using one, it may be possible to then glue the flower directly to your band. Otherwise, glue the flower or flowers into an arrangement on a piece of felt. Cut the felt to ensure that it is not visible when looking at the flowers from above and then glue the felt to the band.
 For a more fabulous look, you can use sequins. These are easy to use and do not require you to make anything extra. They come in a variety of colors and sizes and can be attached to your band to create many different patterns. Try using varying sizes of the same color to achieve a different look.


Sequins can be sew on individually by stitching through the hole at the center or they can be glued to the band. Use whatever method is suited to your skill and what you feel looks best. You may wish to practice attaching them to scrap fabric first.
 You can attach a variety of shapes to the headband as well. These can be items you have crafted yourself or they can be items purchased from a craft store. This can be a great way to let your little girl’s personality shine through. Choose items which tell people who she is. Stars, hearts, animals, or food items all make good shapes to put on the band.


You can make these shapes yourself, using felt. You can simply create the shape and cut it from one or more pieces of felt and glue that to the band, or you can use felting to create a 3D object to glue or stitch to the band. It simply depends on your skill and desire.
You can also use novelty buttons or scrapbooking decorations to embellish your headband. Glue or sew these as necessary.

