 These are the kinds of foods that will typically trigger heartburn and acid reflux. In small amounts you might be able to continue eating them for a treat, but as a regular part of your diet, you need to cut them out.Fried foods, particularly deep fried
Foods with lots of chiles or hot peppers
Creamy or dairy-heavy foods (particularly those with lots of cream or butter);
, Neither substance is easy for your body to process. They also tend to dry out your mouth, which is bad for saliva production. Saliva helps your body break down and process your food.You can have a drink of alcohol or coffee occasionally, but keep track of how you feel afterward -- if it exacerbates your symptoms you should probably try to never drink either.
 Acid reflux and heartburn can both be exacerbated by acid in your diet. Unfortunately, they are common in many diets. Some of the common acidic foods to avoid are:Citrus fruits
Tomatoes
Cocoa products (chocolate-based)

, A varied diet of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats will help keep GERD at bay. Check the website below for help planning healthy meals.Some good choices include:


Berries
Apples
Leafy greens
Cruciferous vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower
Whole grains like oatmeal, farro, quinoa, wild rice
Lean meats like loin cuts and poultry
Fish

, Your body will be better able to process smaller amounts of food. With the smaller amounts, it’s less likely that your body will respond with GERD symptoms. Staying full means that you will probably need 5-6 small meals per day, rather than three.
 You need to be upright for your body to properly process food, and it takes a while. Going to bed or laying down soon after eating is a very common cause of heartburn, as acidic stomach contents move back up into your esophagus. Stay upright for three hours after every meal or snack to prevent this.Also avoid bending over and lifting heavy objects after a meal, as the strain can also trigger GERD symptoms.
If you absolutely need to rest, raise your head up on the bed so that you’re not completely horizontal. You might also consider sleeping with your head slightly raised to help digestion.

