 Check its fit against the house before proceeding.









If you plan to cover your house's rim joists with the deck's skirting board, cut the ledger board shorter to accommodate the width of the skirting board (usually 3/4 inch, or 1.9 centimeters) on either side.
 First, mark off the deck's rim joists on the left edge of the ledger board. (These are usually 2 joists laid side-by-side for strength.) Then, mark the centers of where each intervening joist will go and measure half the joist's thickness from each of these marks on either side. Then, mark off the rim joists on the right edge of the ledger board. Draw lines across the ledger board surface to mark all the joist edges.
 Cut the beam the same length as the ledger board. If you plan to have the joists butt flush against this beam (a flush beam), then use a framing square to align the edges of both beams and then copy the marks in full. If you plan to have the joists rest on this beam instead (a dropped beam), you'll only need to have marks across the top for reference.









Most building codes require the opposite beam to be twice or three times as thick as the interior joists, so as with the rim joists, you'll have to cut multiple beams and sandwich them side-by-side. (If the deck is to be a free-standing deck, the ledger board beam would also have to be sandwiched with one or two other beams for strength.)

, Check the spacing of the joist hangers with a scrap of wood the width of the joists, then nail the joist hangers in place with short, thick nails designed to secure the joists. If your opposite beam is to be a flush beam, you'll also want to attach joist hangers to the innermost member of that beam.
 Tack the board in place temporarily with nails. Drill 1 or 2 holes between where every 2 joists will go. Apply silicone caulk to the inside of each hole, then sink a lag screw into each hole to secure the ledger board permanently. Cover the ledger board with a waterproof membrane or galvanized metal flashing.









Ignore this step if the deck is to be a free-standing deck.
 You can lay out the positions for the footings using string and stakes or batter boards to form a grid. Mark the footing positions on the strings, then transfer them to the ground. Dig 6 inches (15 centimeters) below the frost line for each footing with either a post-hole digger or power auger; make the bottom of each hole wider than the top.









You may need to have the holes inspected for depth before you can pour the concrete.
 Place one in each hole and support it with loose back-fill, then trim all the piers level to support the posts evenly. Pour concrete into the holes and let it set for at least 24 hours before preceding.
 To anchor the posts in place, set 6-inch (15-centimeter) lengths of stainless steel rod or rebar halfway into the piers to serve as drift pins and drill holes in the post bottoms before placing them. You can also cover the pier tops with adhesive before setting the posts if the tops are wooden or use anchor brackets if the tops are concrete. Plumb the posts to be level and affix temporary braces to keep the posts from moving until the framing is in place.
 If your posts are tall, you may have to raise the individual members of the beam one by one instead of together. Set the beam members such that the outermost member is flush with the edge of the post. Attach the innermost member beam with toe nails or whatever connector your building codes require.
 Connect the rim joists to the ledger board and innermost member of a flush opposite beam with inside corner brackets. Adjust the beam member to get it square if it isn't, then affix the reinforcing outer beam members to the innermost member with nails, screws or lag bolts.
 Sight down each joist edge to look for any signs of bowing (crowning). Slip them into the joist hangers on the ledger board and opposite flush beam (or atop an opposite dropped beam), crowned side up. Tap them in place if necessary, and if they're too tight, trim a bit off the ends so they slip in without excessive force. If the opposite beam is a dropped beam, toenail the joists in place.
 Measure the deck frame from the outside edge of one rim joist to the outside edge of the other and add the width of any skirting or length of any overhang to it. Cut the first two deck boards to this length, then cut off the length of any overhang from the board that will be laid next to the house. (Subsequent boards need not be cut to this length, but can be laid down first and cut flush with the first two boards later.) Set the first board against the house sheathing and the next board against it if wet and the width of a 16-penny nail apart from it if dry. Attach the boards to the joists with two nails or screws. Straighten the boards as you go with a flat bar.









If you're building a wide deck, you can cut multiple deck boards to span the distance between the rim joists, with the places where two boards meet falling in the middle of a joist. Stagger these joints between each row of decking to make the deck look nicer.
Periodically measure the distance from the front of the deck to each end of the last board laid. They should be equal; if not, decrease the gaps between boards slightly on the longer side and increase them slightly on the shorter side until the distances are equal again.
If the last deck board is wider than the space to lay it, either narrow it or use a narrower board of the same type of decking material. If the board is narrower than the space available, take a wider board and narrow it as necessary.
The photo shows the deck planks running parallel to the joists, they should under no circumstances be laid in this fashion. Instead lay them perpendicular to the joists.
 If your deck is high enough to require stairs, determine the number of steps you'll need by dividing the deck height in feet by seven. If the quotient is a whole number, use the quotient as the number of steps, with a rise of 7 inches (17.5 centimeters). If the quotient includes a fraction, round to the nearest whole number to get the number of steps and divide that number into the deck height to get the rise in inches. Divide the rise into 75 to get the approximate length for each step.









You'll need to have a stringer at either end of the staircase to attach the steps to and another stringer in the center if you have a wide or tall staircase. Lay the first stringer out with a framing square to find the rise and run, then transfer the marks to the other stringers. Cut out the step supports, then brace the stringers together and nail them to the deck's rim joist before securing them permanently with lag screws.
Cut the steps to have a 3/4-inch (1.9-centimeter) overhang to either side of the stringer assembly to channel rain away from the stringers. Attach them to the stringers with screws or nails.
 If your deck is more than a step high, you'll want or need to have deck railings to prevent falls. Begin by installing the corner and stair posts, plumbing them and securing them first with glue, then with either lag screws or carriage bolts. The remaining pieces – top rails, bottom rails and spindles – may be attached individually or assembled into sections and then installed as units.









Measure the distance between posts to find the length of the rails and cut them to that length.
Vertical spindles usually need to be spaced to more than 4 inches (10 centimeters) apart and should be placed closer together if it will create even spacing over the entire deck. They can be attached to the rails with nails or screws, while the rails themselves attach to the posts with angle screws. (Use wooden blocks to prop up the rail sections while screwing them in.)
Cut the stair posts to the correct height and angle with the help of a framing square, then install the bottom stair rails and hand rails. Figure the length of the stair rails by dividing the stair rise by the run, multiplying by the deck rail length, squaring the result, adding the square of the deck rail length and take the square root of the result. Cut the spindles to the right length, angled for the slope of the rail and install as described above for the deck spindles.
 Cut the boards to cover the deck's beam and rim joists and nail them in place.








