 Because every risk you take makes you a more confident and stronger person. However, understand that there are positive risks and negative risks. Do the things that lead you forward toward your goals.;
, Set realistic, attainable goals so that you aren't let down if you can't accomplish everything at once. Take it one step at a time and think positive!

,, Wash your hair often (enough for your hair type) and bathe yourself often. Don't get too obsessed every minute on how you look. One of the important things about being confident is being comfortable with yourself and your body. Be mindful of wearing clothes that are too revealing or too small for your body type, as they can be unflattering. If you feel the need to, carry simple things with you like a small hairbrush, lip gloss/chap stick, and a small bottle of body spray.
 Buy what you like to wear and what makes you happy. Don't wear anything just because a certain crowd is. If you like the normal jeans and t-shirt look then, it's totally you. As long as you're comfortable, you'll become confident. Follow your own standards.
 And never be scared to do the right thing.
 Being unique and confident is all about your personal uniqueness. If you like wearing jewelry, go for it! If you don't like wearing jewelry, that's your personal taste and no one should tell you otherwise. Your hairstyle, hair color, shoes, purse and other accessories are other ways you can personalize your look. Like jewelry, these things are not for everyone and you shouldn't do it if you don't feel comfortable with it.
 A clean room means that you can find what you need when you need it, so you aren't stressed out because you lost something. You will also feel better when your friends come over if you can show them a clean room. Nobody wants to see your underwear on the floor!

,, Study for tests, do homework and all assigned reading. Answer questions in class and ask questions relating to the topic. Don't be afraid if you still don't understand what you're learning, talk to your fellow classmates or talk to your teacher. You can't pass your classes if you don't ask questions. Being smart is not weird. People who think so are not smart.
 If you have a swearing problem, make up your own "swear word replacements". Instead of saying the 'F-word', replace it with the word "frick" or "fudge." A simple word replacement is always better than the actual swear word. If you can, eventually eliminate these slang terms.
 If you're good at dancing, take up a class and polish your skills; if you're good at sports, take lessons and join a team.
 It can boost your confidence level, help you develop your social skills, and help you make some friends.
 If you love music, go ahead and don't be afraid to whip out your IPod or CD player (If the time is important of course) Read books or write poetry if you love it. Paint, draw, swim, or watch Anime if it's your personal thing. Everybody has different hobbies and there's nothing wrong with expressing it. Remember: It's all about what makes you happy, not doing it because someone else wants you to. Find things you're passionate about and don't be afraid to try something new.
 If you feel your friends have less respect for you, talk to them. Let them know how you feel, tell them how you expect to be treated, and offer solutions. If someone makes you feel bad or not good enough, they are not your friend and you should dump them immediately. .
, Don't be afraid to say "no" if the situation calls for it. Example situations would be if a friend asked you to help them cheat or copy off of your homework.
 Embrace differences in others and celebrate diversity.
, As a teenager, you're growing up, but you also have to respect your own boundaries and limits. When the time comes, you'll know and you'll be much happier that you waited until you were ready.
 These are one of the biggest problems as a teenager. Drugs are not a good thing in the first place and it is preferable that you don't do it at all. It can do serious damage and ruin your good reputation. Don't go out and get drunk. First off as a teenager, you're underage. Second, getting drunk can be dangerous, you can do things you'll regret.
 Don't give into high school stereotypes like being a prep, emo, or punk rocker. Your own style is what you make it. If someone calls you a poseur, brush it off. # Think positive! Don't feel pressured to look exactly like a model or celebrity. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder and if you think you're beautiful, then you are beautiful!

, If someone calls you a mean name, shrug it off, however, if someone compliments you, take it in. Think about it.
 Not only will it make you happy, but it will also make someone else feel good that they did something nice. They also might become your friend.
 or, "Look at me...I look beautiful today."...you could grab a chair and sit in front of the mirror, and state all the good things about you, the things that make you a beautiful girl just the way you are. Don't compare yourself to a movie star.
 If you don't take care of yourself, your emotional health, you could make bad decisions that you'll regret later. Tell someone if you're scared or upset and that you want help to make yourself feel better.
