 Follow the traditional outline of introduction, evidence, insights and conclusion. Image you are writing a story and need to map out the plot.;
, Structure your report to respond to three aspects of the thing you are presenting or answer three questions, such as “what,” “why” and “how.” The human mind is set up to respond positively to three things in a list or in a presentation.
 This will help evoke a mental image and get them thinking critically about what you’re saying.
 Balance that and then tell them why the data is important in each of your three sections. Remember, most of the data can be shown with visual aids, so don’t over report.
 Instead of telling them the trends you see in the data, challenge them to find what the trends are telling the company. Build interaction into your presentation to avoid boring lectures., Adjust your writing for each new audience you have. Research your audience so that you can better customize your presentation to their needs.
 Practice it in front of a colleague or friend so that you can ask them what they’ve taken away from the presentation.
 The audience may only leave with this impression., A shorter presentation is likely to be memorable. If the presentation is over 30 minutes, you should consider cutting it back or breaking it up into several chapters.
 If you don’t have a projection screen or you’re outside in full sunlight, a PowerPoint won’t be the best way to present your data. PowerPoint presentations are still the gold standard of the business world; however, you might be able to employ a laptop, a projector or even cell phones to ensure you are reaching your audience.
 There’s very little reason to design your own template when so many slideshow programs give you compelling templates to choose from.
 Consistency allows the listener to notice the information, rather than the way it’s presented. Don’t change colors, fonts or structure unnecessarily., Use white space so that the audience’s attention is focused on particular data.
 Your speaking will provide the insights, so give the data in the most straightforward way.
 This is a chart or graph that incorporates pictures with data and words to form a coherent, and very attractive, story. You may need to use an infographic service or hire a graphic designer.
 Make sure you don’t simply use stock imagery. Any way you can tie in company or emotional images will create a better response.
 These things can detract from a presentation, rather than add to it. A no frills approach is usually best.
 Ask someone else to proof them. Including typos or incorrect data will reflect poorly on you., PowerPoint is best if you are in a Windows-centric office and you need to share the presentation with others. Keynote is best in an Apple-centric environment.


There are many more web-based services that you can use to develop your presentation. Some of these allow you to make and edit the presentation from a tablet or phone.
 If you want to be able to pull your presentation up at any time, post it online for easy access. Use capabilities like Apple’s Airplay to push a YouTube clip to a large Apple computer.
 Services like Knovio allow you to add narration so that your presentation can be posted in its entirety.
 The newest presentation services allow you to use a more natural, story-like flow, so the presentation feels like navigating a website, rather than moving through slides., You will reach more people and your presentation may even go viral. Make sure you have your company’s permission before doing so.
 If you want a wider reach, then a good presentation can be shared using Facebook, Twitter and other outlets.

