 Top left is generally your "adjust" button, bottom left "mode", and top right and bottom right will allow you to alter number values up and down.;
, Press the bottom left "mode" button to run through the screens if you're not sure - you will pass things such as the Hand Set, alarm, stopwatch, timer and world time. The main time screen will generally come up after world time. Press the bottom left button each time you want to change screen.
 You will hear a beep and the numbers will begin to flash, usually starting with the seconds. (Depending on the style of watch, your Home City may flash first. If so, use the top right and bottom right buttons to change the city to the nearest one to you in the same time zone. E.g. if you are in Brisbane, Australia, set it to Syd (Sydney).)

, If you don't want to set the seconds, just press "mode" straight away.
 Use the top right and bottom right buttons to adjust. Press mode to move on to the other time value (hour or minute, depending on what you changed first). Once you have the time right, press the bottom left "mode" button again.
 Again, using the top right and bottom right buttons, adjust the day, month or year depending on what the watch lets you change first. Press the bottom left "mode" button to progress to the next part of the date and repeat until day, month and year are all correct.
 Select using top right/bottom right buttons and hit mode again. When you have set every element, you will eventually be brought back to the start (i.e. flashing seconds or flashing Home City, depending on the watch).
 Presto, you're done! Unless you have a digi/analogue watch, in which case read on.
 If your watch doesn't do this (i.e. the hands tell a different time to the digital), press the bottom left "mode" button until the digital screen says "H-S (with the digital time)" "H-S" "Hand Set" "Hand Set (digi time)" or similar. This is your hand set screen.
 You will hear a beep and the digital screen will probably start flashing. Use the top right and bottom right buttons to move the hands. Some models will only let you move one way using the bottom right button so you may have to be patient. Pressing the bottom right button moves the minute hand by one minute and holding it in will make the hand move around faster.
 You may have to wait to go through the hours until it matches with the digital time. As you get closer to the right time (e.g. you are 10 minutes off being correct) stop holding the bottom right button and press it the final few times to set it to the time you need. If you hold on too long, you may go past the time you need and have to go around all over again. V. frustrating.
 Some watches may automatically return you to the main time screen. If your digi screen still says "H-S" "H-Set" etc. then hit the bottom left "mode" button until you come back around to the main screen.
