 You typically only have 20 days to respond to a lawsuit from a collection agency, but you may have longer if you were served by mail rather than in person.The complaint should indicate how long you have to respond.Write down that date and get started write away – avoiding the lawsuit won't make it go away. On the contrary, if you don't respond to the lawsuit, the debt collector will win by default.Keep in mind that a collection agency cannot garnish your wages unless it wins a lawsuit against you.If you don't file an answer to the lawsuit, the collection agency will win – even if you have a defense that would eliminate your legal obligation to pay. By answering the lawsuit, you are forcing the debt collector to prove in court that you have a legal obligation to pay., The complaint should include enough information for you to identify the debt, but you may have to look through your own records.


Many states require collection agencies to attach a copy of the credit card agreement you signed to their complaint. If this document was not included, it's up to the collection agency to prove it exists. If it can't prove you didn't agree to pay back the money, it can't prove that it's entitled to any repayment.Even if you recognize the debt and don't dispute it, you still have the option of denying the allegations in the complaint. A denial forces the collection agency to prove the allegation., If you are faced with legal action, an experienced consumer attorney may be your best bet to ensure your rights are protected and you avoid garnishment.If you can't afford an attorney, check with your local legal aid offices to find out if you qualify for free or reduced-cost services. In addition, law school clinics or your local bar association may have resources available for low-income individuals sued by collection agencies.
 Each state has a deadline after which a creditor cannot sue you to recover a debt – even if the debt is valid.


The state's deadline that applies typically will be the state where you live, but it may be a different state if the credit card agreement states that it's governed by a particular state's law.In most states, the statute of limitations for credit card debt is between three and six years. You can easily find the appropriate statute of limitations that governs your case by searching "statute of limitations credit card debt" on the internet with the name of your state or the state that governs your credit card agreement.Typically the statute of limitations begins running from the date of your last payment or acknowledgement that you owe the money. For that reason, you should avoid contacting the creditor or collection agency, especially if you believe the deadline for them to file suit has already passed.If you have any questions about the statute of limitations as applied to your case, you should raise it as a defense in your answer and then consult an attorney. Even if you can't afford to have an attorney represent you for the entire case, you may be able to pay a smaller fee for a legal opinion on the statute of limitations issue.
 You may have other defenses created by state law or court rules that reduce or eliminate your legal obligation to pay the collection agency.


Because you're raising an affirmative defense based on facts outside the complaint, you have the burden of proof. However, you should raise as many as you think might apply to your case in your answer so as to preserve them.Raising an affirmative defense in your answer doesn't mean you have to argue it at trial, and the law requires you to raise certain affirmative defenses in the first document you file with the court – otherwise they're considered waived., You may be able to find forms and instructions for answering a debt collection lawsuit that are pre-approved by the court in which the lawsuit was filed.


Some states require the collection agency to include an answer form with the complaint and summons. Even if you don't live in one of those states, you may be able to find a form you can use by contacting the office of the clerk of court or visiting the court's website.Legal aid services or consumer protection agencies also may have forms and instructions available, as well as information on how to respond to a lawsuit from a collection agency.
 If you haven't found a form you can fill out, you'll have to create an answer from scratch.Copy the caption from the complaint, including the court, case name, and file number. Use the same formatting as was used in the complaint.
State your name and that you are answering the complaint filed against you, then respond to each allegation using the same paragraph numbers as the complaint.
When you respond to each allegation, you have the option of saying you admit the allegation, deny the allegation, or don't have enough knowledge or information about it to either admit or deny it. If you say you lack knowledge, this has the same effect as a denial.Make sure you respond to every allegation, because if you skip any the court will consider that an admission.After you've responded to the allegations in the complaint, list any affirmative defenses you believe apply to your case.Provide a space for your signature and type your name along with your address and any other contact information you want to include such as your phone number or email address.Before you sign your answer, find out if you have to have it notarized. If the court requires a verified answer, you must wait and sign it in front of a notary public.After you've signed your complaint, make a copy to send to the collection agency and another copy for your records. The clerk will keep the originals when you file., You must deliver a copy of your answer to the collection agency in a certain way so you can prove to the court that it was delivered.


You also must fill out a certificate of service and file it with your answer. This tells the court how you're having the answer served.You can use the sheriff's department to serve the answer personally, but you typically can use certified mail. Keep your copy of the returned receipt because this acts as proof of service., You must file your answer with the clerk of the court where the lawsuit was filed before the deadline listed on your summons.


Some courts may require other forms in addition to the answer. You can ask the clerk if you need anything else when you file your answer.ref>http://www.washingtonlawhelp.org/resource/how-to-answer-a-lawsuit-for-debt-collection?ref=7vRmt</ref>
You can take your answer to the clerk's office to file it in person, or in some jurisdictions you can simply mail it. Double-check your summons to see if there's a time limit for filing your answer. Some courts require you to file it within a few days of having it served on the collection agency., Once you've filed your answer, the collection agency may contact you in an attempt to settle the case. Otherwise, you will have to go to court and appear before a judge to defend against the lawsuit.


The clerk typically will assign a trial date when you file your answer, but you may get notice of the date later. Mark it on your calendar and contact the court immediately if you aren't going to be able to appear on that day.If you don't show up in court, the judge may rule in the collection agency's favor and enter a default judgment against you. The collection agency then can enforce the judgment by requesting a writ to garnish your wages.