 If you have another job lined up, losing the income from your current job will not be an issue. However, if you are resigning without other employment lined up, you will have to find a way to cover your living expenses. How will you pay for your standard of living without the current income from your job? If this is a conundrum, it might be best to stick it out a while longer.


If you will need to rely on a new job's income, make sure that you have already clarified the details of your new job. This includes a signed contract or offer letter and a defined start date.Remember that your employee might owe you money from unpaid wages, unreimbursed expenses, and balances in your health insurance, life insurance, or company benefits plans. Figure these amounts into your financial planning.;
, The immediate problem of post-job health insurance coverage is one that troubles many individuals and families. As health care becomes more expensive, many rely on their employers to help pay premiums. Of course, this problem is particular to countries without a public health system, where a broader distribution of healthcare gives individuals more freedom to choose their work opportunities.


If you are moving to a position with fewer health benefits, go ahead and get procedures done while you are still on your current employer's insurance., There probably aren't any overriding issues in your job contract. However, reading over it before resigning will help you figure out if any of the fine print issues included in this agreement will impact your decision at all. Look for contract clauses or non-compete agreements that will affect future employment prospects.
 When you resign from your current position, where will you go? Are you taking time away from work or moving on to a new position as soon as possible? Ideally, you should have an offer in place for a new position when you resign. If you don't, you'll need to consider your options for finding employment. Figure out your present employer's policy on references for future employment, as you'll likely need them to find a new job.
 Resigning in person is always the best and most respectful way to quit a job. However, in some cases doing so is not feasible. If your boss works far away, is away from the office for a long period of time, or has never met with you in person, a phone call is a perfectly acceptable method of resigning. You should always resign by phone rather than resigning by email. If time is a constraint, choose notifying your employer by phone immediately over doing it in person and not providing adequate notice., There's no point in embarrassing yourself with an overemotional appeal, or inflaming feelings at the head office. When you've decided you want to resign over the phone, pull yourself together and make an effort to do this politely. You'll often find you have a better chance of an amicable solution to your problems if you do this. Try to frame your decision to leave in a positive light, even if you are leaving for decidedly negative reasons. For example, try focusing on the opportunity afforded by your new position.Try calming yourself down with a couple of deep breaths. If that doesn't work, talk into a mirror to reassure yourself that you're making the right decision in leaving this role.
 When it's time to pick up the phone, you'll want to effectively reach someone with authority to make your resignation effective. You can try the human resources department directly, or call up your direct supervisor or manager. If your manager cannot be reached, try reaching out to their direct supervisor. Even if your resignation will be handled by HR, always let your own manager know first. This will give them adequate time to prepare for your absence., The standard throughout most of the working world is giving two weeks notice for resigning from a position. However, this will vary by employer and position. For example, some positions may require that you cease your duties immediately after tendering your resignation. This is usually to protect sensitive information. However, if no guidance as to resignation timing is provided, follow the two week rule.


Be very clear about the date of your final day., When talking to your boss, open by clearly stating your intentions. A good, standard way to phrase this is, "I offer my resignation effective ." If it helps, soften by the blow by saying something like, "I understand this may not be the best time, but..." or "I appreciate the experience I have had here" or "This was a difficult decision for me." Allow your boss to negotiate with you about your specific departure date, unless you are starting your new job immediately after., Leave on a good note by speaking kindly of your time in the position you are leaving. Don't burn bridges; it costs you nothing and you will reap benefits down the road. Talk about how you have developed professionally during your time there. Then, provide your manager with a reason as to why you are leaving, whether it is due to disagreements with the employer or if you are leaving to take a better position elsewhere. However, be as polite and objective as possible.


If possible, limit the specifics that you provide about your new position or future plans. You can tell your manager or coworkers about it in casual conversation at a later date, if you wish.Some good examples of an explanation as to why you are quitting include:

"I need to move on with my career and have found a promising next step."
"are a better fit to where I want to be professionally."
"I am happy here but the other employer made me an even better offer."
"It is an offer than I cannot refuse.", You may be required to provide a resignation letter in addition to your resignation by phone. However, you don't need to write anything complex. You can write a detailed resignation letter if you wish, but most employers don't require a long one if they require one at all. All that you will likely need to provide is a statement that says that you are resigning and an effective date. You usually don't even need to include a reason for leaving.


Check for company requirements for resignation to make sure that you are following them., Transfer over all purely-personal files on your company phone, tablet, and/or computer, if you have them. Odds are, the company will take these from you and wipe them clean when or soon after you announce your resignation. Make sure to get personal files off of them or back them up online beforehand. Just make sure not to copy any files that contain proprietary company information, including customer or prospect lists. This could subject you to criminal penalties., Work with HR to figure out how you can move your 401(k) or 403(b) over to a new employer. You'll need to figure out exactly how to transfer retirement funds on both sides, and complete all requirements for doing so, before switching to your new position. Make sure to take special care so that everything goes smoothly, because you don't want to lose your retirement fund.Other benefits issues to settle might include life and health insurance, purchase of a company car or other assets, and payment for unused vacation time, among others.
Work with HR to ensure that you are duly compensated for these benefits or that they are transferred to your new employer.
 Find a good time to clean your personal items out of your office. If you are asked to leave immediately, you may have little time to do this. Otherwise, you will likely have time to go back to your office, perhaps several times, to get your possessions out. Be sure to leave your workspace clean for the next occupant., If another employee will be trained to fill your role when you leave, be ready to assist in transitioning that person into your role. This may include giving advice, training them, or transferring over relevant documents. Leave any in-process projects and related document well-organized so that your successor can easily pick up where you left off., Continue to fulfill your objectives as normal, or even work harder, up until the last minute of your last day at your current job. This shows your employer that you are still a dedicated employee. After all, who knows when you might need a reference for a future position? Show your current employer that you are a hard worker to earn their respect and a glowing reference if you ever need one., During your exit interview, pay attention to the information presented to you. In many instances, the employee in charge of your exit information will give you specific information on the company's rules regarding information you can give potential employers about your work. Note any confidentiality agreements or limitations on referral letters, recommendations, or other interactions with potential employers.