 When sleeping, shifting your weight to the side can help alleviate symptoms of swelling. Your inferior vena cava is a large vein that helps with blood flow throughout the body. Sleeping on your side can take pressure off this vein. This can help encourage blood flow and prevent swelling. It also might help to elevate your legs slightly when you sleep., Salt and caffeine can encourage swelling during pregnancy. They can also lead to other health issues, like high blood pressure, that could have a negative impact on your overall pregnancy.


Minimize your overall salt intake. This can be achieved fairly easily by avoiding processed food and not adding additional table salt to your meals. Salt can cause water retention and raise blood pressure and elevated blood pressure during pregnancy can lead to a number of health effects for you and your baby.The effect on caffeine in pregnancy is not yet fully understood as many studies are inconclusive or produce conflicting results. However, it is advised pregnant women not consume more than 200 mg of caffeine a day. This is equal to about one 12 ounce cup of coffee. Be aware caffeine is also in teas, chocolates, and some over-the-counter medications. Always read labels to watch for caffeine. If you're experiencing swelling, however, you might want to reduce your caffeine intake further and see if it helps., Water intake can help reduce water retention, which can have a positive effect on reducing swelling overall. If you're pregnant, it's recommended you drink 10 cups, or 2.3 liters, of water each day. Doing so may help with swelling., Sitting too long in a car or airplane can cause discomfort and swelling even if you're not pregnant. The effects are more intense during pregnancy. Try to take frequent breaks when traveling to get up and walk around periodically if you travel during pregnancy., Strive to stay physically active throughout pregnancy to reduce swelling and have a healthy pregnancy overall. Talk to your healthcare provider about what workout routines are safe for you and your baby.


Exercise to the legs is particularly important to reduce swelling. Walking during pregnancy is usually a healthy, safe activity that does not negatively affect most pregnant women.Discuss other activities you might want to engage in with your doctor. Some mild Pilates, yoga, and aerobics might be okay at certain stages of pregnancy depending on your fitness level, overall health, and pregnancy., Warm weather can make swelling during pregnancy worse as it may lead to increased dehydration and water retention. If you live in a warm area, you should make sure you have access to air conditioning during your pregnancy, especially if you're pregnant over the summer months. Stay indoors if it gets too hot or make a trip to the pool or beach.