 Begin by using either rope or cording that extends past the back of the knees when held up to your waist. Make sure at least a three- to four-inch portion of the rope or cording is reserved. This will be used to make the loop for the belt.;
, Once this has been completed, you can start making the actual tail.
 Using your wrists tightly and firmly twist and turn the stick pulling and wrapping the wire to the stick.

Create just enough tension to keep the wire straight and neatly wrapped around the stick to turn the wire into a spring.


Insert the piece of rope through the center of the wire spring. This will make your tail stay erect and flexible.


Purchase yarn in whatever colors you like. For the best effect, the colors should match your costume.






Cut a six-inch strip of yarn, and then cut that strip in half.






Take both strips, and starting about an inch or so from the bottom, tie both strips onto the rope or cording (they should be right next to each other on the rope or cording).






Repeat these steps, but twirl the rope around as you go to ensure the yarn is distributed evenly all the way around the rope or cording. You will inevitably notice gaps in your tail.






Cut some more lengths of yarn. For these, do not tie the yarn around the rope or cording. Instead, knot the two halves of the strips of yarn and super glue them where you see gaps.
 Fold over the length of rope or cording that you had marked off, and either tape, superglue, or tie it tightly with yarn to make a loop. Make sure it's secure and won't come undone.
 This will be used as the base connection of the tail to your belt.


Drill or punch a hole wide enough to fit the end of the tail's wire through the center of your tail base. Wrap and secure the 6 inch wire end to the belt and round base.
Cut a strip of rubber cabinet liner or plastic tape around the base and the wire to cover any sharp edge of wire and add extra strength to hold the tail securely.
 Cutting and gluing or stitching strips of soft and fluffy fabric around the diameter and length of the tail can make the tail look like real cat fur.

