 If you have constipation, you may be uncomfortable and even in pain. Massaging your abdomen can not only help relieve constipation, but has additional benefits. These include:Minimizing the need for long-term laxative use
Relieving gas
Reducing the likelihood that you’ll need medical attention for constipation
Relaxing you and your muscles, which may ease your bowels.;
, You may want to lie down to perform your abdominal massage. This can help further relax you and may be easier than standing. Give yourself at least 30 minutes to get comfy and perform your massage. Rushing may cause you further stress, which can prevent you from relieving your constipation.Massage yourself in a comfortable and quiet environment such as your bedroom. Turn down any lights and keep noise to minimum to help further relax you.
Consider lying in a warm bath. The warm water aids relaxation, which can help relieve your constipation., Your intestinal tract is between your hip bones in your lower abdomen. You can massage your belly in any motion or pattern you wish. However, using circular motions may better relieve your constipation.


Use the tips of your index fingers to massage the small intestines in clockwise, circular motions around the navel. Repeat a rotation of these circles 3 to 5 times.
 This will encourage the movement of your waste down into your bowels. Continue the sequence with the following motions:


Stroke your abdomen from the left side to the right
Vibrate your hands and fingers on your navel area
Perform a circular movement with one hand just below your navel and then quickly make another circle with the other hand
With one hand over the other, continuously repeat the motion counter-clockwise
Use your fingertips to massage in small circular motions
Move from the sides of your abdomen inward and downward

, You need to massage your abdomen between 10 and 20 minutes to stimulate your intestines. Continue the sequence of motions for 10-20 minutes and stop. Take a break and assess if you need to move your bowels. If not, try another massage or wait until later in the day.Avoid stroking or pressing too hard. This may compact fecal matter and make it more difficult to evacuate your bowels.Continue to use daily abdominal massage for constipation, even if you need to use another method to relieve yourself. Performing abdominal massage on a daily basis may prevent further bouts of constipation or gas.
 Moving your legs towards your belly can compress parts of the intestinal tract. Consider alternating each knee towards your belly or to the side as you massage your abdomen. This may further stimulate your intestine and relieve your constipation., You may need to evacuate your bowels during your massage. If this happens, don’t wait or ignore the urge. Get yourself to the bathroom and give yourself time to poop.Not doing so can lead to:


Hardening of stools
Straining
Hemorrhoids
Pain, Constipation is often related to dehydration in your colon. Drinking 8 ounces of water 8 times a day to equal 2 liters may rehydrate you and relieve your constipation.Drink tap or bottled water. Avoid carbonated and flavored waters, both of which may make gas and bloating worse., If water doesn’t relieve your constipation, consider switching to fruit juice. Drink 2-4 ounces (60 to 120 milliliters) of prune or apple juice with your meals. You may need to drink more if you don’t notice a difference.Mix one part juice and one part water if the juice is too intense for you or your taste buds. You can also drink the juice over ice if you like., In addition to drinking water and/or fruit juice, eat foods high in fiber. This can loosen your stools and stimulate your bowels. Aim to eat 14 grams of fiber for every 1,000 calories you consume.Some foods high in fiber that may relieve your constipation, especially when combined with massage are:Peas
Prunes
Pears
Plums
Peaches
Broccoli
Beans
Brussels sprouts
Flaxseeds
Carrots
Pineapple
Whole grains
Bran flakes

, Movement and physical activity can stimulate your intestines. Do some low-impact exercise to help relieve your constipation. Consider combining it with your abdominal massage to ease your constipation more quickly.Recognize that any type of movement or exercise is good for relieving constipation. However, exercises with only a slight impact are best. Consider running, walking, biking, and swimming. Doing yoga may also relieve constipation.Get as much movement as you are able. Even 15 minutes of exercise can help stimulate your bowels., There are differing opinions on using natural oils, laxatives, and enemas to treat constipation. They can cause chronic constipation, injure the muscles of your colon and anus, and create dependence on laxatives to move your bowels. Ask your doctor if any of these treatments are suitable and safe for you., A home remedy used for generations, castor oil acts as a natural laxative. It breaks down into a substance that stimulates the intestines, which may relieve your constipation. Combining castor oil with massage may provide even quicker relief.Take 1-2 teaspoons of castor oil on an empty stomach. This should make you poop within 8 hours.
Mix castor oil with a sweetener such as orange juice. This can cut down on its bad taste.Avoid taking more castor oil than the recommended dose. Doing so may lead to overdose. Symptoms of a castor oil overdose include: abdominal cramps, chest pain, dizziness, hallucinations, diarrhea, shortness of breath, skin rash, and throat tightness. If you experience any of these symptoms, call the national toll-free Poison Help hotline at 1-800-222-1222 if you are in the United States. A representative will give you further instructions on what to do., Adding fiber supplements to your diet may help further boost the effects of abdominal massage. Psyllium husks are very fine flakes of psyllium bran. These fiber supplements can soften stools. Consider adding psyllium husks, sold under names such as Metamucil, FiberCon, and Citrucel, to your diet to relieve your constipation.Get psyllium husk at natural food or nutrition stores.
Mix ½ teaspoon psyllium husk with 8 ounces of water. You can do this in the morning or the evening. Increase the dosage only if you need to.Add psyllium husks to a fruit smoothie if you prefer. The fruit may also boost the benefits of both the psyllium husks and abdominal massage.
 Flaxseeds as well as flaxseed oil and meal can help relieve your constipation. They may also replace any nutrients you are losing because of the condition. Add flaxseed products to your meals throughout the day to stimulate your intestines. Avoid getting more than 50 grams (or 5 tablespoons) of whole flaxseed per day.You can get flaxseed by:


Adding a tablespoon of ground flaxseed to hot or cold breakfast cereals
Mixing one teaspoon ground flaxseed in mayonnaise or mustard for a sandwich
Stirring one teaspoon ground flaxseed into 8 ounces of yogurt
Use ground flaxseed in baked goods including cookies, muffins, and breads

