 Before you begin designing your trust, you need information about all of your assets, including documentation for any titled property and deeds for real estate.Make a list of all the property and assets you own that you want to be distributed through the trust. For real estate and other titled property, you'll want to go ahead and gather all the applicable ownership documents since you'll have to transfer title once your trust instrument is complete.
Don't worry about including retirement or investment accounts if you've already named a beneficiary for that account, as listing someone as a beneficiary in your trust can cause confusion – especially if you inadvertently list two different people.
You'll also want to make a list of the people you intend to list as beneficiaries in your trust, and which portions of your property you want distributed to them.
You may want to consider alternate or back-up beneficiaries in case the person you name is unavailable or refuses to take the trust property.
With significant property such as real estate, you probably want to talk to the person you intend to inherit the property before you name them as a beneficiary.;
, While you can find forms online to create a revocable living trust on your own, working with an experienced estate-planning attorney is the best way to ensure that your revocable living trust instrument is legally valid in your state.Online preparation services or printed guides typically cost under $100. However, attorney's fees probably will be more than $1,000.
However, if you have significant assets or complex ownership, it's worth the investment to make sure your documents are prepared correctly and will be enforceable.
An experienced attorney licensed in your state also has an understanding of your particular state's requirements. While generic forms and templates typically are sufficient, some states have specific requirements, particularly for trusts that hold significant real estate or are intended to distribute assets located in other states or overseas.
 The first lines of your trust should state the type of trust you're creating. Give it a name and provide your full legal name and place of residence. A revocable living trust is one for which you will serve as trustee while you are alive, and that you reserve the right to revoke during your life.You don't have to create any sort of fancy name for your trust. Just use your name and identify the type of trust you're creating.
For example, the name of your trust might be "The Roberta Blue Revocable Living Trust."

, With a living trust, you are considered the trustee during your life. However, after your death you must name someone who will take over as trustee and distribute your property to the beneficiaries according to the terms and conditions in the trust.A successor trustee has many of the same functions and responsibilities that an executor of a will would have. Typically you want to choose someone with whom you have a close relationship and who you trust to manage and distribute your property.
Talk to the person you have in mind before you draft your trust instrument to make sure they're up for the job. If you've chosen an older person, you may want to consider adding a back-up in case they are predeceased or incapable of fulfilling the role.
After naming your successor trustee, your trust instrument will outline the responsibilities that you and that person will have as trustees. If you're using a form or template, much of this language will already be included for you as boilerplate, as it's fairly standard across the country.
Before you include information about the responsibilities of the trustee, make sure you've read and understand the language you're using.
 The people who will inherit all the assets placed in the trust after you die are considered your beneficiaries. You can provide specific assets that are to be transferred to specific people, or provide names of people you wish to inherit all of your property.Use the information you've already gathered about your estate to decide how you want the property divided.
If you're using a separate schedule of property, you still have the ability to list specific assets, such as a primary or vacation home, that you want a specific person to inherit.
As far as personal property, you can divide it specifically or you can provide that each beneficiary will take a certain percentage of it.
 The easiest way to leave property in trust is to create a separate list of property and assets included in the trust that you can attach to your declaration of trust. You'll be able to amend this document later without having to execute a new trust.


Keep in mind that for any property transferred to the trust, you must change that property's ownership documents to reflect that it is being held in trust.The schedule means you can change the assets held in your trust whenever you want. With a living trust, you generally have the ability to amend or revoke it at any time, but the schedule means you don't have to revise the whole document, which can lead to confusion.
If you acquire new property that you want to include in the trust, all you have to do is add it to your schedule of property – and make sure the trust is reflected in the ownership documents for that property.
 Particularly for a pour-over will, which is a relatively simple document, you may be able to find forms or templates online so that you can draft the document yourself without incurring additional legal fees.Some estate planning attorneys will automatically draft a pour-over will for you at your request when they draft your revocable living trust. If you hired an attorney to draft your trust instrument, ask if a pour-over will is included.
Many online legal document services have pour-over wills available that are drafted according to the requirements of your state's law.
Some state bar associations also offer templates you can use.
 The title of your will should identify it as a pour-over will and include your full legal name. If you want, you can also include the name of your trust in the title of your will, but this typically isn't necessary.After the title, your will opens with a brief introductory paragraph that indicates you are of sound mind and body and are creating this will. The language in this paragraph is pretty standard boilerplate that you can copy from a form or template.
In most states, you also must name an executor in the opening paragraphs of your will. The executor won't have much to do apart from registering your will with probate after death.
However, the executor will be responsible for gathering your assets and making sure they are transferred to the trust, which may involve changing ownership documents.
 After a basic introductory paragraph, your will simply directs the probate court that any assets remaining after your death that weren't already included in the trust should be moved into the trust.


You can direct all assets and personal effects be transferred to your trust to be distributed among your beneficiaries, or you may bequeath some assets directly through your will and pour-over the remainder of your real and personal property.
If you intend to bequeath assets directly through your will, make sure you use the right language so that the bequest will have legal effect. You also want to make sure the asset you're trying to bequeath through your will isn't already held by the trust.
Keep in mind that your pour-over will and your trust instrument should work together, not conflict with each other.
 If you have children under the age of 18, you may want to use your pour-over will to name guardians for those children in the event you die before they reach adulthood. Guardians cannot be named through a trust instrument.Keep in mind that if you fail to nominate a guardian for your minor children, this matter will be resolved by the probate judge after your death.
While close family members typically are preferred, the person who ends up raising your children may not be the person you want.
You can eliminate this disappointment as well as uncertainty by naming a guardian in your pour-over will.
You also may want to consider adding a back-up or alternate guardian in the event the person you first named is unavailable or is no longer capable of taking on the responsibility.
Make sure you talk the situation over with the person you want to name before you list them as the guardian in your pour-over will, as this is a tremendous responsibility and they wouldn't want to be caught by surprise.
 Each state requires different formalities related to signing estate documents so they will be legally binding. Although there are similarities, you want to make sure you're following the law of the state where you live.Neither your will nor your trust will be valid if they aren't executed properly. The execution formalities exist so your surviving family can be confident that you created and signed the will, and that you did so of your own volition while you were of sound mind and body.
Ignoring or taking shortcuts on the formalities can result in challenges to your will in probate by a disgruntled family member.
The execution requirements for a trust document typically are somewhat less formal than those for a will. Keep in mind that a pour-over will must follow the same formalities as a regular will.
 Most states require you to sign a will or trust instrument in the presence of at least two witnesses. These people don't have to read or understand the document, and shouldn't be anyone who is closely related to you or listed as a beneficiary of your trust.Some states require that both or at least one of the witnesses be a resident of the state in which the will is being executed.
Anyone who has an interest in your estate can be present at the signing ceremony, but they should not sign your will as a witness. Otherwise disgruntled family members may challenge the will or the trust instrument by arguing that they had undue influence or forced you to sign the document.
Typically witnesses must be individuals over the age of 18.
 In addition to witnesses, you may be required to sign your will and trust documents in the presence of a notary public. The notary merely verifies the identity of you and your witnesses and adds an extra layer of protection should the will or trust be challenged.Your state law also may require your witnesses to sign an affidavit that identifies them and their state of residence and describes that they saw you sign the will and that you were competent to do so.
If you have an attorney who assisted you in drafting the documents, they may also sign an affidavit indicating that they observed the signing ceremony and that the formalities complied with state law.
Even if the will itself does not have to be notarized, any witness affidavits must be witnessed, signed, and sealed by a notary public.
 Once your trust instrument and your pour-over will have been signed according to the formalities of your state's law, make arrangements for the originals to be stored in a safe place, such as with an attorney.Although of course you can always store your original documents at home, in your own safe, typically you want them to be held elsewhere so they can easily be located at your death.
If you want to keep your will in a safe deposit box at a bank, or with an attorney. Check your state's law. Some states require the executor of your will to have control over the safe deposit box or be in contact with the attorney.
Regardless of how your store your originals, you should make several copies and distribute them to key people, including your executor, your successor trustee, and key beneficiaries.
 After executing your trust, it still isn't finalized until you actually change the names on any ownership documents of property you are holding in the trust into the name of the trust.Even though you technically continue to own and possess the property, you'll add language to the ownership documents, such as the deed for real estate, to indicate that you are holding it in trust.
In the case of real estate, you typically have to execute a new deed that includes trustee language, using your own name as trustee and the title of the trust you created.
After you've transferred title, make sure you add the word "trustee" after your name when you sign any documents related to the property.

