 It should be something you do not have prior knowledge of. For this example experiment, it's about learning how to do first aid.;
, For example, your goal could be to create three artifacts that would help you if you were to be learning first aid in a class as a student.
 In the end, creating these genres will help you learn in a creative way. The three artifacts from a first aid equipment checklist could be: a CPR teaching PowerPoint, and a poster on how to perform first aid for incidences of choking.
 For example, the reasons for choosing the artifacts might be:


You chose to create the first aid equipment checklist because in case of emergency, it is helpful to know the name, use, and looks of each item so you can use them properly.
You chose to create a CPR PowerPoint because in case of cardiac arrest, taking a class on how to do CPR properly can save someone’s life.
You chose to create the choking poster because in case of choking, a poster hung in a classroom or eating area can help perform the maneuvers to help the person in need.
, Since this example is about the role of a student, the artifacts exist so that someone of the student's age and expertise level could understand how to perform basic first aid. The first aid kit equipment list could be viewed as a lesson plan in a classroom, the CPR PowerPoint could also be viewed as a lesson, and the choking poster might be found in a first aid classroom to remind students on the steps involved.



The first aid kit helps to identify what you would need to use in a variety of situations, and looking up the pictures of each item helps you to put an image to a name.
The CPR PowerPoint helps you to learn more about how to perform it, since it goes through the steps and helps you to visualize how to complete it with the pictures. However, it would be nice to learn more through actually practicing it on a mannequin.
The choking poster helps in the same manner, providing you with steps and visual aids. It can also be helpful if you have some antecedent knowledge on choking.


Since you have to research about each topic prior, it will help you to learn and put my knowledge to the test when you create the genres.
 Everyone’s learning style is slightly different, whether you’re a visual, kinesthetic, auditory learner, or a mix of these combinations. For example, if you're a visual learner, you'd add a picture for each item of the equipment list, and add visuals to the steps in the CPR and choking artifacts. In your research process, you'd look up YouTube videos to understand the steps of CPR and choking first aid. Without this, reading text online about each step would not be sufficient. If you have time, you could also practice kinesthetically, by taking a class in first aid.
 When creating genre artifacts, you will sometimes have more expertise in one genre than another, and is important to evaluate each one. This prior knowledge is commonly referred to as antecedent knowledge. For your equipment checklist, if you have only seen a checklist before, but never created one, you'd need to do a bit of researching and playing with a few different formats in Microsoft Word in order to create it the way you want. On the other hand, if you create PowerPoint on a daily basis in your classes, and have created them for projects in previous classes, you'll find them easy.
 Conventions of a genre include how a genre is created, how it’s distributed, who writes it, who the audience is, the writing style, where it can be found, and more. In the next two steps you will analyze two out of the three genre artifacts created, the first aid kit equipment checklist and the CPR PowerPoint.
 The equipment list influences those who read it by helping its reader understand what is necessary to have in their kit, and can help them understand how to use the items properly. The PowerPoint influences students by showing them the steps, in hopes that they will take the knowledge of CPR that they learned and apply it to real life situations.
 Equipment checklists probably developed as just a list of items, offering its reader a chance to know what goes into creating something, or parts that are necessary for something to function. Check boxes were probably introduced to help the reader identify which aspects they had, and those that they needed. You can add in the function and pictures, which would help the reader even further to understand how to use the items they had.


PowerPoints help the reader because they are an efficient way of getting information across, especially in a classroom setting. The pictures and visual appeal help to draw the reader in. Antecedent genres of PowerPoints include overhead projection, which were used before new technology could allow for computer projection. Even prior to overhead projection was chalkboard usage in classrooms, but videos could assist as well.
Genres such as these are not just found in academic settings, but are also applied to everyday usage for recreation, in the home, and in the workplace. Checklists can be found in a variety of kits, to-do lists, travel necessities, timelines, and more. They serve to allow the reader to know what they need, or what they need to accomplish. PowerPoints are commonly found in academic classrooms, but can also be created for speaker presentations, business meetings, and in other informational manners. They are created to allow the audience to understand something informational, which the author wishes to present to them.
 The checklist shapes the reader’s views by showing them what is required, but it may limit information if it fails to include something that is necessary on the checklist. The audience is intended to be someone who needs to accomplish something, or someone who needs necessary parts in order for something to be functional. The PowerPoint’s audience is to be a group of people who have less information than the speaker or author, so the author intends to shape the audience’s understanding by informing them.
 At the conclusion of your experiment, it is important to evaluate how successful you were in your learning experiment. Asking the following questions to yourself will help you reflect on whether or not you accomplished your goal, and if you accomplished it in the manner that you hoped to.


The first question that you need to ask yourself is if you were successful overall. For example, learning just through the internet may not be enough for you, and in order to completely understand how to do complete the topics you did, you would have to experience them first hand. However, if you were learning first aid in real life, these artifacts would have helped tremendously, but only if you had hands-on experience as well, and a more experienced person to guide you. These topics are extremely serious and if you were performing them incorrectly, it could be a matter of life or death for the person you were attempting to help.
 Did you stay in your comfort zone or did you decide to branch out with your technique? For example, did you stay within your comfort zone for the project, using genres that you have encountered before? Or did you use genres that would be out of your comfort zone, such as a video or some sort of how-to manual? If you believe that the artifacts and methods that you chose accurately reflected how to perform your goal of first aid, then you would be happy with the choices that you made.
 Are you happy with the choices that you made for your genres, or would you have chosen an additional or different genre?

, This is a longer method of learning how to do something, but by putting your research to the test by creating various artifacts, you will learn so much more. Good luck with your learning!