 Most maternity models have done some modeling prior to their pregnancies.


Collect any tear sheets or put together a portfolio of any modeling work you have done in your past. This can include professional and amateur work. If you posed for a picture that was used in an advertisement or on a website, that counts.;
, Make sure you are healthy enough to work throughout your pregnancy.


Get a note from your doctor or midwife, clearing you for modeling work. This may not be necessary, but it is a good idea and will put potential modeling agents and companies that hire you at ease.
 In order to get work as a maternity model, you will need photos of your face and body.


Look for a photographer in your area who has taken head shots and put together portfolios for models in the past.
Remember that you will need digital photos as well as printed pictures.
Continue having pictures taken throughout your pregnancy. Many advertisers will want models who have a visible and round pregnant belly, but maternity models are needed at all stages of pregnancy. Keep all of your photos current.
 There are modeling agencies that specialize in pregnant and maternity models. Expecting Models is one such agency. Most agencies will be based in New York, Los Angeles or other major cities.
 They can keep your information on file in case a client needs a maternity model.
 Let them know what your due date is so your booking agent can schedule appropriate appearances and jobs.
 The requirements for maternity models are the same as those for models who are not pregnant. Clients want clear skin, lean and tall bodies. Most models are at least 5 feet (1.5 m) 9 inches (178 cm) tall.



Keep your hair clean and styled. Make sure your nails are trimmed and polished. Your eyebrows should be waxed and plucked and your skin smooth and clear of blemishes, pimples or dark circles.
 It is hard to imagine yourself as a maternity model if you spend your days in sweatpants and t-shirts.


Wear clothing that flatters your pregnant figure and shows off the parts of your body that are not affected by pregnancy.
 An agent or photographer could call you and request photos or an interview at a moment's notice. Make sure you are ready.
 Sites such as Model Mayhem have databases where maternity models looking for work can post pictures and the type of modeling they are willing to do.

