 Wear sunglasses and a wide-brimmed hat if you need to be outside. Choose sunglasses that are polarized to reduce eyestrain from glare sensitivity. They should also have an ultraviolet element to protect your eyes from UVA and UVB rays.These rays can cause cataracts, with UVB rays also potentially leading to macular degeneration.You should also try to stay indoors between the hours of 11am and 3pm.If you're getting total radiation body treatments (like those used for cancer treatments), you also need to protect your eyes. Wear goggles or other eye protective shields recommended by your doctor.;
, Sit at least a foot away from your computer or television, since the screens generate a low level of radiation. While no studies have established a correlation between lit screens and cataracts, you should try to distance yourself and limit screen time. This can improve your overall vision.Reduce glare that's harsh on your eyes by closing blinds. Adjust your computer monitor so the brightest light is at a 90°angle with your monitor. Don't forget you can also adjust the brightness and contrast to decrease eye strain.Follow the 20-20-20 method. Every 20 minutes, look away from your screen to any object 20 feet away for 20 seconds. It may help to set a reminder alarm., Since you can't see cataracts with the naked eye, it's important to have your eyes checked on a regular basis. If you are 40 or older, it's incredibly important that you go in for regular eye exams with your eye doctor. If you're between the age of 18 and 60 with no risk, get an exam every two years. If you're between the age of 18 and 60 with risks, get your eyes examined every year.If you're over 61 with no risks, you should gradually have your eyes examined every year, or more if you have risks., Smoking makes it harder for your body to repair damage since it releases free radicals into your body. The more free radicals that are in your body, the more cells are harmed which could contribute to cataract formation.You should also avoid having more than one drink a day. Studies have shown that alcohol decreases calcium stability in the lens of your eye.


Alcohol also changes the eye's protein interaction which will increase your risk of membrane damage., Studies have shown that you can prevent cataracts by eating dark, leafy green vegetables that contain antioxidants. Antioxidants, like the lutein and zeaxanthin (which are both found naturally in the retina and lens) are proven to work against cataract formation. They absorb harsh light and UV rays. If you supplement, try to get more than 6 mg of lutein and zeaxanthin a day. Good sources of antioxidants include:Kale
Spinach
Collard greens
Turnip greens
Dandelion greens
Mustard greens
Beet greens
Radicchio
Summer and winter squash

, Medical studies recommend that you get vitamin C from your diet, rather than from supplements.While supplements can help prevent cataracts, you'd need to take them for nearly ten years before noticing any of the health benefits.If you choose to supplement, follow the recommended daily allowance (90 mg for men, 75 mg for women, 35 mg for smokers). Instead, eat the following fruits and vegetables:Cantaloupe
Cauliflower
Grapes
Lychees
Squash
Broccoli
Guava
Bell peppers
Oranges
Strawberries

, Try to get your vitamins from a diet full of fruits and vegetables of a variety of colors. This variety will contain plant chemicals (phytochemicals) that can keep you in good health. If you supplement, follow the recommended daily allowance (22 IU for men or 33 IU for women). Or, get vitamin E from the following:Spinach
Almonds
Sunflower seeds
Wheat germ
Peanut butter
Collard greens
Avocados
Mango
Hazelnuts
Swiss chard

, Get regular exercise, at least 150 minutes a week. Break your exercise into manageable chunks of time to get the same health benefits.Moderate exercise or vigorous walking has also been shown to lower the risk of cataracts.According to medical studies, the more rigorous the exercise, the more your risk of cataracts is reduced.Cataracts is strongly linked to diabetes. Being overweight or obese can increase your risk of diabetes, so maintain a healthy weight.
 Cataracts are common in old age and can happen in one or both eyes. Talk to your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:Blurry vision
Colors that seem faded
Difficulty reading and driving
Glaring of vision (when you see halos around lights)
Poor vision at night
Double vision
Frequent prescription changes in eye wear

, To check for cataracts, your eye doctor will perform a regular eye exam along with a few additional tests.For instance, your doctor may do a slit lamp exam. This uses high-intensity light magnification to see the lens and other parts located behind the eye. Your eye doctor will be able to tell if there's any trouble with light passing through your eye because of cataracts.


Your eye doctor will probably dilate your eye to enlarge the pupil. Eye drops are given and once your pupils dilate, the doctor will look be able to see more of your actual eye to diagnose any problems.
 Not all cataracts are the same, although cloudy visual disturbance is a general symptom. Cataracts are placed into four categories depending on their location, symptoms, and degree of vision changes. Types of cataracts include:


Nuclear cataracts: These affect the center of the eye. At first, they can cause nearsightedness, but eventually the lens becomes yellow or brown. A main symptom is the inability to distinguish between colors.
Cortical cataracts: These affect the edge of the lens. Whitish wedge-shaped opacities or streaks can extend to the center on lens and interfere with light. This means patients usually experience problems with glare.
Posterior subcapsular cataracts: These begin with small or opaque areas that usually form in the back of the lens. Patients suffer from reading disturbances and sensitivity to bright light. Another symptom is seeing halos around bright lights, especially at night.
Congenital cataracts: These cataracts form before birth, usually because of an infection the mother has at birth (such as rubella, Lowe syndrome, galactosemia, or muscular dystrophy).Pediatricians will check for the cataracts shortly after birth. If they block the central visual axis, the cataracts will need to be removed to prevent amblyopia (lazy eye). If the cataracts are small or off axis, surgery may not be necessary. Instead, the doctor may simply observe them.
 Some medical conditions or factors may mean you're predisposed for cataracts. For instance, Diabetes (type 2) can prevent you from metabolizing carbohydrates. Since the development of cataracts is related to hyperglycemia, diabetes are known to get cataracts faster.African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and women are especially at risk.In addition, the following are risk factors for cataracts:Increasing age
Drinking excessive amounts of alcohol or smoking
Excessive exposure to sunlight
Exposure to ionizing radiation (such as that used in X-rays and cancer radiation therapy) or toxins
Family history of ocular (eye) disease such as cataracts, glaucoma, or macular degeneration
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Obesity
History of eye injury or inflammationHistory of eye surgery
Working in occupations that are highly demanding visually or hazardous to your eyes
Taking prescription or nonprescription drugs with ocular side effects like corticosteroid medications (Steroids can generate steroid cataracts and antipsychotics have also been linked to cataracts.)Wearing contact lenses
German measles while you were in the womb

, Since cataracts continuously cause your eyes to deteriorate, it's important to try to delay damage. Surgery is an option and delaying it will only cause reduced eyesight. To prevent cataracts from progressing further, try:Wearing stronger glasses or contact lenses
Using a magnifying glass when reading fine print
Using, strong, clear lighting
Pupil-dilating medication

, Surgery is available to remove a cataract or cloudy lens that is a result of normal aging. It's replaced with another lens and you'll usually recover in about 24 hours.Your doctor may prescribe lubricating drops and antibiotics to prevent infection after the surgery.Cataracts that cloud the outside portion of the lens may not need to be removed because the central vision is spared.After the surgery, you may feel like you have a foreign body in your eye. This is usually caused by dry eyes from the stitches or a cut nerve. In the case of a cut nerve, it will take a few months to regenerate before you stop feeling the symptoms.

