 Just because the person is blind does not mean you can look like a pig. Ladies, wear heels. The blind person will be able to tell you're dressed nice by the clicking. Fellows, smell nice. (Intimate by David Beckham is amazing);
, If they have no vision at all, getting too close can startle them. Approach them from the front the same way you would approach a sighted person.


Don't come up behind them, or come from the front too quickly. You may startle them, or they may bump into you!

, Say "Your dog looks so friendly!" or "What a cute dog!"


Do not pet their guide dog unless you have permission. Treat it as part of their body—you wouldn't just walk over and grab somebody's foot.
 They will be pleased that you took the time to understand them.

Recognize that some blind people can actually see a little—their world may simply be very blurry or faint.
Learn how to escort them around.
 Many blind people can skillfully navigate the world without help from others.

"May I get the door for you?"
"Do you need help with the stairs?"

, Blindness may be new and confusing to you, but to them, it is an ordinary part of life. Mentioning how something looks is unlikely to cause them to burst into tears.

If you make a mistake (e.g. pointing to something before realizing they can't see), apologize once and move on. There's no need to make it into a big deal—it'll only embarrass both of you.
It's okay to use the word "see" or say "look!" to point something out. It's a part of everyday speech. Just like people in wheelchairs can "go for a walk," blind people can look for an object or see that you're hiding something.
 Blind people are disabled, but besides that, they are quite ordinary. There's no need to be nervous or treat them differently.

Most blind people are as smart as anyone else. There is no need to speak slowly or loudly. Even if they are cognitively disabled, they still deserve respect.
Avoid complimenting them on how well they walk or use their cane—they've had a long time to adjust to it. Just as it would be awkward if someone complimented you on how you walk, complimenting a blind person on their basic means of getting around will make your first impression fall flat.

