 Snakes are not very social animals. For the most part, they prefer to be left alone, and do not always enjoy the company of people or other animals. However, there are some ways that you can constructively interact with your snake.Most snakes do enjoy moving around. Make sure that you offer your pet the option to exercise.
Some larger snakes enjoy swimming. If possible, provide a small pool, such as a kiddie pool, for your snake to swim in.
Snakes also like to climb. Consider getting a climbing pole or artificial tree to place in your home.
Your snake does not need unlimited access to exercise facilities. But your pet will enjoy coming out of his cage to move around a few times a week.;
, Your snake doesn't need a lot of expensive toys to enjoy playing. One of a snake's favorite activities is curling around a long object. You can look in your yard or a local park to find a suitable material.The size of branch that you want depends on the size of your snake. Snakes like to wrap their bodies around objects.
Look for a stick or branch that is at least 1 foot long, or larger, if you have a large snake. Make sure it is sturdy enough to support your snake.
You can allow your snake to play even when you're not around. Look for a small log to place in his cage. He will enjoy winding around it.
 Snakes love this game, although they generally only participate in the hiding part. It's natural that you want to spend quality time with your pet. Just remember that you want play time to be enjoyable for the snake, too. Take care to make sure that you choose a suitable place for your recreational activities.The majority of snakes do not enjoy being around multiple people. Even though you might enjoy showing your pet off to a group of your friends, remember that is not enjoyable or comfortable for your snake.
Choose a quiet room to play with your snake. Some snakes like to play a version of "hide and seek".
If your home has a secure room, allow your snake to roam free in that room. He will likely find somewhere to hide, like behind some furniture. You can then find him.
Make sure that your snake cannot escape from the room. You don't want to lose your pet during your game.
 Snakes have personalities. They have their own likes and dislikes, just like people. Get to know your snake so that you can tell whether or not both of you are enjoying play time.Remember that most snakes don't really like to be touched. Your pet will probably most enjoy playing if he is able to do so independently.
If you are playing with your snake, pay attention to his mood. If he seems to be showing signs of discomfort, let him go back in his cage.
If your snake strikes out at you, that is meant as a warning. You should give him some space.
Hissing can also be a sign that your snake would prefer to be left alone. Respect his need for alone time.

