 You can pay your babysitter or hire a professional character to come in and face paint. If your babysitter needs instructions on how to face paint you can direct her to the wikiHow article on face painting titled “How to Face Paint a Child As a Butterfly”. This article covers the basic techniques and gives you information on the paint and supplies that you will need. Look at the pictures on this article for samples of face painting. These pretty princess pictures detail face painting that look s like jewelry hanging down from their heads.;
, Most everyone knows the story of Cinderella and how she lost her Glass Slipper. If you paint slippers on the children's feet they will not lose them but they will be easy to wash off. See the pictures on of the feet on this article.
 Most little girls also loved to have their hands painted with hearts, flowers or other designs.
 Have the little girls make finger sandwiches and cut them with cookie cutters to turn them into princess sandwiches. Have plenty of toppings such as jam, peanut butter, chicken salad, egg salad, tuna salad, etc. available to put on their finger sandwiches. If possible have a bakery make colored bread for you for the sandwiches. The colored bread adds a different unique touch to the sandwiches.
 To make fancy princess drinks cut oranges in half, remove the pulp and place in the freezer. You can put punch in the frozen orange shells and add cherries if you like. Provide straws for them to drink out of the orange halves.
 Look at the pictures of the two cakes on this site for ideas on a princess cake for your party.
 A good craft project is party masks. You can also do sand art for the girls to take home. Sand art can also be used to make rings, necklaces and bracelets. Fans are also a good craft project. Provide colored construction paper crayons for decorating and then the paper can be folded into fans.
 Did you know that King and Queens were once picked by the lines on their feet? You could have prizes for the best finger sandwich, the best costume, the best party mask, or the prettiest face painting. The idea is to have prizes for these games or what other games you decide on. Have plenty of prizes for the games. A good prize is small plastic bowls such as fishbowls filled with bubble bath crystals or small bars of bath soap. You can also wrap small candies in netting and tie it with a ribbon for a sweet prize. If you put medium-sized confetti in netting tied with a ribbon you can call it fairy dust.
 Hire a balloon artist that can do magic wands, balloon hats and other advanced balloons twisting items to provide a medieval touch to your party. This is the best place to spend your money for the party.

