 As you add new content to your Google Doc, the changes you make to the document are automatically saved to your drive. Next to the “Help” tab at the top of your screen, you will see light gray text. While you type, this text will say “Saving…”; a moment after you’ve stopped typing, the text will report that “All changes saved to Drive.”


You do not need to click a save button or use a keyboard shortcut.;
, While working on a Google Doc, you may need to export your document for use in other programs. Click on the “File” tab at the top of your screen. Hover over “Download as” and select a file type from the list. In the dialog box that appears, you may change the file’s name, add tags to the document, and determine where to save the file.


The types of files you may choose from include: Microsoft Word, Open Document Format, Rich Text Format, PDF, Plain Text, Web Page, or EPUB Publication., Occasionally, you may need to save and export your Google file in a different format. Select File > Download As. Choose an extension from the menu that appears. Once you export the document, Google Drive will not automatically sync changes made to the downloaded file. Extension options include:


.docx
.odf
.rtf
.pdf
.txt
.html, Google Drive has the capacity to publish a document directly to your website. The published document is not static, but live. When you make changes to this document, the alterations automatically appear on your website. To export the file to the web, select File > Publish to the Web > Allow Live Changes to be Made to the Document > Start Publishing.


If you want the document to remain static, you do not have to select the "Allow Live Changes to be Made to the Document" option., If your Google Drive is unable to save your document, you will receive the following notification: "Failed to save on google drive." Google Drive's inability to save your document is often a result of faulty internet connection. When this occurs, copy the contents of your document to the clipboard and reload the page. If the file is missing content, Select All and Paste the content into the document from the clipboard.


To Select All, use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl A (Windows) or ⌘ Command A (Mac).
To Copy a document, use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl C (Windows) or ⌘ Command C (Mac).
To Paste a document, use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl P (Windows) or ⌘ Command P (Mac).

