 Mathematically, the curtal sonnet is precisely 3/4 of a Petrarchan sonnet, shrunk proportionally. By experimenting with this form, you can explore how the ratio of the Petrarchan sonnet works within a more concise space. Consider whether or not you think anything changes in the relationship between the two halves of the poem when you transition from the full Petrarchan structure to the condensed curtal structure.


The curtal sonnet is composed of a sestet with a rhyme scheme of ABCABC and a quintet (five line stanza) of a rhyme scheme of either DCBDC or DBCDC.
Though it appears to be 11 lines, which is a little more than 3/4 of the normal 14-line Petrarchan sonnet, it is actually 10.5 lines; this is because the final line of the curtal sonnet is half a line of iambic pentameter — sometimes even less.
Other than the last line, the curtal sonnet is still written in iambic pentameter.
Hopkins’ “Pied Beauty” is a famous example of a curtal sonnet.Note that the final line, “Praise him” truncates the 11th line to the 3/4 proportion intended by Hopkins.
 This form, developed by John Milton, also takes the Petrarchan sonnet as its basis, and is almost identical in form to it. However, the Petrarchan sonnet treats the octave and sestet as two discrete sections separated by a turn; Milton wanted to explore what happened to the Petrarchan sonnet when you rid the poem of all separations.


A Miltonic sonnet has a Petrarchan rhyme scheme of ABBAABBACDECDE, and is written in iambic pentameter.
However, it omits the turn/volta at the beginning of the sestet, and instead emphasizes “enjambment.”
When you break a line or a stanza somewhere that is not a logical syntactic end (somewhere where you’d normally find a period, comma, or semicolon), that line or stanza is said to be enjambed.An example of an enjambed line is: “God doth not need / Either man’s works or his own gifts: who best / Bear his mild yolk, / they serve him best” (Milton, “On His Blindness”).
See Milton’s “On His Blindness” for an example of a Miltonic sonnet.Note how it makes use of enjambment both in individual lines and in the melding together of the octave and sestet.
 Whereas the curtal and Miltonic sonnets took the Petrarchan sonnet as their basis, the Spenserian sonnet, developed by Edmund Spenser, is modeled after the Shakespearean sonnet. However, it explores an interlocking rhyme scheme.


It is composed of three heroic quatrains and a heroic couplet, just like the Shakespearean sonnet. Furthermore, it is also written in iambic pentameter.
However, the rhyme scheme differs from the Shakespearean sonnet in that it is interlocking: The second rhyme sound from each quatrain becomes the first rhyme sound of the subsequent quatrain.
This results in a rhyme scheme of ABAB BCBC CDCD EE.
Contrast that against the rhyme scheme of the Shakespearean sonnet: ABAB CDCD EFEF GG.
The interlocking rhyme scheme results in the three quatrains being closely linked aurally by the repeated rhyme sounds, especially in the transition between quatrains, when the second rhyme of one stanza is immediately repeated as the first rhyme of the next.
Just as the Miltonic stanza explores the relationship between parts of the Petrarchan sonnet by using line breaks and enjambments, the Spenserian sonnet explores the relationship between parts of the Shakespearean sonnet by using interlocking rhyme patterns.
 With the exception of the curtal sonnets, all of the sonnet forms we’ve looked at thus far make use of quatrains in their first section. The terza rima sonnet, though, is written using interlocking tercets, or stanzas of three lines.It is still written using iambic pentameter, and still has 14 lines.
However, it has a rhyme scheme of ABA BCB CDC DAD AA. Note that the “A” rhyme from the opening tercet is repeated in the sandwiched ending of the fourth tercet, and also in the rhyme of the closing heroic couplet.
Even more than the Spenserian sonnet, the terza rima sonnet asks you to consider the relationship between the stanzas in the poem, as developed not only through subject, but through sound.
By splitting the first part of the poem into groups of three rather than four lines, it asks you to develop the ideas in each stanza more quickly and concisely.
An example of a terza rima sonnet is Robert Frost’s “Acquainted with the Night.”, As you can see from the variety of sonnet forms presented thus far, poets have taken liberties with the sonnet throughout its history. Though the form came to prominence with Petrarch, after whom the Petrarchan sonnet is named, it evolved greatly in the hands of British poets like Sir Thomas Wyatt, Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey, and, of course, Shakespeare, who brought the form to its greatest popularity. However, Hopkins, Milton, and Spenser felt free to change the rules of the two more established sonnet forms, and so should you. Some things you can explore might include:


Line length — what changes when you write a sonnet in iambic tetrameter (four iambic feet: ta-TUM ta-TUM ta-TUM ta-TUM) instead of iambic pentameter?
Meter — what happens when you abandon the ta-TUM rhythm of iambic meter entirely? Consider Gerard Manley Hopkins’ “Carrion Comfort,” which follows all rules of the Petrarchan sonnet except for its iambic pentameter meter.Rhyme scheme — what happens when you write the octave of a Petrarchan sonnet in heroic couplets (AA BB CC DD) instead of repeated Italian quatrains (ABBAABBA)?
Does a sonnet need to rhyme at all? Many contemporary sonnets do not. Consider Dawn Lundy’s “” as an example.