 Romance can easily become a back-burner priority after years of marriage. Make sure to save time for romantic activities, like candle-lit dinners, beach walks at sunset, and cuddling up to watch a movie.;
, One of the main aspects of marriage where the excitement can quickly fade is the sexual aspect. You'll both have to work hard to keep your sex life interesting, but thankfully there are several things that you can do.


Don't get stuck in a boring routine. If you and your hubby are used to having sex without any foreplay or wooing beforehand, sex can become just another activity that happens when you get in bed. Take the time to woo each other at spontaneous times throughout the day to avoid feeling like you have simply scheduled time for being intimate. Scheduled sex is not sexy.
Listen to your hubby's wants and needs. Know what your hubby's preferences are and what he wants to try in the bedroom. His desires may change over time. Just ask him what he likes and wants. This question in itself can be a turn on!
Try the "Forty Beads Method." This method was developed by a wife who saw the need to change things up in her relationship with her husband. The method rests on the premise that each spouse has a bowl in which the other spouse drops a bead when they want to be intimate, and the other spouse has a certain amount of time to act on the request.
 Between you and your hubby's busy schedules, it can be very hard to find time to spend with each other. Make a commitment to go on a date or make a home-cooked meal together at least once a week. Here are some date night ideas:


Go to dinner and a movie. This classic never gets old if you switch up the restaurant and the movie genre each week.
Make dinner together. Try making a dish that requires more effort than one you would make on a random weeknight. Make pizza from scratch to have fun while cooking.
Go on a picnic in the spring and summer. A romantic picnic in a meadow or on a beach is a great way to get outdoors and spend some time together.
Go ice skating in winter. Hold hands with your hubby and glide on the ice.
Do something adventurous, like an extreme sport. You could go rock climbing, snowboarding, surfing, etc.
 Sometimes nothing is better than a spontaneous text or voice message from your lover. Call just to say "I love you" or send your hubby a flirty message that contains something for him to look forward to.


Send sexy snap chats to your hubby to remind him what's waiting for him after work. Make sure to warn him that you sent a sexy snap in advance, so that he doesn't open it in front of his friends, or worse, his colleagues.
Put a video or website link on his FaceBook page to something that has a special meaning to your relationship. This could be the music video to a love song, or a clip of your favorite comedy show, etc.
 If you're constantly wallowing around the house in sweatpants, it might be time to take a trip to the mall for some new clothes. There's nothing wrong with being comfortable in front of your hubby, but be sure to always take care of yourself as well.


Spice up a plain outfit with a sexy blouse or dress.
Put on a pair of stilettos to elongate your legs. Every man loves long, sexy legs. A pair of heels are a quick and easy way to make any outfit look sexier.
Get some new lingerie. Lingerie is a sexy way to spice up your bedroom life and make your hubby see you in a new light.
 Being attractive isn't all about looking sexy, it's about exuding a confident and compassionate attitude as well. Be sure to retain a kind disposition toward your husband and be considerate of his feelings always.


Exude happiness. As humans, we're all going to have good days and bad days. While you shouldn't try to mask your feelings if you are feeling sad or depressed, you should try to be a pleasant person to be around whenever possible.
Smile. Visual signals are just as important as words. Avoid walking around with a scowl on your face all day and try to smile as much as possible.
 This might sound like a plea to get you to work out for the sake of a sexy body, but exercise can provide you with so much more than a slim frame and ripped abs. When you exercise, your body releases endorphins, neurotransmitters that reduce stress and induce happiness.


Maintaining a steady exercise routine has also been shown to increase sexual desire as a result of the positive effects working out has on your body and mind.
Try stress-reducing exercises like yoga, or energy-inducing exercises like running.
Don't overlook the positive effect that simply feeling sexy can have one your love life. When you feel desirable, your confidence and sexuality shine through.