


The metal discharges the electricity, thereby removing static. You could accomplish the same task by running another metal item over your clothes.
You can also pass a metal hanger in between your skin and your clothes after putting the clothes on. In fact, it is best to use this trick either immediately before putting the clothes on or while the clothes are on.
This trick works especially well with delicate fabrics, like silk.;
,









The metal discharges the electrical build-up in your clothes, preventing that build-up from shocking you or causing your garment to stick to your skin.
Place the pin on the inside seam of your clothes or any other covered area. Avoid placing it on the front or near an exposed hem, since others will be able to see it if you do.
 Touch everything with the thimble before touching it with your bare skin.









As with other tricks involving metal, the idea is to discharge the electrical charge to prevent static. Touching any metal object will accomplish the same goal if you do not have a metal thimble.
If you don't want to walk around with a thimble on your thumb, you can tuck it away in your pocket and pull it out only as necessary. This may also help to reduce the amount of static building up in your clothes as you walk around.
Note that this trick is more effective at preventing static shock than static cling, but it can help prevent your clothes from sticking to your skin.










Rubber accumulates electrical charges, and those charges are responsible for static cling.
Wearing leather shoes will help you stay grounded since leather does not build up electrical charge as easily as rubber.










The hairspray should be sprayed from a distance to prevent it from leaving visible traces on your clothing. For best results, focus your efforts on the areas of clothing that usually stick to you the most.
This trick should be done immediately before you wear your clothes so that it does not have time to wear off. You could also spray down your clothes after you have already put them on.
Hairspray is formulated to combat static in your hair, but it can work against static in clothing, as well.
 Spray clingy clothes with a solution made from 1 part liquid fabric softener and 30 parts water.









This formula is only a rough estimate, but the amount of water you use should be much greater than the amount of fabric softener.
Spray the areas of your clothing that are clinging to your skin. Focus on spraying the inside of the clothing, where the clothes are most likely to rub against your skin.

