 Swimmers, spear fishermen, wading fishermen, body boarders and short board surfers are more vulnerable than long board surfers, stand up board paddlers, kayak paddlers, jet skiers, kite boarders and windsurfers.;
, Lifeguards are on the lookout for sharks and they will post warning signs if sharks are in the area.
 When in those high risk areas, take all precautions and possibly upgrade to a safer vehicle. Instead of body boarding or short boards surfing, consider kayaking or stand up board paddling. Generally, the country beaches, as opposed to the city beaches, have a higher incidence of shark attacks and encounters.



The ocean predators place themselves at river mouths because it is great for ambushing. Think of the river mouth as a crossing like a bridge or an intersection, where if you place yourself there, you can meet up with many people.
Avoid river mouths after heavy rains. The smaller river life, unable to swim against the strong flow, gets washed into the ocean and attract the predators.
Be observant at river mouths because of the lower visibility. The water is not clear here with the brown, fresh water and even more so after a rain.
Farmers may dump carcasses, and parts of pigs and cattle, in rivers and streams, so avoid going in the water when you see this kind of dumping.
 For whatever reason, murky water seems to have more than their fair share of shark attacks

, Harbor mouths, like river mouths, are a natural underwater heavy traffic zone. Additionally, sharks stay in these areas to get free handouts by commercial fishermen discarding fish parts after cleaning.
 A big, long points protrudes out into the ocean and for the fish to get from point A to point B, they have to go around the point. The fish will not make a big turn around the point, they will swim close to it. Unfortunately, point breaks make nice waves that do not close out, and a paddling channel.
 You also will not have great visibility without sunlight. The winds increases during the day, choose mid morning or later afternoon to get wet. The minus side of this is that the conditions, with the lack of winds that make the waves sloppy, are great at dawn and dusk, and additionally the crowds at the breaks are smallest at dawn.
 Sharks can smell well and will be drawn to the chum, fishermen sometimes catch big sharks unintentionally.
 The fish on their stringers will attract sharks.
, It is usually beginners who have coral cuts because they are in the inside in shallow water and small waves.
 Urinate just prior to entering the ocean.
 Avoid deep waters. Stay with the pack, do not be one, way on the outside, hoping to catch that big wave first. Do not body board or surf alone. Unfortunately, shallow waters have small waves.
 Sharks like to eat turtles. Know what the sharks in your area feed on. When marine life make quick movements, they are reacting to predators.
 Heed warning signs on the beach. Also check for jellyfish and Portuguese man of war warnings.
 There is a fish, with a similar design, that sharks do not eat.
,,