 One of the most important things to do when you first get braces is to avoid hard, crunchy foods. Avoid chips or fries, for example. For the first few days, consider not eating any solid foods and try a mostly liquid diet. It is also advisable to chew as softly as possible to reduce friction.


The bright side to your discomfort is that you now have a good excuse to eat ice cream. Ice cream is soft and because it is cold it can help reduce inflammation. Though not as exciting, soup can also be a good choice for a sore mouth., This means in part that you should use long, slow, gentle strokes when brushing your teeth. But it also helps to have the right toothbrush. A soft bristle tooth brush will make it much easier to clean your mouth without aggravating any sores. They are readily available at most stores and clearly identified on the packaging.


Brush gently from the top to the bottom of each individual tooth.It is important that you still brush multiple times a day after getting your braces and always check in the mirror for any food particles or plaque.
 Rinsing your mouth with warm salt water can help heal any wounds in your mouth and ease pain from shifting teeth. Combine warm water from the tap or a tea kettle with salt from a shaker and mix using a spoon. Use 1 teaspoon salt for each cup of water. Rinse three times daily., Put ice in your mouth for a while and suck on it. The cold will reduce swelling. The principle is similar as that of the ice cream, only less fun, but probably healthier. But be careful if you bite the ice this might result in your braces hurting more or a broken bracket!, Dealing with pain is also a question of mind over matter. If you fixate on it, it will get worse, whereas if you pretend it is not there, it will get better. One of the best ways to forget about it is to focus on something else. Find something to do that will distract you. Anything that is engaging — either because you enjoy it or it takes a lot of effort — should help take your mind of the pain.