 There are many different types of crystals, each with its own use and purpose. When you are selecting your crystals, you may have a certain ailment or issue in mind that you would like to address through using the crystals. Or you may look for a crystal that can bring a certain energy to your life.For example, amber may help you deal with depression and attract positivity into your life. Clear quartz can help to amplify and transform the energy around you. Moonstone can help to restore balance in your life, especially if you are going through an emotional time. Rose quartz can encourage self-love and help you overcome feelings of grief and sadness.
Some of the most popular crystals include clear quartz, rose quartz, amethyst, citrine, and hematite.A complete list of crystals and their uses can be found online.If you purchase the crystals at a crystal shop, you may ask the sales attendant about certain crystals and their uses. You may tell her about certain issues you would like to address and allow her to recommend crystals for you.;
, Crystals can also be identified by their coloring, which can range from red to pink to light blue to black. Focus on a specific coloring when selecting your crystals, as certain colorings indicate certain uses and properties. You may want to get one crystal of each coloring to cover several different needs or uses. For example, red crystals, such as garnet, ruby, and jasper can stimulate and activate energy. Pink crystals like rose quartz and kunzite can help you to release emotion. Green crystals such as moss agate and emerald can bring balance into your life and encourage personal growth. Black crystals like smoky quartz and obsidian can be grounding and help you to focus your energy inward.
A complete list of crystals based on color and use can be found online., Crystals that are small and smooth are often used for healing on the body. Make sure the stone is not too heavy on your body or in your hand, but also not small enough that it can be easily lost. Look for flat stones, as they will stay in place more easily than round stones.Many crystals come in a small size, just large enough to fit in your hand or on a chain around your neck. Start with a few crystals first and expand your collection over time.
 Some crystal practitioners suggest doing a one to two minute meditation with your eyes closed before you select the crystals. This may help you to consider why you are looking for a crystal and what you would like to address through the crystal.Close your eyes and meditate on the issue or problem you would like to address. Breathe deeply in and out as you do this. After one to two minutes of meditation, open your eyes and choose the crystal that first catches your eye.
 You can also select the crystals by feel. Place your hand a few inches over the crystals and wait for a tingling feeling on your hand. Go for crystals that seem to draw your hand to them or stimulate your hand or body in some way. Often, the crystals will call out to you and compel you to select them.Crystal practitioners believe that the crystals choose the person, rather than the other way around. Letting your body react to the crystal will likely lead you to a crystal that was meant for you and your needs.
 Some crystal practitioners will use a dowsing tool, such as a rod or a pendulum. Dowsing is the act of locating energy on an object by using a rod or pendulum.You can get a healing rod or a healing pendulum at a new age store or online.Hold the rod or pendulum over the selection of crystals and wait to see which crystals the rod or pendulum is drawn to. The rod or pendulum may swing or shift slightly towards a certain crystal or group of crystals.
 Once you buy the crystals, you will need to cleanse them of any residual energy that they have picked up on their way to you. It is important that you do this so the energy does not transfer onto you. Cleansing your crystals after every use will ensure they are at their most optimal state.If you wear a crystal on a chain every day, you should try to cleanse it at least once a day. If you are using a crystal for healing, cleanse it after every use.
 A smudge stick is a bundle of dried herbs tied together with string. You can find smudge sticks at a new age store or online. You can also use incense with herbs such as sage, cedar, sandalwood, and frankincense.Hold the crystal within the smoke of the smudge stick or the incense to cleanse them. Do not put the hot smudge stick or incense too close to the crystals, as this can damage the crystals. Never put the crystals over a hot flame.
 Crystal practitioners believe that water can help to wash away negative energy on the crystals. You can hold the stone in a river or a brook for a few minutes, leave it out in the rain for a few hours, or hold it under a water faucet for a few minutes.You can also bathe the crystal in saltwater for a few minutes. Place the crystals in a mesh bag and put them in ocean water or a bowl of salt water for a few hours.
Do not use water on soft stones like anglite, dolomite, malachite, sulphur, etc, as it could dissolve the stone. Salt can also dissolve the finish on some stones, so do not put delicate stones in salt water.
 Put the stone on a windowsill or outside in direct sunlight for an hour. Keep in mind over time, sunlight can fade the color of some stones.Alternatively, you can place the stone in moonlight for one night under a full moon or longer if the moon is not full.
 This method uses the energy of your body to cleanse the crystals. You can put the crystals in a bag and hold it to your chest. Then, take a deep breath and blow on them.You can also do a visualization cleanse over the crystals, where you hold them and close your eyes. Visualize that you are getting rid of the negativity on the stones. Do this for several minutes.
 You can use the earth to cleanse the crystals by putting the crystals in a waterproof bag and burying them in the ground. Leave the crystals buried for a full day to cleanse them.Do not put the stones in potting soil, as it may have chemicals that can damage the crystals.
 You can use plants to cleanse the crystals by placing the crystals near an indoor plant or flowerpot. Plants purify the air around them and they can also purify the crystals. You can place the crystals next to an indoor plant or a flowerpot.Another really popular way to cleanse crystals is to place them in a glass bowl and cover them with dry sea salt. Let sit for a few hours, or up to a day. Once you're done, rinse the crystals in cool running water.Alternatively, you can partially bury a smaller glass container in dry sea salt. Then place your crystal directly into the empty glass. If you're looking to cleanse your crystals with salt, this is the best method to use if you have fragile crystals.Another option is to leave the crystals next to a bag of quartz clusters for one day. Quartz clusters can help to magnify, focus, and transmute energy. Use a large bag of crystal quartz chips or clusters and place them next to the crystals for one day.Use a bell or tuning fork over the crystals. Sound can help to cleanse the crystals, such as the ringing of a bell or the hum of a tuning fork. You can also use a chime over the crystals to remove any negativity in them.Try putting the crystals under a glass pyramid. You can find glass pyramids at a new age store and online. Place the crystals under the pyramid for several days so the negative energy on the crystals is neutralized and removed.