 First things first: wear your favorite clothes. If you just bought a new shirt put it on. Just wear clothes that make you feel comfortable, confident, and make sure that in your head you KNOW you look good in them. Prepping also involves smelling good, so take a shower, shave, and put on your favorite cologne. While getting showered and dressed, play your favorite music so you will be energized and in the party mood. This will help you clear you head of stresses and get you pumped to go out and meet women.;
, Before you arrive at the actual party, get some friends together (preferably at your place) and start socializing. Have some drinks to loosen yourself up before you walk into the party. Make sure there's music at the pre-party to get you and your friends on the same level. Be careful not to drink too much though! You do not want to show up too drunk to the actual party.
 Show up with a group of friends and/or have your friends greet you at the door. Make sure you're excited to see everyone you know at the party and they will be excited to see you too. Girls notice a guy’s presence when he walks into a room and people jump up to greet him. It conveys a high social status and a girl just might become attracted to you before you even say hello.
 Scope out the party and feel the vibe. Then, be above that! You need your energy level to be at its highest. Run around to different groups of friends and strangers and start conversations. You will look fun and sociable. Girls will notice this and they will be more relaxed around you if people seem to like you. If you're lucky, someone from on of the groups you interact with will introduce you to that cute girl you've been checking out.
 Do not act shy or nervous. Do not just stand around looking at the girl you want to talk to every few seconds. Girls can smell insecurity from a mile away and it’s a major turn off. Find any excuse to talk to her (use your environment, talk about someone you both might know, notice something about her).
 Flirting can involve any type of playful teasing. Challenge her to a drinking game or invite her to be your partner. This will open up tons of doors for flirting (tease her if she misses in beer pong, blame her for losing a game in a playful way etc.). Continue having fun with her as much as possible and do not stop building the attraction. If she laughs and playfully punches you while you flirt this is a GOOD thing! Avoid any normal “interview” conversations such as “where do you live?” and “what do you do?” Keep the conversation fun and entertaining. Tell her a cool story, tease her a little, make fun of some of the drunk people at the party etc.
 If you two haven’t been lightly touching each other during your flirty conversations this is a good way to get physical. Make sure you have some dance moves because it can be a real turn off if a guy can’t dance. Now you don’t need to be a pro, but if she likes how you dance, the attraction will be amplified even more. If you two are really digging each other at this point and you feel it, you can go right to making your move.
 This means do not stick around her all night. Let her have fun with her friends, and show her that you’re having fun with your friends as well. Following her around all night shows that you’re clingy and needy which is extremely unattractive. Also, giving her space will give her time to think about you and miss you. During this time, stay calm, cool, and in control. Do not be jealous if you see other guys talking to her. Act like you already have it in the bag and she will notice. This step can go in any order of the list after you have begun the flirty conversation with her and you can do this multiple times throughout the night (a good opportunity to meet other girls too!).
 After giving her a little space, let her come back to you (and if she doesn’t, just make eye contact, smile, and start the conversation back up). If she’s giving you the eye and has all her attention on you, wait for the right moment in the conversation such as a pause after something funny or flirty while looking at each other and kiss her. If you are afraid she is not the type of girl that hooks up at a party or if her friends are keeping her eye on you, grab her phone number.
 Parties can be short lived. Count on the police breaking it up and having a place to go after with her. Also, know where you are sleeping. Secure a room in the house or have a place to crash close to the party so you can bring her back. If that is not your intention, simply tell her you will call her at the end of the night and kiss her goodnight.

