 A carry-on size bag with dimensions 9" × 22" × 14" should do just fine as it will even fit in the overhead bin in the airplane. If it is utmost necessary to carry more than one bag, make sure that the weight is within the prescribed limit—you will not want to pay extra charges while traveling by airplane for overloading, at least not without planning to do on purpose. ;
, While abroad, you will be walking with your luggage more than you think you will. Before flying overseas, check yourself out. Pack up completely and go into your hometown. Try out the tourist experience for an hour. If you are comfortable window-shopping while being fully loaded, it is well and good. If not, get back home and thin things out.
 When you carry your own luggage, it is less likely to get lost, broken, or stolen. Moreover, making last minute flight change plans becomes easier. A small bag sits on your lap or under your seat on the bus, taxi, and airplane. You do not have to worry about it and as soon as you arrive, you are ready to hit the road on your own. This in itself is a liberating feeling!

, While in most aircraft carriers, it is still free to check one bag on most overseas trips, you might have to pay a fee to check two. If you are vacationing in Europe and you're taking a separate flight within Europe, expect to be charged to check even just one bag.
 While in a foreign country, you can save a lot of other hassles by packing light. Remember that having too much luggage marks you as a typical tourist and it might make you a potential target for con artists, taxi drivers, etc. This also enables you to do away with the problem of hiring porters since, with only one bag, you are mobile and fully in control of your belongings.
 Before packing up all your items for the trip, spread them all on the living-room floor. Scrutinize each and every item carefully and ask yourself whether you will absolutely be needing them during the trip or not.
 Instead, pack for the best-case scenario and buy the rest of the stuff if you fall into some kind of emergency. Due to increasing globalization and rapid expansion of leading brands, you will find most of the popular brands of items in most of the countries.


For instance, you need not worry if your stock of toiletries get exhausted half-way through the trip. All you have to do is visit the shops in those localities and find the items that you require, such as toothpastes, soaps or razors. Tourist shops in major international hotels and even airports will surely be one of the places you visit and in these places, it's easy to find a personal item. Sometimes roaming around that city and shopping around can be a unique experience in itself.
 Whether you have to travel for a week or a month, pack for exactly the same. To keep your clothes tightly packed and organized, roll them up instead of folding. This creates room for more within your luggage. You can also try putting them in resealable bags and packing cubes.


Keep your toiletries, first-aid kit and gadgets separately, in tightly bound packets.
For smaller items like socks etc you have the option to use mesh cubes and small airless baggies.

