 You can get your period at ages 8-16. You normally would get it at ages 11-14. You may be the first one of your friends to start your period. This puts you in a strange situation. You are still the same age as your friends, but you are dealing with some issues that your friends may not understand. Continue to hang out with friends your age and do the things that you have always enjoyed doing with them. You are still a kid.If your friends do not understand what you are going through, do not talk with them about your period. Have these conversations with your parents or other female family members. Just talk to your friends about the things you would usually talk about.
If you are not feeling well because of your period, you can tell your friends that you are sick without going into all of the details.
This can be really hard at first, but it will become easier once your friends start getting their periods.;
, You may not always be at home or at school when your period starts. Knowing what you will do in each situation can make you feel less nervous. Talk to your parent about how to handle your period in different situations.What will you do if you start your period at a friend's house?
What will you do if you want to go swimming?
What will you do if your period starts, but you do not have a pad or tampon?

, Many people believe it is best to use pads instead of tampons when you first start your period. Pads are worn outside of your body, and you can stick them in your underwear. A tampon must be inserted inside of your vagina.Pads are much easier to change, and it will be easier for you to tell when it is time to change your pad. Some girls alternate between using pads and tampons.


Talk to a parent to help you decide which option is best for you.
You can try both pads and tampons to see which one you are most comfortable with.
Tampons may be more comfortable for playing sports and going swimming.
 You may experience cramps before and during your period. These cramps can be painful and distract you from doing your normal activities. If your cramps bother you, ask your parents about taking some pain medication. You will want to take pain medication before you go to school and possibly while you are at school.Your parents can help you decide the best dose and timing to take your pain medicine.
Ask your female family members if they experience cramps. You are more likely to have them if they do.
Placing a heating pad on your lower abdomen and/or back can also help with cramps.
 You may feel all types of emotions about your period. Are you upset that your period has already started? Do you feel different from your friends now that you have your period?All of the emotions you are experiencing are completely normal.
Writing down how you feel helps you express yourself in a healthy way. Your journal is for your eyes only so you can be honest about how you are really feeling.
 Getting your period at an early age makes you feel less like a kid. Although managing your period is a big responsibility, you can still do all of the things you liked to do before. Focus on things that make you happy instead of thinking about your period.Watch a funny movie or go outside and play.
Spend time with your friends and talk about things that are not related to your period.
 Your body is going through a lot of changes right now. You are probably moodier and more irritable, especially when you are on your period. If you are between the ages of 7 and 12, you need 10 to 11 hours of sleep each night.Not getting enough sleep can make you feel worse.