 Many premium cat food manufacturers make a "hairball" control diet. This is usually a dry kibble that contains fiber.The fiber attaches itself to the hair in the stomach and pulls the hair with it through the bowel to be passed. This is most effective when fed as the cat's main food.


These formulas also contain vitamins and nutrients to improve your cat’s coat, reducing the amount your cat will shed.Hairball control foods are not so useful for helping your cat pass an existing hairball. You may need to use a lubricant to help with the latter, and then continue with a hairball control diet to prevent recurrence.
 Cats love to snack on plants—often ones you wish they wouldn’t. Indoor cat grass is another good source of fiber for your cat, and it’s cheap and easy to take care of.Consider keeping some around for your cat to nibble at between meals.
 Water is highly important to your cat’s digestion, and cats can be very picky drinkers. If your cat prefers running water, then provide a circulating fountain-style dispenser or a deep, pool-style reservoir dish.These options come with attachable tanks that ensure your cat has continuous access to fresh water even while you’re away.
 You can find lubricants to help prevent hairballs in a couple of different forms. You apply some brands to your cat’s food while others you apply directly to your cat’s paw for her to lick off as she grooms. Regardless of the delivery method, the lubricant will coat the fur and help it pass more easily through your cat’s digestive tract.You can find several brands of hairball lubricant at your local pet store. Most will suggest giving them to your cat once or twice a week, but you should always follow the manufacturer’s directions.These formulations are most often petroleum based, which is safe for your cat at the suggested dosages.For existing hairballs, a lubricant can help your cat vomit up the hairball as well, so don’t panic if your cat produces a hairball after you’ve started using the product. After the existing hairball is up, the product should help prevent future ones.
A small amount of vegetable oil on dry cat food can help as well, but it may not work as effectively as a petroleum-based lubricant. Check with your vet for the proper amount for your cat.
If you are using a lubricant and your cat stops eating, seems unwell, or strains in her litter box, then seek veterinary attention for the cat.

