 Opt for the slate call if you want something a little more challenging; this is a favorite among the experts. Like box calls, they are percussive, and consist of two parts: the call itself, a flat circle made of slate, glass, or another material, and strikers, sticks shaped like screwdrivers.You may also hear them referred to as pot-and-peg calls; this is correct as well.
Each combination of striker and slate makes a different sound as you rub the striker on the slate, so get a few and experiment., Now that you have your slate call, learn the basic: the yelp. The pitch and volume of this will sound different depending on which slate and striker you use, so it’s good to practice with a variety of tools. Experiment to discover what works best for you.


To get the basic motion of using a slate call, press the striker firmly to the slate, then quickly circle the striker around it.
To improve the yelp, try drawing a fish-hook shape with the striker (instead of a circle shape). This will produce a “ye-OW” sound, which is even more accurate., These very different sounds start with a similar motion--all you need to do to change the meaning is vary the speed and pressure of the movement. To cluck, putt, or cut, pull the striker horizontally and sharply on the slate.


Clucking is the most relaxed of the three--it’s a turkey’s way of telling other turkeys where it is.Because it’s a slow call, your movement should be, too.
Putting is an alarm sound, so if you’re trying to attract turkeys, it’s to be avoided. If you’re a wildlife photographer who wants to photograph them on the move, it’s perfect. Make the same motion, but do it with more force and rhythm.Cutting is mostly quick clucking, with a few yelps. It’s the noise a hen makes when she’s in the mood, so it’s popular for attracting toms., How is a turkey at peace like a cat at peace? They both like to purr. To make this contented sound, drag the striker vertically and slowly across the slate with some pressure. Unlike many well-known turkey calls, this should be a soft and comforting noise, not a sharp one., If you want slate calls and strikers so sound their best, then periodically, you will need to remove grime from their surfaces. If you’re working with a slate call made of actual slate, then a gentle application of fine-grit sandpaper is the best way to get the job done. Rub it down with the sandpaper at the end of the season, and any time you notice a visible buildup of grime.Store slate calls in a sealed plastic bag off-season, in a spot with stable temperature and humidity.
Never touch the surface of your slate call with your hands! This will make it oily, marring the sound.

