 If other people are around, rally them for support. If several people come to the person’s aid, the bully will likely back off. There’s strength in numbers. If you’re being bullied, avoid going places alone and try to have someone with you between classes or at lunchtime. Whatever you do, don’t escalate the situation and bully back. Two wrongs don’t make a right.Have multiple people telling the bully to back off or stop bullying. People can say, “Leave her alone” or, “Back off.”
Try repeating to yourself, "Only an insecure person bullies others," to stay assertive without bullying the person in return.
 Interrupt the bully or call the person being bullied away. You can also lead them away from the bully. If the person is shaken up, put your arm on their shoulder and walk with them. The important thing is to get them away from the situation.Simply say, “Hey, come over here.” You can also say, “You don’t need to listen to that” or, “I need your help with something.”
If you’re the one being bullied, find an escape route. Look for a friend to walk with or get out of there on your own.
 Being bullied can hurt someone deeply, especially around such a sensitive subject. Reassure the person that they are fine just the way they are and that the bullying is not their fault. If they look sad, don’t shrug off what happened or the way they are responding. Be emotionally available to them. If you’re being bullied, don’t be afraid to share your feelings. You have nothing to be ashamed of or feel bad about.Say, “That’s rough. I’m sorry that happened to you” or, “I know that’s really hurtful. I’m sorry they said that to you.”
You can also offer a listening ear. Say, “If you want to talk about it, I’m here for you.”
If the person expresses feelings of hopelessness, then recommend that they talk to a counselor or parent. If they express suicidal thoughts, then tell a parent or school official directly yourself.
 Make sure they know that people care about them. Not everyone is homophobic or wants to hurt them. In fact, lots of people are likely willing to support them for who they are, regardless of their sexuality. Say that sexuality is never something to make fun of and is really not anyone’s business.


Just because one person is hateful doesn’t mean all people are hateful. Remind the person that they are loved and care for by many other people.
Try extending a kind gesture, such as inviting them to lunch or writing them a supportive note. This can be extremely helpful for the person.

