 Family, close friends, and lovers can all benefit from social media. You can use social media to stay in touch through busy times, and even across long distances. This can help you to nurture relationships that would otherwise be put on hold.For example, you can keep in touch with your parents and friends when you move out of state to go to college or take a job.
 Research suggests that people who share details about their relationships on social media tend to be happier. Take this opportunity to share a bit about yourself and a loved one from time to time. It might make both of you happier., Research also suggests that people who share too much about their personal lives and relationships on social media are not well liked. Strike a balance by going easy on the details when you post about yourself and loved ones. You can also post about other things, too. This will help your online friends and followers see that you aren’t only posting about your own personal life.It is especially important to avoid sharing details on conflict within your family or between you and your partner. Review your posts before sharing to make sure you are not using social media as a way to vent about these kinds of personal issues.
 Your relationships with friends and family take time and energy to thrive. So do your romantic relationships. You need to limit your time on social media and unplug frequently to allow yourself the time and energy to invest in your intimate relationships.You and your partner could agree on a time that will be “screen free” and set aside for the two of you to connect.
 The downside of social media, especially in romantic relationships, is that it can foster worries. If you or your partner has jealous tendencies, make sure to keep an open dialogue about social media usage. Avoid using social media too much around your partner, as this takes time and attention away from them. You should also be conscientious about whom you spend your time talking to on social media.Identify some basic rules that you and your partner can follow to maintain appropriate social media behavior.
 If you find it hard to make friends in person, then using social media as a way to connect with people offline can be a good option. Try using social media to meet people who share your interests, such as by joining an online group for hikers or video game enthusiasts. Or, use social media to find and connect with old friends.