 Write out some ideas of what kind of board game you want to create and play. Write down genres you like such as strategy, trivia, or adventure. With so many types of board games, you'll begin to narrow down your own creation by writing down your ideas. Create a list of your favorite board games for inspiration.
Writing out your ideas will also give you a good idea of the materials you will need later.
 Once you have a bunch of ideas written down, look for ones that are similar and go together. Circle these winning ideas and begin to think about what kind of play style and game board will work best. Try to combine aspects of your favorite existing games. Perhaps you love Risk or Settlers of Catan as well as Monopoly. Or maybe you like something that doesn’t use a dedicated board like Munchkin or Werewolf.
You can create your own game based on existing board games you like and even borrow pieces from other games.
 Once you have an idea in your mind of what kind of board game you want to make and what the setup will look like, it’s time to sketch it out.


Sketch the layout of the game on paper to get a sense of what the actual game will look like.
If your game board is something like Monopoly, then go and fill out the details of the squares on the board. Maybe you have a winding road like in LIFE. Make note of what each square, area, or portion means.
 Now that you know what the game looks like and the general purpose of it, it’s time to lay down some rules so people know how to play.


It’s easiest to keep your rules short and simple. If you create too many long or convoluted rules it will be hard for you to explain the game. It will also be harder for others to pick it up and have fun.
Let the physical design of your game help guide the rules you create. For example, if you’re on a map like in Risk, then establish rules on where people can be on the map, how the turns work, and how movement across the map works.
 With all the details down, now you just have to construct your physical board, cards, and anything else that you need to make your game.


You can make your own materials like a game board with something as simple as cardboard and paper with your design pasted on top. Or, you can go online and find materials or order custom designs by uploading your artwork and rules to a site like thegamecrafter.com Use items from other games. Take the army pieces from Risk to use in combination with the cards from Settlers of Catan.
You can also get custom 3D pieces printed online if you really want to make this game your own and last for years.
Try using note cards if you have a card component in your game. Draw on the note cards if you’re feeling creative or just simply write down what each card does.
 With everything set up and ready to go, it’s time to play your game with your family and friends.


Take your time during the first playthrough. You’ll have to explain the rules and components of your game to your friends and it may take some time to get it all down.
Make notes of what works well and what doesn’t. You’ll probably find that there are parts to your board game that need improvement. That’s ok! This is version one.
After you play through the first time, go back and make the changes you need to keep fleshing out your game.
Then keep playing and enjoy your hard work.

