 Perhaps you’ve already got a story in mind, or maybe not. If not, read several different books and pick one that you really enjoy. If the story paints a vivid picture in your mind, it will be easier to come up with sketches.


Regardless of what book you choose, make sure you spend plenty of time reading and analyzing the story. Try to imagine what the author pictured when it was written. Try to imagine how you would draw the picture as you are reading and re-reading the story.
Another option is to write a story of your own. Many writers enjoy the process of both writing and illustrating. One advantage of this is, that if you write your own story, you know exactly what the author is trying to portray, which makes it easier to portray the story in images.
 After you’ve chosen or written the book you want to illustrate you can begin sketching pictures of the setting, the scenery, etc.


It may be helpful to take notes of what you've sketched so far, with what characters, and in what settings so that you can keep track throughout the book. Especially if the book is a long one, it may be hard to remember the details of what you sketched in an earlier part of the book.
If you’re not sure exactly what the characters and style should look like, try sketching out several different ideas so you can see them on paper (or computer).
 Once you’ve completed some rough sketches of different ideas you have, you can choose a style that you will stick with throughout the book.


Since this is for your own enjoyment, the style can be any you choose. However, it is often a good idea to choose a style that matches with the book. For example, if the book is about drama and murder, you probably won't be using a lot of bright colors. Instead, in this case, you might consider using darker, more muted shading, and less cartoonish characters.
If you're illustrating a children's book, on the other hand, you don't want to draw characters that will frighten children.
 Since you are not doing this as a paid job, you can proceed with the process of illustration as you like. Draw images for each scene you find interesting, or for each page of the book. Draw and redraw the scenes as much as you like. Add color or keep the illustrations as simple pencil sketches. These choices are completely yours.


If you are doing this in order to build up a portfolio, you should try to work towards creating a style that is unique to you.If you want to improve your illustrations, you can also ask for lots of feedback from friends and family too! They may have ideas you hadn’t previously thought of., If you have drawn all your images by hand, you can scan the images into your computer where you can add the images to the story.


Alternatively, if you have chosen a book that you are unable to edit on the computer, you can simply put the drawings into the book where you wanted to include them. This way they will be in the story next time you read it., If you think you might one day want to become a published illustrator, consider sharing your work. These days, it is very common for illustrators to post their portfolio online.


There are many websites that will let you create your own blog for free. Simply search on Google for "free blogging websites". Make sure the site you choose will easily allow you to share your link with friends!
You can also create a physical portfolio if you wish. There are many ways to do this, but if you plan to present it to potential clients, make sure that it looks clean and professional.

