 Jot down any ideas that you have about this. Collect anything that might help. It can be as simple as writing labels on a white sheet or printer paper or you can draw your ideas. You could look at pictures on the internet, or even consult a professional. Putting ideas on paper helps you filter your thoughts, in the end this process saves you time and physical effort.;
, Take posters off the walls, remove your curtains and shelves. It is essential to work with the bare bones, to completely start anew. Make sure you have another room to stay in while this is being done.
 Popular colors for a Vampire den are usually dark violet/red, deep purple, silver or gray, and black. (Do not paint your entire walls black it will not give the desired affect.) Paint two touching walls the color of your choice and the other two walls a darker version of the color you chose. For example: Paint North and East walls scarlet, South and West walls crimson. Paint can be found at any home improvement store, and they'll usually have samples you can look at.
 Your accent color should be dark. Black, onyx, gray, silver, or gold would look appropriate.
, A new paint job isn't the only thing you should do. Go out and buy some things to really get in the theme.


A bed spread and sheet set that matches the colors in your new room.
A black hanging chandelier. (They can be hung on the ceiling and plugged in with a wall plug, no messing with electricity required.)

, Also, with dark drapes you can hang them from your roof and form them into a sort of tent-like shape, but you would need the drapes to be long to do this.

Candles that match the colors you have chosen.
Gray, silver or wall colored curtains. Head to a craft store and find a black lacy material to drape over your curtain for a more Gothic affect.
Print or buy black and white or aged photos that you like, put them in black Gothic looking frames and hang on the wall. You could also buy posters.
Search antique shops for a Gothic mirror and bed frames.
Anything else you can find that might look good.


Try to make everything dark.