 If the price is ridiculously low, it is best to check more carefully or walk away. Usually counterfeits are considerably cheaper than authentic Converse. The cheaper price makes up for not having genuine Converse. If you opt to save money, be prepared to see your shoes deteriorate fast. Cheap sweatshop shoes will never match Converse standards for construction and materials.


Standard All Star high tops will typically sell anywhere from $50 to $100 depending on the style.
 If you are okay with buying counterfeit Converse, you do need to be careful of how you pay for them. Typically a cash only vendor is a bit of a red flag. When purchasing online, be aware of what website you are on. Have you shopped there before, or do even recognize the site? Be sure that your web browser is secure (https://) when you’re checking out.Many web browsers even have a padlock at the top corner to indicate no one can steal your information.
Expect a confirmation email when purchasing from an untrusted website.
 Always be vigilant when you’re at a flea market or other sorts of vendors. Sometimes vendors will lead you to a strange and potentially dangerous location to purchase counterfeit goods. These vendors are conducting illegal operations. Have your guard up and remember you can have a much safer transaction at a department store.Ask yourself if the price is worth the poor construction and dangerous environment.
 You never know, when you are at markets outside department stores, if they’re actually counterfeit. Ask questions when you see a price too good to be true. You can detect a lot from the seller's body language. If you suspect he’s lying, he probably is. Use your best judgement.


It is not fair to assume all open air markets sell counterfeit goods.
 If you plan to shop abroad, review travel advisories from the Department of State before going to a location. They will have information of the scene of counterfeit sellers in that location. U.S. Customs can potentially confiscate an item they deem to be questionable.Many vendors abroad target tourists with counterfeit goods. Have your guard up, but don’t act unless you are sure you’re being deceived.

