 As you transition into a man, your body will react to having more male hormones. You can expect to grow facial and body hair. You might also notice that you develop more muscle in your arms, legs, and chest.As your body changes, you may feel self-conscious or begin comparing yourself to other adult males. Keep in mind that this is normal, but it is important work on building your confidence to help get you through this time.;
, As you transition into an adult male, your voice will likely deepen. On average, men’s voices are deeper than women’s voices. A change in hormones is responsible for this change as well., As you transition into an adult male, you will have a host of changes to your emotional range. You will be dealing with a lot of changes in your relationships, how society views you, and your hormones. All of these changes will play into your emotions and how you handle them.The increase in testosterone might increase your sex drive or cause you to become more aggressive.
Work on developing more emotional control to help get your through this time. You can use deep breathing, counting down from five, or taking a break from the situation to think and reflect on things before reacting.
 This happens because your relationships as an adult male will be different than your current relationships. There will also be different expectations from society. For example, society often expects men not to cry in public, although it is often acceptable for a boy or woman to cry. However, keep in mind that it is perfectly okay for a man to cry as well. You have the right to express your emotions no matter who you are or what stage you are at in your life.


Transitioning from adolescence to adulthood can be one of the most difficult transitions of your life because you may be searching for your identity.
Look for ways to be more independent, such as by taking on more responsibilities at home or finding a part-time job.
Be aware that you will be more prone to risky behaviors during this time. Work on developing your self-control to help counter these urges.

