 Accept their comfort. If you have few or no friends or loved ones, you can find friends. It isn't impossible! Remember, take this step by step. Take breaks, and don't be too hard on yourself if it takes a while.;
, You have probably already tried many anti-depressants. If you are on an anti-depressant you don't feel is working, talk to your doctor or psychiatrist. Maybe it isn't right for you. If you have tried many anti-depressants with little or no relief, you may benefit from counseling.
 People with exogenous depression may be so haunted or traumatized by their lives that no pill or amount of talking seems to bring relief. Likewise, some people with endogenous depression who feel they have "no reason" to be depressed do not respond to conventional medications. First step: know that you aren't alone.
 Keeping things bottled up inside may seem like a good thing to do, but in reality it will cause everything to seem much worse than it has to. The talking process is like an internal cleansing of your soul and mind. You'll be amazed that after a few days or weeks of talking about the same issue that worries you, it won't seem as scary anymore.
 Not everyone understands how you feel, no matter how much they love and care for you. Do not take it personally. It's important to find someone who will listen without judging, but whom you can still trust to give you an honest opinion when you need one. If you have no one in your circle of friends and relatives who can help you in this way, do not be afraid to look for a professional.
 If you feel uncomfortable talking to others about what's making you unhappy, consider keeping a journal. While this does not replace talking to a human, putting your feelings down on paper does help you sort through them.


Make a list of what you love about life, and your achievements. Type it or write it neatly. Frame it. Read it every day.
 Join a support group, or make a web page to help others.
 Try to stick to this plan. It can be something simple like- 8am: wake up. 8-noon: Eat breakfast, shower, make bed, go for a walk. Noon: Eat lunch. 1-3: Watch TV or Do a puzzle. 3-5: Do art or work on journal. 5-7: "free time" 7-10: get bath/shower, have tea, phone a friend.... you get the idea.
 When you feel bad about yourself (desires to die or harm oneself and feelings of guilt and shame are common in depressed people) look at the photo of yourself as a child. Remind yourself that that child lives on in you and is counting on you to protect him or her.
 Even if you eat healthily, you may be eating foods that you have a food allergy or sensitivity to. Consider getting an allergy test to rule out any allergies.


Take a multivitamin every day. If you have trouble sleeping, you may want to try melatonin (available at most health food stores), warm milk and/or Valerian root.
 If you have problems falling and staying asleep, ask your doctor about possible medications which may help. Sleep deprivation all by itself can lead to massive health problems and psychosis, as well as depression. If you feel chronically tired and exhausted in the daytime, consider that as a cause for your depression. Get a checkup, blood tests to check for thyroid problems, anemia, etc. You could also try a sleep study. Sleep apnea can cause chronic sleepiness and mimic many symptoms of depression, and it is very hard to find without being evaluated by a sleep clinic.
 The past is the past and fails to exist, except as memories. No matter what has happened to you, you can always "begin again".
 Sometimes when we feel our lowest, and it is hard to concentrate, a movie with a positive message can be uplifting (Or reading about something inspirational).
 For instance, for one person, learning about historical facts or discovering new music bands improved their mood, providing them with a lust for life. It's different for everyone. Pay attention to what moves you. And if there's nothing that moves you at the moment, do not fall in desperation: it will come eventually.
 If certain individuals stress you, you may want to limit contact and look for help with how to handle difficult or manipulative people. Remember - you deserve to be loved and respected!


Evaluate your relationships. How do you honestly feel about your friends and family? Who supports you? Who makes you feel used or stressed?

, Generally the more "interactive" the pet is, the better. Cats are good pets because they like to cuddle but are relatively easy to care for. If you have the time to care for it, though, you should also consider getting a dog, as they will offer unconditional love. If you adopt an abused or unwanted animal from a shelter you will also feel good knowing you helped that animal!


Even if you don't feel able to care for a dog or cat, having something as small as a hamster or fish to care for can help with depression.
 Chances are, now there are stretches of time when you don't enjoy what you used to enjoy doing. Sit and recall. What did you like before you got depressed? Even if it feels like a chore, try to spend at least 30 minutes a day doing something you like.


Remember to laugh! What sort of humor makes you laugh? There are all sorts! Black comedy, British Comedy, stand-up comics, weird TV shows. What makes you giggle? Even if you laugh at something that isn't considered "funny" by most people, who cares? You are laughing!






Buy a puzzle, model or art set and slowly work at it. It is something that will come together with time, that doesn't have a deadline and that can not be judged by others.






Consider starting a collection. A collection will give you something to focus and build upon. Try to pick something that is cost effective and doesn't take up a lot of room. Some suggestions for collections are: bottle caps, bookmarks, pencils, pens, erasers, baseball/movie cards, post cards, toys (especially from thrift stores!), model cars/vehicles, movie posters... write a list of what you find interesting.
Join clubs or groups that have nothing to do with your depression or mental health. Try to join something that doesn't cost a lot of money or is free, and that is drop-in. If you join something where you are expected to attend every meeting, you may miss a meeting and feel bad. Remember to keep the stress low! Reduce your obligations and responsibilities right now!

, Who cares if your legs are shaved or not? Stay safe!

, When life feels out of your control, sometimes it helps to organize your surroundings. A place for everything and everything in its place. Throw out or give away things you do not need or want. If something is irreplaceable but upsets you, put it away in a box. Only get rid of things you can replace or those with no sentimental value.
, Give yourself a makeover. You can break this into small steps too. See the dentist. Get cavities filled. Dye your hair. Buy a facial mud mask or some new clothes.
 Medication can help you body to go back on track. There are a lot of stigmas related to drugs prescribed for depression. Do not listen to them. They help you now and eventually you'll be able to quit them. It may take as long as one, or seven, years to stop taking medication.


Try the dose you have been prescribed. Do not self prescribe or, even worse, do not stop taking the medication by yourself. Always listen to your doctor.
 Exercise releases endorphins which makes us feel good, and can help burn fat. Depression and stress can lead to weight gain, which can make us feel even worse. Throw out your scale, as fat is often replaced by muscle, which is heavier.
 Make a list of what you think you can do each day, and reward yourself for your accomplishments. Depending on your level of depression, these accomplishments could be as small as flossing your teeth, taking out the garbage or cleaning out the cat box.
 Depression causes many people to lose sight of the "point" of life, and as a result they let their sink fill with dishes, their trash cans fill with garbage, and their rooms stay in disarray. Cleaning the physical clutter in your life can help get rid of the emotional clutter as well.
 Where do you want to be in 6 months? A year? Write a letter to yourself in the future. Someday you may very well look back and be amazed at what you have lived through.
, If something in your life is bothering you, get into the habit of setting a time where you will not worry about it. Set a "worry" hour in the day where you tackle your problem. After that, try to put it out of your mind.
 Turn it on when you do things that are self soothing or productive, whether it be chores, hygiene, playing with a pet or reading. Condition yourself subconsciously. When that light goes on, it means hope.

