 This may sound like an obvious step, but many people create their list of things to do before they die mentally. While there is nothing wrong with thinking about the things you want to do, writing them down is an important part of remembering, and finally actually achieving your goals.


Consider getting a small notebook that you can carry around with you. Then you can work on your list whenever you are.Spend a little extra money and get a durable notebook, if you can afford to. This can help the list last over the long term.;
, Writing a long list of things you want to do before your die can take a while. You do not need to try to finish it in one sitting. Add to your list over over months, maybe even years. It never has to be “finished.” Eventually you’ll build a very long list.


If you think of something new, take a moment to add it to the list. Your list will grow over time, and you will think of things to add even when you are not deliberately sitting down to add things.This approach will help prevent you from getting frustrated.
 Maybe you're someone how spends twelve hours a day at work, but make sure you don't only think about work or business goals.


Varying your goals across different areas of your life will help you develop a list that can improve all aspects of your life. , A few examples might be these:



Relationships. Finding your soulmate, having children, seeing your children grown and having children of their own is one train of thought.

Sporting achievements. This may include shooting a 70 on a golf course with no handicap, or a hole in one, or it might mean catching a blue marlin, driving a stock car, or pitching a no-hitter. One consideration on this category is being realistic about your ability, and present age.

Success in business or work. Many people happily live full lives at a 9 to 5 job shuffling papers, owning a house in the suburbs, and taking the family to the local diner on Friday nights, but this may not be your idea of a goal in life. Look at possibilities, list them, and find out what it will require to achieve them.

Philosophical goals. These are a little more difficult to describe, but they may include being a good neighbor, sharing your beliefs, or finding the meaning of life. Your list does not, and probably should not, reflect only material goals.

Making a difference. Here, you can really challenge yourself, be it finding a great scientific discovery that ends suffering from a tragic disease, or establishing a foundation to help underprivileged children.

Artistic achievements. There are a number of possible goals here, from writing a novel destined to become a classic, to painting a masterpiece.

Travels. You may long to take a trip to Europe, Alaska, or the North Pole. You may even want to travel to space, and even though you may never make it there, put it on the list, and see what opportunities arise to make the dream a reality.
Do not limit yourself to these categories. They are just meant to give you some suggestions. Instead, let your imagination run wild. Be as creative as you can be. , Keep a notepad handy, and use your imagination to list anything that comes to mind.


Be open ended, you do not need to know exactly how you will achieve every goal right now Just get them down on paper. If you limit yourself at this stage, you might miss out on things you genuinely wanted to try to accomplish.
Don’t be afraid to keep items in some goals private. Do not limit yourself based on what you assume other people will think about your goals. Write them down now, and keep the list private if you want., You should think big, but also small. A mix of big and small goals will give you things that you can accomplish regularly. Not every goal has to be something for the far future.


Create small goals that can lead you to your bigger goals. For example, dance at home, then take a dance lesson, then go dancing in public. When your small goals lead to your bigger goals, you will lead yourself to long term success.
Write something on your list that you can do today, tomorrow, and this week. If you include items you can accomplish in the short term, you will feel like you have created a list you can actually accomplish., Add to it, or take things away. After all, it is just a personal list. It is yours to expand, change, or reduce.


Keep this original list and continue to work with it. The list itself is important, because it serves as a reminder of all the things you want to do.
Be willing to change your list, but also think carefully before making changes. If you take adding and subtracting from the list seriously, you are more likely to take the items on the list seriously.
 Find inspiration outside of your usual routine. Keep a notebook with you when you are doing things like hobbies that you enjoy. You never know when a new and unique thought will cross your mind, and from a thought, a whole universe of possibilities emerge.


Try some new activities, go hiking, or just get away from your usual daily life. This can inspire you to think of goals that would not have occurred to you while sitting at home. , You should to consider talking to people who are older than you. Especially if you are young, you may not appreciate what many people later in life consider important.


Seek out people who have worked on their own bucket list and find out about their experience. Use their experience to help inform your own list.
Likewise, seek out people who are currently working on their own list. Talking with people who are working on a similar project as yourself can give you new ideas, and extra motivations.Again, do not be afraid to keep some or all of your list private, even as you talk with other people.
 Having developed a working list, it can help to ask more specific questions as a way of generating more ideas that are personally meaningful to you. These questions should take a personal tone. Examples of such questions include:


Who would I like to meet in my lifetime?
Is there anything I like to consume that I would like to make? (for example, if you enjoy watching films, would you like to make your own film?)
When do I find myself at my most content and happy? What other things could I do to replicate those circumstances?, Don’t contain your list writing to sitting at home and thinking. Pay attention to things you see and hear and think about how they might inspire you to add something to your list. Read books, magazines, journals, etc. on topics that have always interested you, but that you do not know much about.
Ask people about what inspires them and try to replicate those things for yourself.
 This may be easier for a young person, but with realistic ambitions, almost anyone can accomplish their dream. Making a list and then putting it aside to gather dust is what many will do, and therein lies the cause of so much regret when a person reaches the end of his or her life.


Set aside some time each weekend to look over your list and add an item or two. This will help prevent the list from stagnating, or worse, you from forgetting about it.Don’t be afraid to take something off your list. After a few weeks, one of your items may no longer seem desirable. Remember, it is your life and you are not beholden to everything you write down on the list. 