 This will make the sound that makes heavy metal sound heavy. If your guitar is in standard tuning (EBGDAE) play an Em with palm muting. Just play the first three strings (EAD). Example: The bridge on Raining Blood by Slayer.;
, Without them this will be useless. They give another heavy sound in the song. Power chords on the low E string sound great. Most metal songs use power chords, so it's basic. A great simple power chord progression is: Milk by Anthrax.
 It will sound great, awesome and heavy. Example: Harvester of Sorrow by Metallica.
 This will be more complicated but after you're in the right position you'll make it. Example: Master of Puppets by Metallica, Washington is Next! by Megadeth.
 The rhythm is the important thing, not the heaviness. In the 80's The Big Four didn't downtune their guitars. But, it makes playing easier. Some good downtunings are Open G, Drop D & Drop C. The Drop C gives a kinda mystical tone. Bands that use a lot of downtunings are System Of A Down (Drop C), Disturbed (Drop C, Drop D and others), Rise Against (Drop D) & Dream Theater's John Petrucci uses a different tuning for each song.
 You'll need these techniques: Sweep Picking, Bends, Vibratos, Tremolo Picking, Tapping, Slides, Hammer Ons, Pull-Offs, Thrills, String Skipping and if you want a little Zakk Wylde use some Pinch Harmonics. To get the hang of the soloing learn solos by Metallica (Master of Puppets album), Megadeth (Countdown to Extinction album), Slayer(Reign In Blood album), Anthrax & Dream Theater.
 You have to use scales, and working on them makes you a better all-around player. Just go up and down the scale slowly at first, then try to incorporate scales into your playing.
 Just pick up and down.
 They sound cool, they're fast and help your alternate picking. Try muting the triplets. Example: Disposable Heroes by Metallica.
 Heavy metal doesn't have any rules. If you want to make your songs heavy and dark use the above said scales. Harmonic minor gives a middle eastern feel, but you don't have to stick to a one scale. For a melodic sound use the minor scale.

