 Dictionaries contain definitions of words, their usage, and their origins. All of this information can help you decide if a given word is the right word to use in the section of text you're working on. Dictionaries are available in both hard-copy and online format; you may want to make use of both formats.


Use the dictionary to help you communicate better with your readers, not to inject fancy words into your writing that send them to the dictionary to understand what you're trying to say. Do use less-familiar words that can readers can figure out the meaning of from the context the words are used in.
Specialized dictionaries exist for certain industries that have their own jargon, such as information technology, the law, or medicine. If you write a certain type of fiction, such as medical thrillers, police procedures, or science fiction, you may want to get a dictionary devoted to specialized terminology to go alongside your general dictionary.
 A thesaurus is a listing of synonyms, grouping words and phrases together that have the same or similar meanings. Printed thesauruses are organized in 1 of 2 ways, either in dictionary fashion or with an index in the front, listing categories and code numbers for each subtopic, followed by the synonym groups that fall under those categories and code numbers. Online thesauruses feature a search field into which you type the word or phrase you want to find a synonym for and then list the synonyms grouped by the particular connotation (shade of meaning) of the word you typed.
 You can take advantage of vocabulary builders such as Word of the Day, in either day calendar or Internet form, and books such as "30 Days to a More Powerful Vocabulary."

, As you read, pay attention to how the writer uses words to paint a visual picture in your mind and look for ways to emulate those techniques in your own writing.
 Poetry makes considerable use of imagery and symbolism in the words it uses, as well as the meter and rhyme. Reading and writing poetry can help you learn to use words that convey images to others in your prose writing.
 Games such as Scrabble, Bananagrams, and Unspeakable Words help you develop and practice your vocabulary, with the competition against other players substituting for the pressure of a deadline to stimulate your thinking process.


Other word games, such as Boggle and Scattergories, test your ability to brainstorm as well as the extent of your vocabulary.
The game You've Been Sentenced tests your ability to use words effectively in making complete sentences.

