 Write a list of everything, no matter how big or small, that you are thankful for. Good examples include things like your family, lover, pets, comfortable home, etc. This will help you to appreciate how many positive things there are in your life because it requires you to shift your focus to what you have instead of what you do not have.When things aren't going so well, instead of ruminating about what isn't good, focus on this list of things that are positive in your life. Pay attention to the little things that you may sometimes take for granted such as shelter over your head and food in your stomach.
 Engaging in mindfulness techniques has been shown to reduce negative automatic thoughts.Mindfulness helps us shift our focus off of the negative. When people have this ability, they have less depression and anxiety. Shifting attention onto the positive prevents rumination, and it is an essential emotional regulation coping skill.Live in the present, not the future, and certainly not the past. Many people spend much of their time deeply regretting events that have already passed or worrying about what may happen, so they miss out on now. Accept that you can't change the past, but that you have a large amount of control over what you do in the present, which will influence your future.


Do mindfulness exercises such as paying direct and focused attention to what you are currently doing such as eating, cleaning, or other daily activities.Attempt to be fully present in the moment and take in everything you experience. Pay attention to how you feel in your body, what you see, and the sensations you have. Focus only on the activity you are engaged in.
 Life gives you new chances and opportunities at every moment. Setting goals for yourself can help to focus your energy on something positive instead of worrying about negative thinking.


Start by identifying a few goals you want to work on in the next 6 months. Examples of goals could be: applying for a job, finishing school, buying a car, getting more friends, or anything else that you want to accomplish. Make goals that are achievable and realistic. You can use a worksheet or create your own.Begin each day by focusing on what you are going to do to work toward your goals.
 This will prevent you from slipping into negative thoughts telling you that life is out to get you, when it isn't. Recognize that change is a part of life.


While some situations in life are definitely difficult (losing a job, losing a loved one), unfortunately some of these situations may be inevitable in life. Things simply may not work out the way we want to sometimes. Attempt to see these situations as opportunities for growth, or universal human experiences (such as loss) that you can get past.Develop personal mantras or positive affirmations that help you accept change such as, "Everything will work out the way it's supposed to," or, "Change opens new doors."