 Most chiffon pants are wide-leg palazzo pants. As a lightweight fabric that drapes well, chiffon adds elegance and shape to the otherwise boxy cut of the palazzo style.


You may even have trouble if you want to find chiffon pants cut to any other form. Chiffon is a material that doesn't have much structure on its own, so it is ill-suited for clothing meant to give shape and form to your body.
Wide-leg palazzo pants, on the other hand, have very little shape and can take full advantage of the breezy, easy-going sophistication of chiffon.;
, As with any garment, you need to make sure that the pants fit you properly. The surest way to verify an accurate fit is to try the pants on and take a good look at your legs in a full length mirror.


Chiffon pants are sized like any other style of trouser, so start by selecting a pair in your usual size.
If they fit correctly, the pants should fit snugly around your natural waist (the thinnest part of your mid-section) and drape down over the entire length of your leg, falling out around the ankle. The wide leg should not hug the curves of your leg too closely, so if you see any stretching down the length of the leg, that particular pair of pants might be too small.
 Before you buy a pair of chiffon pants or wear them around town, you should look at yourself in a full length mirror under bright light. Since chiffon is so light, it also tends to be see-through. Looking at yourself under a bright light will let you see how much can be viewed through the material.


Most clothing manufacturers take appropriate measures to allow you to show off your legs without showing off your unmentionables. Chiffon pants usually have a second short, inner layer near the top that covers the hip and upper thigh area.
Nonetheless, the wrong pair of chiffon pants can still produce a visible panty line, so checking the appearance is a good idea.
It's also best to wear white or nude colored undergarments beneath the chiffon pants since bright or dark colors can easily show through.
 Chiffon pants come in a wide range of colors and prints. When shopping for your first pair, you should think about where you plan to wear the pants and what you want them to say about your personal style.


If you want to ease your way into the style, consider white or black chiffon pants. White pants can look both casual and dressy depending on what you wear them with, so they'll offer you the most versatility. Black chiffon pants are a little more difficult to dress down, but they can create a look ranging between sexy and elegant.
For the more adventurous fashionistas, consider a pair of chiffon pants in a bright color or a bold print. You can find chiffon palazzo pants in colors like fire engine red and patterns like leopard print., Chiffon palazzo pants naturally elongate the appearance of your legs. To get the most benefit from this effect, wear high-waist tops or cropped tops that allow the full length of the pants to remain visible.


Try to look for a cropped top that lands directly at your natural waist—the skinniest part of your mid-section.
Another high-waist option that works well with chiffon pants is the tie-front blouse., If the top you plan to wear with your chiffon pants extends a little further than desired, consider tucking it in. Doing so still raises the position of your visible waist, making your legs look even longer as a result.


Tucking your shirt in also draws the material closer to your body, which highlights and flatters your figure, too.
 Since chiffon pants have a loose, flowing appearance, you should balance it out by wearing tops that are more structured and form-fitting.


Tank tops and other form-fitting sleeveless shirts are great for this purpose since they add as little bulk to the top of your body as possible and show off your curves.
If you're feeling especially daring, you could even try wearing a body suit. The lower half will be masked by the chiffon pants, leaving only the upper half visible.
 Layered tops are a good way to add visual interest and structure to the top half of your body in a way that balances out the loose structure of the chiffon pants. When layering your tops, however, you should make sure that the layers are slim instead of bulky.


For example, you could wear a tank top and slip an open vest or sleeveless button-down shirt over it. As long as both pieces are cut close to the body, they won't add too much weight to the top of your overall ensemble.
To create something a little more professional in appearance, slip a cropped blazer over a simple tank top or form-fitting blouse.
 Chiffon pants are definitely a unique fashion trend, so they tend to demand attention no matter what you pair them with. A good way to keep your outfit looking sophisticated and well put together is to pair this temporary fashion fad with a simple top cut in a timeless style.


Consider wearing a simple black tank top with white chiffon pants for an effortlessly elegant look. If you want to try for something a little more sultry, choose a black, red, or metallic-tone tank top with a low, strappy back., White chiffon palazzo pants have a very breezy, easy-going appearance. Pairing them with a plain white top creates an overall look that screams “summer at the beach.”The top doesn't necessarily need to be solid white, either. If you want to create this look with a blouse that has more detail, though, you should gravitate toward those that blend white with other neutral colors like black, tan, gray, or brown. A white and navy blue top could work, too.
 Chiffon pants can look elegant or easy-going depending on what you wear them with. Dress the pants down by matching them with a plain form-fitting t-shirt.


You should still pay attention to the “high waist” rule even when you pair these pants with a t-shirt. Choose a cropped t-shirt or tuck a longer t-shirt in.
Plain colors are often best if you want to create a style that is both classic and casual.
 If you want to wear chiffon pants to the office or to a party, you can make them look more elegant by matching them with a nice blouse. Keep the style of the blouse fairly simple so that it does not clash or compete with the pants.


Nearly any blouse that follows the "form-fitting" and "high-waist" rule can work well with chiffon palazzo pants.
The right chambray or similar button-down shirt can make the chiffon pants appropriate to wear to the office during an "business casual" dress day., High heels elongate the leg no matter what you choose to wear them with. As such, they are the perfect footwear to slip on when you wear chiffon pants, which also elongate the leg.


The heel style should vary based on the tone of the overall outfit. Classic pumps are great for more formal styles while wedges and sandals work better for casual or beach-inspired looks.
 A statement necklace or statement earrings work best. Placing the extra amount of detail around your face encourages onlooking eyes to look both up and down your ensemble.


Rings and bracelets, on the other hand, will cause the eye to drop to your sides whenever you lower your arms. This draws too much attention to your lower half and may make your look appear unbalanced.
 If you choose to carry a handbag, you should choose something that matches both the tone and color of your outfit. Since a purse spends a lot of time around your leg area, sticking with a simple style is a good way to avoid choosing anything that clashes or competes for attention with your chiffon pants.


Consider a simple clutch when you want to create a more formal look.
Larger purses can work well for a casual day out, for an informal dinner or lunch, or with business casual attire.
Bucket totes are great when you want to wear chiffon pants to the beach or to a similarly mellow setting.
 You'll want to look good from head to toe, but with a piece as eye-catching as chiffon pants, you'll need to spend a little extra time on your makeup if you want your pretty face to draw just as much attention.


As a general rule, you should focus on either your eyes or your lips instead of applying heavy makeup to both. If you wear a bright red lipstick, keep your eye makeup more subdued. If you opt for a dramatic shadowy look for your eyes, opt for a lipstick color that's closer to your natural lip color.
The occasion and tone of the overall outfit can make a difference, too. Casual daytime looks tend to work best with light makeup, but you can apply more dramatic makeup when working with sophisticated evening styles.

