 Terms like "eligible to win" or "free" are words that cruise scams use to draw victims to them. If a trip is indeed free, do not give out your credit card or banking information because you should not be charged anything.Other scam cruise lines will claim that the cruise is free but then charge port fees, taxes, staff gratuities, and a booking fee.These fees could all add up to be more expensive than booking a cruise with the liner.


If there is a deal that was offered or a promotion that you won but never registered for, it's possible that it's a scam.;
, Many timeshare presentations will have an offer of a free cruise attached to them.While purchasing a timeshare is your decision, the free cruises that are rewarded for attending these presentations have hidden fees attached to them. If you plan on attending a timeshare presentation just to get a free cruise you should reconsider.


A timeshare is when you obtain partial ownership over a vacation property and can use it a couple of weeks out of the year to vacation., Giving you an area code that appears to look like a local call but is actually a long distance number is another popular cruise scam. These calls can sometimes cost up to $5 per minute. If you are unsure of the origin of the number that the cruise line has asked you to call, do a quick search online to see where the call is located.


Avoid 900 numbers that begin in 876, 868, 809, 758, 784, 664, 473, 441, 284 or 246., Many cruise job scams exist online. Their aim is to gain your personal information and potentially steal your money. When looking for a cruise job, make sure that you use the cruise's official website rather than a job board. Legitimate cruise lines will almost never make an unsolicited offer to a private citizen, so beware of any jobs that give you an offer before you fill out an application or go on an interview.Legitimate cruise lines such as Royal Caribbean, Princess Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Cunard Line, Disney Cruise Lines, and Crystal Cruises all warn job applicants of potential fraudulent postings from cruise scammers.
 Contact your bank or credit card provider and ask if you can get a stop payment on your money before it gets processed. If you paid with a card, it's possible that your financial institution can stop the unauthorized payment. If the scammers have stolen your identity, your card company may transfer you to the fraud department, where you'll have to give a statement as to how you were scammed.Once you do that, then it's also advisable you contact your local law enforcement authorities and report the scam.

