 With all the improved high tech world and more beneficial communication tools, various organizations have found an interesting way to reach customers and improve customer service. Through social media, customers get exactly what they are looking for and receive better customer support and easier ways to contact an organization. Jump into the game changing strategy to increase company’s touch, use social media, if you are not because serving customers is social, too!;
,


Tweet to solve an issue. The much used phone conversations may help solve the problems but the wait time will not. A single tweet is enough to reach a lot of customers in just one click, which made Twitter a fast-lightning platform.
Build global image. Better customer service gets talked about, which may lead to better brand image and more sales. Twitter is one of the social media ways that may turn a single happy customer story to an international news.
Reduction in cost. Customers have better things to do than to be on call for hours because of a simple issue. With Twitter, the solution is quick, cheap and precise and it also reduces the call rates and time.
 Let the customers save through technology. There can be various reasons to use the chat functionality. Some consumers are not always comfortable or understand the solution on call or have a lot of patience to pick the phone to call the service center. Also online chat can be a great way to inform customers about your new services or to sell the complimentary helpful products. Whether the problem is about a bank account or online assistance, chat works great for customers and the company.
 Blog is the finest way to create a social customer service strategy using social media style. The World Wide Web has taught us to demand and get everything immediately without wasting much time and effort and blogs to do exactly the same. A blog post can solve customer query, market a product or service and advertise about the new improvements of the company. The regular and easy updates on the blogs keep the brand always in news. The comment section of the blog provides instant feedback about the product or service, which may turn the negatives into positives and develop brand image.
 If a lot of customers are facing a similar kind of issue and calling to ask the same questions, it is smarter to put the solution that is searchable globally by the users and the search engines. The customer can easily click on the product name, to sort out their issues. Also, a forum can provide various solutions to a single problem so that the customer can choose the most suitable one. Along with better and quick customer support, a forum may reduce your customer service admin calls, as the customers are getting the solutions through the net.
 Social networking sites have brought the world closer and made life easier and now its time for the organizations to use these channels as a means of providing better customer service. Sites like Facebook, Orkut and Myspace not just enable a company to communicate with the customers on various levels but also help solicit feedback, send out the update bulletins about the product and service and manage the reputation and the image of the brand. These sites bring you closer to the customers, which enhance customer support. Build community, start an event or social networking forum, the ultimate result would be, better brand image through proper customer service!

