 If you have committed a serious crime against another, it creates a heavier weight on your mind and heart.  You need to first address the guilt, and then you can move on to changing the inferiority feelings (ie.  do Method 2 first, and then move onto Method 1).
  Journal about this (you can burn the journal later, but it's helpful to get it out on paper).   Don't let yourself get away with excuses like "He had it coming.." or "She was dressed like she wanted it."  Your actions were your doing, not the fault of others.  This may be extremely difficult and painful, but you can do it and you must do it to let go of the effect it has on you.
   If you can trust someone else, make this vow in front of them.   Or do it in front of the forces of your spiritual beliefs.  For example, "I invite the force of good in the universe and I vow to never again hurt others.  I further vow to help others when possible."  Make it as memorable as possible.  Do a little ceremony.   If you can, get rid of any implements you used to cause harm to others (for example: knife, gun, handcuffs...).   If you have to, choose to work in a different career - one that helps, not hurts. Don't expect to keep your vow perfectly. Nobody is perfect. Just do the best you can. The intent matters.
  A mala is a Hindu or Buddhist necklace of 108 beads.  You can find them on online; do a Google search.  Catholics call them Rosaries.  There are also Muslim prayer beads.  Other types of beaded necklaces can also be used - just make sure there are about 100 beads and a way to tell that you've completed the necklace (like a stopper or counter bead).
, Your mind is more powerful than you think.  What we think and the moods that we harbor have an effect on others.  For example, you may have experience with sensing fear, anger, hatred, or love in others, without them saying anything.   You can use this '6th sense' power to help others too.  Find an affirmation or mantra that would affect others in a positive way were they to hear it.  For example:  "May you be well and happy."

, When you are going to sleep or just waking up is called the hypnogogic or hypnopomic state respectively.  These are very special times.  When you're half-asleep, your ego defense mechanisms are mostly offline.  This means that you can access your subconscious mind and utilize its power.   So take your beads to bed with you.
  Make it heart felt.  Don't say it without meaning.  -- Send those good wishes out to those you have harmed.  If your victim is deceased, send it out to their soul.  If you don't believe in souls, send it out to others like them.  For example: "may all children heal and prosper."    For each individual that you have harmed, send your affirmation out to them for 100,000 recitations - or until you feel the guilt lifting.
  Volunteer at the local animal shelter, in a food kitchen, or do handiwork for your neighbor free of charge.
  When you feel it is relieved, go onto method #1 to address any lingering feelings of inferiority in yourself.
  You have just turned your whole life around.  You have entered the Heroes journey!

