 A saline nasal spray helps to clear your nasal passages of mucus, and to moisturize your nasal passages. Use the spray as directed, and be patient. The first couple of uses may be helpful, but it will likely take repeated uses to get the full benefit., A neti-pot is a device that resembles a small teapot. Used correctly, a neti-pot flushes out mucus and trapped irritants, and moisturizes your sinus passages. The device works by putting saline or distilled water in one nostril and allowing it to drain out the other, removing unwanted irritants and germs, and provides a moisturizing and soothing effect to the sinuses. A neti-pot can be purchased inexpensively over-the-counter., Talk to your doctor before taking over-the-counter products if you have existing medical conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes, and glaucoma. Products like these can be helpful, but they don’t work for everyone.


Oral decongestants contain the active ingredients phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine. The more common side effects caused by these products include nervousness, dizziness, feeling that your heart rate is increased, slight elevations in blood pressure, and sleep problems.Oral decongestants work by narrowing blood vessels in the nasal passages, helping the swollen tissues to shrink. This improves the flow of mucus to reduce the pressure and the flow of air so you can breathe easier.Products that contain pseudoephedrine, originally marketed as Sudafed®, can be purchased without a prescription but are kept behind the pharmacy counter due to concerns about inappropriate use.You will be asked to provide identification, like a driver’s license, and your purchase will be recorded. This is only done for your safety to control the illegal use of pseudoephedrine., Decongestant nasal sprays or drops are also available over-the-counter but should be used with caution. While these products can help to clear sinus passages and relieve the pressure quickly, using them for more than 3 days results in a rebound effect.A rebound effect means that your body adjusts to the medications being used, and the congestion and pressure returns, or is possibly worse than before, when you try to stop using them. Limiting their use to no more than 3 days prevents that rebound effect., Sinusitis, or sinus pressure and congestion, can be caused by allergies. Taking an over-the-counter antihistamine, such as Claritin®, Zyrtec®, or their generic equivalents, can help to control the allergic response and relieve the symptoms you are experiencing., Acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or naproxen may help to reduce the discomfort associated with the sinus pressure. Taking ibuprofen or naproxen may also help to reduce some of the inflammation in the nasal passages.Other symptoms that may be helped by over-the-counter pain medications include the associated headache, and discomfort often described as an ache in the teeth., Use a warm, moist, towel placed against your face to help relieve the pressure and get the mucus and air moving again.Try alternating between hot and cold compresses. To do this, place a hot towel across the sinus areas on your face for 3 minutes. Switch to a cold damp cloth or towel for 30 seconds, then return to the hot towel. Repeat this procedure, alternating between hot and cold, for 3 cycles. Repeat the treatment about 4 times a day., Drinking fluids keeps your mucus from getting thick and blocking your sinuses. Drinking something warm, like a cup of hot soup or hot tea, can help to relieve the congestion and pressure. Plus, drinking fluids can help to counteract any dryness that may be caused by over-the-counter decongestants., Some people find it useful to eat spicy foods, like chili peppers, to help reduce the discomfort associated with sinus pressure., Bromelain is an enzyme derived from pineapples, and quercetin is a plant pigment. They may help relieve inflammation, swelling, and other symptoms of sinusitis. However, because they can interact with certain medications, you should always consult with your doctor before starting these or any other herbal treatment to ensure that they are safe for you.Bromelain may increase your risk of bleeding, so people who take blood-thinning drugs may not be able to use it.
Bromelain can cause a larger drop in blood pressure when used with ACE inhibitors.
Quercetin may interact with some medications, including antibiotics.
, Get plenty of rest and position yourself so that you can breathe. This may mean sleeping on your side, if that allows your nasal passages to open. You may benefit from sleeping in a more upright, or propped-up, position that allows you to breathe more comfortably., Pressing on specific areas of your face, located above your major sinus areas, can sometimes provide temporary relief.Pressure point areas include the area directly between your eyes, both sides of the nostrils, the bridge of the nose, under the cheeks, around your eyebrows, and the area that is centered just above your lips and under your nose. Gentle pressure, massage, or tapping in these areas may help to relieve some of the pressure., Chlorine in pools is a cause of sinusitis for many people. Other triggers may be more subtle, such as dust or pollen build up on your sheets and pillows. Regularly wash your bedding in warm or hot water to cut down on irritants that you may be breathing in while you sleepSome foods have been associated with sinus pressure and mucus build-up such as milk, cheese, and other dairy products. Other foods that cause problems include white rice, pasta and white bread. Clearly these food items do not affect everyone negatively. Try to identify any foods that may trigger your sinus pressure problems.Avoid alcohol while you have sinus pressure. Drinking alcoholic beverages can cause the swelling in your sinus passages to get worse., Moisture in the air helps to keep your nasal passages moist, and allows the mucus to move freely and relieve the pressure. Breathing dry air can cause mucus to thicken, and cause the sinuses to become irritated., Humidifiers are available in many sizes and with different features. Basic humidifiers are available as either cool-mist or warm-mist. Choose a humidifier that best meets your needs, and your budget. A humidifier increases the moisture in the air to help treat, and prevent, dry nasal passages that can lead to sinus pressure and congestion.Cool-mist humidifiers usually have a filter that needs attention every few months to avoid fungal growth. Many cool mist varieties can produce enough moisture for an entire home, and may be a safer option if you have children.Warm-mist humidifiers use a heating element that creates steam. An advantage to warm-mist humidifiers is that they kill bacteria and fungi since steam is produced in the process of adding moisture to the air., Place a small pot, partially filled with water, on a burner on your stove, and let it simmer. This is a great way to add moisture to the air, but requires added attention and a strong focus on safety. Pay attention to safety measures with this method to avoid damage and possible injury., Very carefully, place a towel over your head and position yourself above the simmering water. Then breathe in the warm and moisture-filled air to help relieve your sinus pressure. Breathing steam is an effective method of providing moisture to your sinuses, but the risk of injury may warrant trying other methods first. This requires serious attention to safety measures to avoid injury., Safely placing a heat-safe container near a radiator or other source of heat causes the water to evaporate, increases the humidity, and adds moisture to the air. The container does not need to be placed directly on top of the heat source, but close enough to allow the water to evaporate.Consider using a damp towel as your water source, and place the towel over a heat vent. When the heat is on, the dampened towel will help to improve the moisture in the air. Take care not to damage flooring, or permanently block the vent., Let the shower run using hot water. Close the shower door, the bathroom door, and the door to the adjacent room for 5 minutes. Then turn off the water and open the doors. This is a good method to increase the level of humidity in the air. This may not be for everyone, since in some areas, using more water than normal is an added monthly cost., Consider adding an indoor retractable clothesline, or support bar, to a room in your home. Drying your clothes this way increases the humidity of the inside air. Between washer loads, use dampened towels hanging from the line., Use a spray bottle to dampen the curtains, then open the windows and allow the airflow to help add moisture to the inside air. Take care not to damage fabric, and avoid opening your window if pollen, or other outdoor irritants, are part of your sinus pressure problem., The United States Geological Society recommends adding a houseplant to increase the moisture in the air. When the houseplant is watered, the moisture is transferred from the roots of the plant to the stems and pores in the leaves, and adds moisture to the room air., Even simple bowls containing fresh water, can add moisture to the air. Place small bowls or containers of water, possibly decorated with artificial flowers or glass marbles, throughout your home. Consider placing the containers near a heat source, such as a radiator.Get a fish tank or indoor fountain. Adding an appliance that contains water, like a fish tank or fountain, can help to provide moisture in the room air. In addition, they may help to provide a more relaxing atmosphere or add to your décor. These involve additional expenses, plus are dependent on personal preference., Continued sinus pressure, congestion, pain, or running a fever, may indicate that you have developed a sinus infection.When your sinuses get blocked with congestion, the mucus and bacteria that is normally produced gets trapped. If the congestion and pressure are not relieved, the trapped bacteria can lead to a sinus infection. You may also get a viral sinus infection if the congestion and pressure was caused by a cold or the flu., If your doctor determines that you have developed a sinus infection, antibiotics may be prescribed for you. Be sure you take them exactly as prescribed, and for the full duration of the prescription. Even if you start to feel better quickly, finish the prescription since the bacteria can still be lingering in your sinus passages., The discomfort that is caused by sinusitis is very similar to the headache pain caused by migraines. In fact, studies have shown that as many as 90% of people that seek medical attention for sinus pressure headaches are actually experiencing a migraine.Talk to your doctor if you have headache symptoms for more than 15 days each month, if you frequently take over-the-counter medications for headache pain, if you find the over-the-counter medications do not help, or if the symptoms interfere with your daily life, like attending work or school. These are typical warning signs of migraine headaches.