 Once the motor is started, you'll notice that the tines still aren't turning. To engage the tines, squeeze the levers under each handle to spin the tines.On a tiller with the tines in front, the forward motion is controlled by you. To prevent the tiller from moving forward when the tines are engaged, you'll have to pull back on the handles to hold the machine in place.
 When you want to move forward and till the ground, raise the handles upward to tip the tines downward into the soil. As you push the tines into the ground, they will begin to churn the soil. Walk forward at a normal walking pace, keeping the tiller tipped at the same depth.


As you push the tiller forward, the tines will continue breaking up all the soil they come into contact with.
 When you get to the end of your first row, push the machine forward in a curving motion to turn it around. Rather than trying to till the soil in the row directly beside you, move over by one row to till your next pass.


Backyard tillers aren't always easy to turn, and tilling every other row will make it easier to maneuver the machine., Once you’ve gone over each row and tilled the entire area once, repeat the same process, working in the opposite direction. For instance, if you tilled in horizontal passes the first time around, do vertical passes this time.On the second pass, push the tines farther into the soil to till at a deeper depth.
Changing your direction and making two passes with the tiller will ensure you fully till all the soil and blend in all the organic matter.
 When you’ve finished tilling the soil, release the levers under the handles to stop the tines from moving. Turn the machine off by flicking the switch on the engine.
 A hand tiller is a manual, non-motorized tiller. Some hand tillers have a bladed wheel that let you push the tiller forward when it’s in the ground, but others have to be moved from one spot to another. To start, push the blades or spikes into the soil to the right tilling depth for your garden, usually between 6 and 8 inches (15 and 20 cm).


For a tiller with a bladed wheel, push the tiller forward while it’s in the ground. This will rotate the blades and till the soil.
For a tiller without the wheel, twist the tiller as you pull it straight out of the ground. Move the tiller over to an adjacent patch of soil, insert the spikes and repeat.

