 Frozen foods retain their nutrients. Sometimes, frozen produce can actually be more nutritious than fresh produce, since frozen produce is picked at peak ripeness. Moreover, frozen fruits and vegetables are often significantly cheaper than their fresh counterparts, and you can buy frozen foods in bulk as long as you have the freezer space.;
, Fruits and vegetables cost less when they are in season. Seasonal difficulties can occasionally lead to a decrease in crop output, however, which may drive up the price of certain types of produce. Make a note of which seasonal fruits and vegetables are cheapest during any given season.
 Eggs are high in protein and cost much less than most meats. Moreover, they are surprisingly healthy. Although popular opinion links the consumption of eggs to increased cholesterol, many studies suggest that eggs are nowhere near as harmful as the breakfast meats often served alongside them, which may have led to the misconception in the first place., Beans are easy to store and extremely cheap. They are high in fiber and protein, and you have a wide variety to choose from.
 Purchasing a whole chicken costs less per serving than boneless breasts. You can also save the bones to make chicken stock later on, saving you from the cost of store-bought stock.
 Tender cuts of beef and pork can be extremely expensive, but tougher cuts tend to cost a little less. These cuts can be just as appetizing if roasted slowly in low heat.
 Fresh seafood can be extremely expensive, but canned tuna and canned salmon are both relatively cheap and contain excellent amounts of omega-3 fatty acids and protein.
 Milk is more nutritious than soda or coffee, and the price per glass is cheaper than either alternative.
 Both products can be bought in bulk and last for several years before expiring. Brown rice and whole-grain pasta typically costs the same as their processed counterparts and may offer more health benefits.
 Skipping out on bottled water can save you a significant amount of money every year.
 The generic store brand will ultimately prove vastly cheaper than the name brand for virtually any product. Additionally, most generic brands offer the same amount of nutrition as their name-brand counterparts.

