 In order to get an accurate transmission fluid reading, you will need to check it while your transmission is running and the fluid is warm. Keep your car in park, with the handbrake on, while you check the transmission fluid. Note that some vehicles are checked in the neutral position. Reference your owner's manual for the proper position of your car's shifter.









If you've just finished driving your car around for 30 minutes or longer, it's a good idea to let your engine idle a few minutes before you check the trans fluid.This will allow the temperature of the fluid to normalize the operating condition.
Note that some cars may also have a "cold" reading on the transmission dipstick. Even if this is the case in your vehicle, you should still turn your engine on and get the trans fluid heated up in order to get an accurate reading.;
, If you check the trans fluid cold — i.e. not having driven anywhere and not having run through all the transmission gears — inspection of the transmission dipstick will give you an inaccurate reading. It will appear as if you have far too much transmission fluid in your car. To avoid this, cycle through all the gears in your car to help circulate the transmission fluid evenly.
 Remember to set the parking brake, especially if you're leaving the car in neutral. On some cars, it is easy to mistake the transmission dipstick for the crankcase oil dipstick, so make sure you are clear on the location of your transmission.









Look towards the back of the engine, near the firewall. This is where the transmission is located on most cars with rear-wheel drive.On cars with front-wheel drive, the transmission dipstick is usually located in the front of the engine, connected to the transaxle. This isn't universally true, however, so you should look in your owner's manual or for labels around and on the dipstick to see which one it is., This will help give you an accurate reading.
 You should now be able to see what level your transmission fluid reaches. Remember to read the "hot" level on the transmission dipstick.
 Your car's engine should be running when you add fluid to the transmission, but you want to have the transmission in park and the handbrake activated for safety reasons.
 This will tell you what type of transmission fluid to use, and whether there are special instructions for adding fluid.









The transmission dipstick itself might also tell you what kind of transmission fluid the transmission takes. Note that there are several different kinds, each with specifications that make it favorable for that engine's transmission.
Also look for instructions on how frequently to change your transmission fluid. While you can add fluid when it gets low, many car manufacturers recommend a transmission fluid change every 30,000 to 100,000 miles (48,000 to 161,000 km), depending on your car.
 It will need to be a fairly long funnel to ensure you do not overfill.
 Add a little at a time so you do not overfill. How much transmission fluid do you add to your vehicle? It depends on what you're doing:









Are you topping off fluid level? If you notice the transmission fluid is a little low on the dipstick, start with a half a quart to a quart of transmission fluid. Recheck the level and add 1/4 quart at a time till the level is up to the full or max mark.
Are you doing a transmission service, where you drop the pan and replace the filter? This kind of service regularly needs 4 to 5 quarts of transmission fluid in order to replace what was lost in the pan.
Are you replacing the entire transmission fluid? It could take anywhere from 9 to 13 quarts of transmission fluid to adequately replace the entire transmission fluid.
 This will help circulate all of the transmission fluid and make sure you're getting the correct reading.
 You may not need to add more transmission fluid, but if you do, you'll want to add the fluid gradually rather than pouring all at once. Again, most vehicles will not need more than 1 pint (0.5 liter).
 You will need to turn it until it locks or press down a latch on the top of the dipstick to lock it into place.








