 If you're not sure which terminals you'll be using, look up your airline on the list below this map. If that doesn't answer your question, call your airline's customer service number and ask.


Do not assume your international flight uses the International Terminal (TBIT). It could arrive or depart at any terminal used by that airline.;
, You can plan your route using this map, or follow these tips:


Terminals 1 to 3 are on the north side.
Terminals 4 through 8 are on the south side.
Tom Bradley International Terminal is at the west end of the airport, between terminals 3 and 4.
You can cross between the north and south sides only on the lower arrivals level.
 You cannot leave these terminals without exiting secure areas. This means you will need to pass security again, which can take anywhere from 5 to 45 minutes depending on the terminal and time of day. Look up a security wait estimate by entering LAX along with your arrival time and day of the week at whatsbusy.com.


For real time updates the day of your flight, check MyTSA. If there is a long line for your departure terminal, it may be faster to enter security at a nearby terminal with an airside connection to yours.
 These terminals are connected "airside," meaning you can transfer between them without having to enter security again. To do this, use the walkways:


TBIT and Terminal 4 are connected by a walkway.
Terminals 4 through 6 are connected by tunnels near the terminal center.
Terminals 6 through 8 are connected by walkways near the terminal exit.If you arrived on an international flight, you will still need to go through security. However, there is a security check in the walkway between TBIT and T4, which is often faster than leaving TBIT and passing security at another terminal., This map allows for a slower walking pace than the official site, so using it will give you a margin of safety. Here's a summary if you can't load the page:5 minutes for each step on this route: T1 → T2 → T3 → International → T4.
8 to 10 minutes for each of these steps: T4 → T5 → T6 → T7 → T8.
5 minutes to cross between the north and south side (roughly between T1 and T7, or T3 and T5).
 Free shuttles between terminals depart every ten to fifteen minutes at all times. Walk to the front of the terminal and look for blue signs with the letters "LAX" and a picture of a bus. The stops are labeled "LAX Shuttle & Airline Connections."You will have to leave the secure area to take this shuttle, which means another security check at your departure terminal.


The shuttle travels counter-clockwise around the airport, moving from terminals 1 to 3, then to Tom Bradley International Terminal, then through terminals 4 to 8, then back to 1. There are about 2 to 4 minutes between stops, depending on traffic.
All shuttles are wheelchair accessible., Visit http://www.ridelax.com/ to view a live map of all airport shuttles, or to download it as a phone app. This includes additional shuttles that do not make all terminal stops, which could save you a couple minutes.


You cannot use the Green line (G) unless you have a Los Angeles TAP card.Make sure to check whether the shuttle leaves from the lower arrivals level or the upper departures level.
 This small, remote terminal is only reachable by bus from Terminals 4 (Gate 44 is actually a bus stop) or 6 (near Gate 60). Add at least 30 minutes to your transfer time if you need to go between this terminal and the main airport, as there are often long lines. This terminal is only used for some (not all) domestic American Airline and Alaskan Airline flights.
 Airline staff will usually transfer your checked baggage for you, so you do not need to pick it up until your final destination. This isn't always true, though, so ask about this when you first check your bags. Typically, you will only need to pick up your bags and recheck them during these types of transfers:


If you are arriving on an international flight, you will need to pick up your bags and take them through customs.
If you booked the two legs of your flight separately, you probably need to pick up your bags and recheck them with your departing airline.
If you booked the two legs at the same time but the tickets list two different airlines, you probably don't need to recheck, but make sure to ask.
 The baggage connection is located outside the secure area. If you need to pick up your bags, you cannot take advantage of the walkways between Terminals 4–8 and TBIT that allow you to transfer without security.


The amount of time this takes varies depending on the time and day of the week. Check whatsbusy.com for an estimate.
 All passengers arriving from another country will need to pick up their bags, then go through customs and border control. Allow at least 45 minutes for this process. Wait times of 60 to 90 minutes are not unheard of.For a more accurate estimate of wait times, check http://awt.cbp.gov/ for days and times that match your trip.
Security usually takes longer for people traveling on a non-American passport.
To get through this as fast as possible, have your documents ready and fill out your customs form on the plane.
 Now you have the information you need to estimate your transfer time. As a general rule, 60 to 90 minutes should be enough for a transfer between domestic flights that doesn't require leaving security. Two hours is more reasonable for domestic transfers that require leaving security and rechecking, and three hours is a good idea if arriving from another country.


Extra time is always a good idea. 23% of flights arriving in LAX are late.You can look up your specific flight number on flight stats websites to see your flight's record of delays.
 If it's not clear whether you'll be able to make the connection, talk to the airlines you booked the tickets with. If you bought the tickets at the same time and the airline you arrive on is late, the airline should help you find another flight. If you bought the tickets separately, you will likely need to buy a new departure ticket if you miss the transfer. Find out when the next flight to your destination is in advance and let the people at your final destination know there's a chance you'll be late.


If you're worried about the transfer time, try to get a seat near the front exit of the plane. If you're stuck at the back, try asking a passenger at the front to switch with you before descent so you can make your connection.

