 Before starting CPR, you’ll need to check and see if the victim in conscious. Do this by shouting “Are you okay?” while tapping the victim on the shoulder. If the victim is unconscious or clearly has a severe injury, call 9-1-1 immediately.

If the unconsciousness is due to asphyxiation from being buried in the snow, begin CPR for 1 minute, and then call for help afterward.
 Start CPR on the unconscious victim by doing chest compressions. Perform quality compressions by following these guidelines:Place your hands in the middle of the person’s chest, one hand on top of the other, with the heel of your hand against their chest over the sternum (the flat bone between the ribs in the middle of the chest).
Lean forward over the person so your arms are straight. Use your bodyweight to help you do compressions.
Compress the victim’s chest with the heels of your hands to a depth of 2 inches (about 5 cm). Compress the chest 100 times per minute. This depth and rate can be tiring – you should feel resistance.
 Use your fingers to remove any debris that has gotten into their mouth. Tilt the victim’s head back slightly to lift the chin and better open the airway.Put your cheek next to the victims mouth so that you can listen and feel for any signs of normal breathing.Normal CPR suggests doing this for 5-10 seconds, but if the patient is hypothermic (which is likely), their breathing will be very slow, so check for about 30-45 seconds.Occasional gasping sounds don’t count as normal breathing.
 If the victim is not breathing for themselves, alternate 2 rescue breaths with every 30 chest compressions.

Tilt the victim’s head back slightly and lift their chin to open the airway. Pinch their nose closed with one hand. Put your mouth over the victim’s mouth to make a seal and blow into their mouth. Blow into the victim’s mouth. Watch to be sure their chest rises when you give a breath. If not, tilt the head, lift the chin, and breathe again. Be careful not to provide too many breaths or to breathe with too much force.If you have a second uninjured person present, use the Jaw Thrust maneuver to open the victim’s airway rather than tilting their head back – this can be safer for spinal injury victims. Kneel at the top of the victim’s head, and place your hands one on each side of their face with your fingers hooked under the angle of their jaw. Lift upward (toward you) with both hands.The other uninjured party will provide chest compressions and rescue breaths.
Do not do compression-only CPR – in an avalanche situation, oxygenation is very important., If the patient has no pulse and/or is not breathing, start CPR right away. Spend a lot longer than traditional cardiopulmonary resuscitation would suggest because the victim is likely suffering from hypothermia. The old adage, “A patient isn’t dead until he’s warm and dead” applies here, to an extent. If a victim was buried for longer than 35 minutes, their chance of survival is low even with CPR. If they were dug out early enough, however, providing CPR for as long as possible, at least 30 minutes, can save a life.


CPR can be tiring, especially in severe climates. If you have a companion, switch off doing high-quality CPR every 2 minutes.
 Move the victim only if it is absolutely necessary; otherwise, keep them where they are and dig around them. Avalanches can carry trees, boulders and other large objects that can hit a body and possibly cause severe trauma, including a spinal cord injury. Until you are certain that these types of injuries are not present, you should not move an accident victim.


Treat anyone with a head, neck, or back injury as if they have a spinal injury.If possible, stabilize the patient using a neck brace and back-board.
If you have to move the victim to ensure their safety and you have no stabilizing equipment, pull them by their clothing or by both arms or legs, and pull them in a straight line. This can keep spinal movement to a minimum. Do NOT twist their body or pull them by only one side of their body – this can move the spine out of alignment and worsen spinal injuries.

