 Building a portable projector screen can be a fun way to allow you to watch movies in any location that has electricity. The screen and frame will require you to purchase some easy to find materials from nearly any hardware store. Take a look at the following materials and tools that you will need to get started:Something to cut PVC pipe with.
A glue for PVC pipes.
Twenty feet of rope or cord.
A drill to make holes in the PVC pipes.
6 10' long sections of 1” diameter PVC pipes.
8 1” diameter, 90 degree PVC elbows.
2 1” diameter, 45 degree PVC elbows.
1 straight connector
6 1” diameter T connectors
Tape
1 6'x8' white tarp.
 The PVC pipes that you bought will need to be cut down to the right sizes before you can begin assembling them together. It's important that you measure them carefully and make your cuts accurate. Double check that your cuts are the right ones by taking a look at this list:Cut two pipes to be 8' 6”. Save the parts you cut away.
Cut two pipes to be 6' 6”. Save the pieces you cut off.
Cut two pipes to be 6' 3”. Don't throw the scrap away.
 After you have all of your pieces assembled and your pipes cut to the length you can begin assembling the screen. Since PVC pipes are standardized, building the screen will require you to simply connect the pieces to one another. Take a look at the following order of connections to build your frame:Connect the two 8'6” pipes to the 6'6” pipes using your 90 degree connectors. This builds the bottom rectangular base.
Add three T-connecters to the 8'6” pipes. They should be spaced two feet apart from each other and the corners.
On the back of the base, place the 3'6” pieces of pipes into the T-connectors closest to the corners.
Put ninety degree elbows on these 3'6” pipes and then add the 1'6” piece out of them. Add a 45 degree elbow on the end of that pipe.
From those 45 degree elbows, connect the 6'3” pieces and connect them down to the front T-connectors.
Use a straight connector to join the two 3'9” pipes. Add a ninety degree elbow to each end.
Take a small 3” piece of pipe and join this long pipe to the center T-connectors.
 After your screen is setup you can add your tarp to finish off your portable projector screen. Adding the tarp will require you to drill some holes in the pipe, running your cord through them and attaching the screen to the frame.Drill holes in the four corners of your frame.
Put your cord through the holes.
Thread the cord down the length of the frame, putting it through the eye-holes of the tarp as you go.
Tie the cords off to secure the screen in place.

