 To build this directional antenna, you will need an N-Female chassis mount connector, four #6x1/4" nuts and bolts, 1 1/4" (32 mm) copper wire, pigtail patch cable, and an empty aluminum can.


You will also need a drill, a soldering iron, and a screwdriver that fits the bolts
A pigtail cable is a patch cable with a connector at both ends of the cable.
The aluminum can should have one side without a lid and one side with a metal bottom.
 The can's diameter determines where the connector is mounted. Your can should be at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide, but can be as big as 6 inches (15.2 cm).
 Measure up from the bottom of the can and mark the outside where the connector will be. The measurement will vary depending on the diameter of the can. This measurement is determined for maximum signal strength. Below are some common measurements:


3 inches (7.6 cm) - 3.74 inches (9.5 cm)
3.5 inches (8.9 cm) - 2.07 inches (5.25 cm)
6 inches (15.2 cm) - 1.38 inches (3.5 cm)

, Use a drill bit the same size as the small side of the N-Female connector to drill a whole where you measure. You can also use a hammer and nail if you don't have a drill.


If your N-Female connector has screw holes, drill smaller holes around your larger one to allow you to mount it with the nuts and bolts.
 Take your copper wire and line it up the the metal connector on the small side of the N-Female connector. The little brass tube and the length of the wire should total 1.21 inches (3.07 cm) when lined up. Get as close to this measurement as physically possible for the best connection.
 Use the soldering iron to attach the wire to the brass tube on the back of the N-Female connector. This creates the probe. See this guide for details on soldering. The wire should be sticking straight out from the connector.
 After the solder has finished cooling, mount the probe to the can with the wire on the inside and the screw connector on the outside. Use the nuts and bolts to secure the probe to the can.
 Screw the pigtail cable onto the probe mount, and then connect the other end to your wireless card's antenna connector.
 The can will need to be pointed directly at the wireless access point. You can mount it to a camera tripod with a zip tie for easy pointing.The range you can achieve with your antenna will vary depending on the size of the can, the accuracy of your measurements, and any interference between the antenna and the access point.

