 Think about where you see yourself professionally in 3 to 5 years. Your goal may be to earn a promotion, start your own company, switch to a different career or work fewer hours. Be specific about your long-term goals, including all details about the type of job you ultimately want and the activities of your day-to-day life.;
, Determine how far you are from reaching your ultimate goal. If you want to become the manager of your own store, for example, think about the steps and skills necessary for achieving your goal. An increase in product knowledge, greater skill in employee management or stronger sales abilities are examples of necessary competencies.
 Strong computer skills, analytical ability and marketing knowledge are examples of strengths. List all of your highly developed skills, even if you do not utilize them in your current work situation. Review your work history and recall feedback from past supervisors and co-workers to help you develop this list.
 Write down areas in need of improvement. Write them as positive statements, such as, "develop organizational skills" or "gain knowledge of XYZ software application."


Speak to your supervisor, co-workers and others who are familiar with your work habits. Ask them to identify skills that you can further develop to help you reach your professional goals.
 Review your list of weaknesses and identify the areas that are critical components of achieving your long-term goals. If your goal is to manage a team, for example, and you find it difficult to deal with conflicts and stress, focus on strengthening this skill. Find an employee management class that teaches techniques in conflict resolution.


Determine if you prefer self-directed study, hands-on practice or a traditional classroom environment for developing skills.
 Be realistic. Some skills require extensive study and practice before they become strengths. Consult with your supervisor, guidance counselor, co-workers and others who may have insights about a reasonable time line for developing each skill.
 Ask others whose observations you trust for feedback on your skills development progress. Stay focused on your goals by posting reminders on your calendar or on post-it notes. Display inspiring images on your desk or refrigerator, such as a picture of your ideal career life or symbols of the prosperity your new skills will bring.

