 Buildings in your base may start to cost more than 500,000 to 1 million gold or elixir, starting at town hall 6. Upgrade your resource buildings as soon as possible in order to gain more loot at a time - your defense buildings should be next. Save as much gold and elixir as you can. Use up all your resources before you log off so no one will steal it. Train troops in your army camps that do not require a lot of elixir for a costly combination.


Use the Barch Strategy. Train up some archers and barbarians, enough to take out a small high level village. It is also inexpensive and also gets trained quickly. Spells can be taken into battle as well, but they may be a bit too expensive.

Find a base with plenty of resources and spread your archers around the closest resource buildings. Attack a village with very nearby resource buildings and vaults that are full. If it has at least 90,000 loot, it is a worthy base to attack. Make sure you can get to the loot easily. Send in your barbarians for back up and wait until your troops collect as much of the loot as possible. It doesn't matter if you win or not - as long as you get all the resources, you're okay.
 If you upgrade your buildings as soon as possible, you will be able to collect more loot each time you go on. Do not upgrade your vaults yet - you will be holding too much loot. Level up your vaults once your most expensive buildings have been finished upgrading. Use any extra loot on upgrading walls or resetting traps/defenses, until there is no more loot you can spend.
 Level up most of your archer towers and cannons first since they are pretty low damage defenses, and can be easy to upgrade. Upgrade all your archer towers at once, then your cannons so that your archer towers can do more damage to ground and flying troops. Upgrade your bombs and other traps since they do not cost much.
 Raid a lot and do Clan wars in your Clan in order to get a large amount of loot for these buildings. X-bows, Inferno towers, and other large defenses cost a huge amount of resources to upgrade. Collect your treasury bonus only when necessary in order to save it as well as the Clan war bonus.


Consider buying a shield. If you have extra loot, but are so close to having enough to upgrade a large building, do not spend it. If you leave it, you will get attacked, and your loot may get stolen. Buy at least a village guard in order to give you just enough time to get the small amount of loot you need to finish upgrading a large building. Use any extra time from the shield or village guard to collect more loot.
 Upgrade your Clan Castle first. The Clan castle costs more than a million gold starting at town hall 5. Use village guards to protect your loot and attack during these two hours so that you can gain more gold. Upgrade your Army Camps as well in order to hold more troops to attack.


Village guards allow you to attack freely as much as you want. Buy a village guard for 10 gems each day whenever you are about to attack nonstop gaining resources quickly.
 Upgrade your laboratory, spell factory, etc. Level up all your buildings to the max level until you have the strongest base you can have. Upgrade your town hall after and start to work on upgrading your defenses to become even more stronger.

