 Examples include a children's book, a newspaper article, a short story, or something on wikiHow.;
, Pick books depending on your reading level, no matter what your age. It should be something that you find interesting. Otherwise, you will not feel like sticking to it. Reading is about enjoying the experience while learning something.


You could choose interesting and easy-to-read books such as comic books, or more complex books like epic novels and non-fiction.
 This may be someplace secret where no one will bother you, or simply your home at a time when it is quiet.
 Any time is a good time to read. But if you can set aside some time everyday, that will help in developing a reading habit.

Pick up something to read when travelling on the bus or train. This is a good way to pass time and you can train yourself to read faster and comprehend more despite the distractions around.
, Or there could be maps depicting the place described in the book. Be sure to look at all that.
 If you cannot speed read, then do not push yourself to read faster. The whole point of reading is to understand what the author is conveying. No sense in skimming through the content.


Ask yourself the five Ws- Why, What, Who, When, and Where. This will guide your reading.
 This can aid good pronunciation and word recognition.

Sound out each word as best you can based on what you hear. Remember, pronunciation of English words could be different depending on what type of English it is (American or British) and depending on the context (like heteronyms- project can be both verb and noun) and you will notice they form some sort of word.






Pay attention to the stresses in words and sentences.
 When you start getting bored or need a break, take one. Reading should be fun and enjoyable, don't force it. After your break, return to where you were, and continue.
 It is okay to reread something if you do not understand it fully the first time.
 Context clues are when a person figures out the meaning of a word by seeing how the word was used in a sentence. For example, you were reading the following sentence and wanted to know what 'pessimist' means:My mother is always happy and optimistic, the total opposite of my brother, the pessimist. So from the sentence, you can gather that 'pessimist' means the opposite of happy, so pessimist means being moody and angry. Good, experienced readers always use context clues! If you find a word that you're totally stumped on, use the dictionary! If you want to save time and the hassle of turning pages, go to the online dictionary.
 Read that portion out in front of a mirror, out loud. Memorizing can improve your confidence with reading.
 If you don't understand what you are reading, read the sentence(s) again. Try reading the words out loud to yourself. If you still don't understand something, ask a good reader nearby to explain the sentence(s) to you, or simply pick up a book that is easier to read and more appropriate to your reading level. Feel free to use your finger as a pointer. It will keep your eyes focused on the line you are reading, improving your understanding.
 Try to read as much as you can in your free time. Reading will help you in lots of ways; your vocabulary will become larger and more sophisticated and you will notice your grades change for the better in school. Have fun reading!

