 If living in a suitable Mediterranean climate, you can grow your own kaffir lime tree. If not, leaves and limes can be obtained in fresh and a dried form from Asian grocery stores and specialty grocery stores in many countries.;
, Kaffir lime leaves may be used fresh or dried, depending on the recipe or usage. Importantly:


The leaves should be used whole when simmering in soups and curries, and may be shredded for use in fish cakes or similar dishes. The leaf is rarely eaten; the one exception is when it is shredded extremely finely, such as for Tod Mun (fried fish cake).Fresh, tender young leaves are the preferred choice for salads; do not use dried kaffir leaves in salads.The midrib and stalk may be bitter in older leaves; if this bitterness bothers you, tear the leaf and remove these parts for cooking, including simmering.
 Kaffir lime leaves are perfect for adding flavour to Asian cuisine. They are highly aromatic and add their own elegant flavour to stir-fry, curry, salad and fish cake dishes. Some examples for use include:


Thai curry dishes and soups, such as Tom Yum
Indonesian curry dishes
Thai fish cakes, e.g., Tod Mun and steamed fish dishes, e.g., Haw Moak
Asian bouquet garni - make up with kaffir lime leaves, lemongrass and ginger as the bouquet garni ingredients and use to flavour stock
Krueng - a paste using Kaffir lime leaves as the base
Flavour rice - When cooking your rice, especially jasmine rice, throw in a few leaves. The flavour will be imparted to the rice.
Add to a marinade - suitable for chicken, pork or lamb dishes.
Make a syrup - add a kaffir lime leaf to sugar overnight and use the sugar to make a syrup the next day.
Use Kaffir lime leaves in hot and sour shrimp soup. Dry the leaves under direct sunlight; this will bring out more aroma than using fresh leaves. Put the leaves in the soup for about 1 minute before you finish making it.
 Add some fresh leaves to a hot bath. A delightful fragrance will waft from your bathwater.
 The scent will linger in the evening air when eating outdoors.
 Use a bruised kaffir lime leaf to rub over your hands. This will freshen them and impart a delicious scent to your skin. Naturally, test a small area of skin for reactions before using this treat regularly.

