 It is easy for little bites and snacks to add up to lots of extra calories in a day. Therefore, keeping track of how many calories you eat in a day is essential for avoiding weight gain. Start tracking everything you eat and drink throughout the day.

You can write down what you eat in a journal and look up the calories or use a smartphone app to track your calories.
Pay attention to small bites and snacks that you have throughout the day. For example, if you go to a party, make sure that you write down the bite-sized sausages, cookies, and beverages you consumed.;
, When you're busy in the fall, it can be easy to skip a meal. The problem is, you end up at a party or gathering, and then you eat more than you should. Try to keep your blood sugar steady by eating at least three meals a day or five to six smaller meals, if you prefer.If you plan on indulging later in the day, try eating smaller, healthier meals, such as a lean protein with a veggie. You could try hummus with celery sticks.
 You've heard it before, and you'll hear it again: you need to make fruits and vegetables an integral part of your diet. You should be eating at least seven servings of fruits and vegetables every day. When you fill up on these options, you're less likely to overindulge in higher-calorie foods.During the fall, you have plenty of options for fresh fruits and veggies, including pumpkins, pomegranates, and apples. You'll also find winter greens and root vegetables, such as Brussels sprouts, kale, turnips, and cabbage., When you're not at a party, try to make your protein choices lean ones. Think skinless chicken breast, skinless turkey breast, fish, beans, and legumes, for starters. Tofu is also a great lean protein choice. By making lean choices when you can, you're saving some room for less healthy choices later., Whole grains keep you fuller for longer, plus they generally provide more fiber and nutrients than refined grains. Think whole-wheat pasta instead of regular pasta or whole-wheat bread instead of white bread. Other healthy whole grains include quinoa, bulgar wheat, oatmeal, and lentils.

For instance, with your Thanksgiving sides, you could sub whole wheat bread for white bread in your dressing, as well as picking whole wheat rolls over white rolls.
Instead of a pasta salad, try a whole grain salad made with quinoa or bulgar wheat, vegetables, and a light dressing.
While not a whole grain, you can sub cauliflower for half the potatoes in your mashed potatoes without a big difference in taste or texture. Try including the skin of the potato, which adds more fiber, too.
 Many fall recipes are holiday favorites, which are high in calories. However, don't despair. You can lighten them up switching out lower-fat items for higher ones and by reducing the sugar in them. For instance, if a recipe calls for full-fat sour cream, try using nonfat Greek yogurt.

