 Press the button on your computer’s DVD-ROM to open the drive bay.
 Put your index finger in the middle hole of the disc and your thumb on the sides to hold it in place as you place it into the drive., Press the button on your computer’s DVD-ROM again to close the bay., A small window will appear on the screen requiring you to choose a setup language.
 Click the drop-down list and select the language you like to use. Click “OK” after selecting a language.


The Rockstar Social Club window, which will install the game on your computer, will appear.
 A popularly used virtual DVD-ROM application is Daemon Tools (http://www.daemon-tools.cc/products/dtLite). Just click the download link on the web page to install the program onto your computer.
 Double-click the game’s installer file and it should automatically open with and mount to the virtual DVD-ROM app.
 Inside you should see one of the virtual drives showing the GTA 4 installer.
 Right-click on this virtual DVD-ROM and select “Auto run” from the pop-up menu. A small window will appear requiring you to choose a setup language.
 Click the drop-down list and select the language you like to use. Click “OK” after selecting a language.


The Rockstar Social Club window, which will install the game on your computer, will appear.
 Press “Next” on the very first welcome screen of the Rockstar Social Club window to begin the installation.
 Read the License Agreement displayed on the window and click on the “I accept the terms of the license agreement” radio button.


Click the “Next” button again to continue.
 By default, the program will be installed inside the program file folder on your computer. Click the “Next” button again to start installing the Social Club to this location.


If you prefer to install the program on a different location, just click the “Browse” button and navigate to where you want to have the game placed before you click the Next button.
 This will take only a few minutes.
 Right after the Social Club finishes installing on your computer, the Grand Theft Auto 4 installation window will appear. Press “Next” on the very first welcome screen of the Grand Theft Auto 4 window to begin the installation.
 Just click the “Next” button to continue with the process.
 Click the “Typical” radio button to choose this kind of setup and make sure that you install all the necessary files needed to run the game.
 By default, the game will be installed inside the program file folder on your computer. Click the “Next” button again to start installing the game to this location


If you prefer to install the program on a different location, just click the “Browse” button and navigate to where you want to have the game placed before you click the Next button.
 It will take a few minutes to complete the installation. Once you’re done, you can launch the game and start playing Grand Theft Auto 4.


During the middle of the installation process, you’ll be asked to insert the second CD of the installer, just follow the Part 1 mentioned above for the DVD or soft copy installer to continue the process.

