 Grilling is a cooking method that uses direct, dry heat to heat meat on an array of closely-spaced metal bars called a grill. Grilling is a great choice for giving a mouthwatering crisp, seared crust to naturally-moist cuts of pork like chops or tenderloin. The most common types of grill are charcoal and gas grills. If you're using a charcoal grill (which takes time to reach cooking temperature), ignite your charcoal, then, as you're waiting for the charcoal to get an ash-covered, glowing appearance, portion out your pork cuts on a tray or platter so you'll be ready to immediately add them to the grill.


Gas grills reach "ready" temperature much more quickly than charcoal grills. However, they can give a slightly different flavor to the meat. Some people prefer the taste of charcoal grills, while others prefer the ease of gas grills.
Consider using natural hardwood or mesquite charcoal as opposed to the more-commonly used briquette form. Hardwood charcoal generally burns hotter and faster,which is handy for searing meat. Natural charcoal can also transfer some of its smoky, aromatic flavor to your meat as it cooks.
Particularly thick cuts of pork requires a longer, lower-temperature grilling process. In this case, conventional briquettes can be a better choice than hotter, quicker-burning hardwood charcoal.
 To prevent your meat from sticking to the grill, coat the bars of the grill with an oil that has a high smoke point (olive or grapeseed oil works well.) Do this by using a grill brush dipped in oil or by soaking a paper towel in oil, then pushing it across the grill with a pair of tongs or another long-handled tool. Then, place your pork cuts on the grill with tongs, arranging them so that they don't touch.


Avoid cross-contamination. Don't use any of the tools you use to place your pork on the grill to handle any other foods without washing them. Clean the container that held your uncooked pork cuts before using it for any other food. Don't allow uncooked pork to touch cooked pork.
 Contrary to popular belief, immediately searing a piece of meat does not "seal in the moisture (or flavor.)" In fact, rapidly seared pieces of meat are now believed to retain less moisture than pieces of meat that have been cooked more gradually.For charcoal grills, begin by arranging your pork around the edge of the grill, which is usually cooler than in the center. Gas grills should use a medium level of heat.


We will eventually sear the pork at the end of the grilling process. By waiting until the meat is already cooked to sear, we retain much of the meat's moisture.
Flip your pork cuts about once every minute or so. This ensures the meat is evenly-cooked. It will also help the meat to begin to develop an even crust.
 Keep the barbecue's lid closed while cooking to speed the cooking process. Thin cuts of pork will only need 4-5 minutes of cooking on hot grills, while larger pieces of meat will require longer, cooler cooking periods. "Done" pork should be uniformly firm to the touch with a browned outside, a whitish (not pink) interior, and juice that runs clear to brown (never red or pink.)


If you're unsure, use a meat thermometer. The USDA recommends an internal temperature of 160-170 degrees F (about 70 degrees C) for pork products. However, many prefer temperatures as low as 140 degrees C for juicier, rarer cuts of pork (see Method 1 for more information.)

, Before you remove your pork from the grill, give it a crispy, delicious crust. On charcoal grills, transfer the pork to the hottest part of the grill (usually the center). On gas grills, simply turn the heat to "high." Cook the pork this way for less than a minute on each side - you don't want to burn the meat or dry it out.


The chemical process that creates the flavorful seared crust is called the Maillard Reaction. Partially burning the outside of a piece of meat causes the meat's amino acids to react with sugars to form flavor compounds. In practice, this process simply means that a meat's seared crust tastes great!

, Remove done pieces of pork from the grill, placing them on a clean platter. Cover the meat with aluminum foil to keep it from cooling, then allow the meat to sit for about five to ten minutes. Use this rest time to put the finishing touches on any companion dishes (or to set your table.)


Allowing the meat to rest serves two purposes. First, most cuts of meat continue to cook even after they've been removed from the grill - your pork is no exception. If you're on the fence about whether your pork is done or not, giving it time to sit can often provide the extra "push" it needs to be definitively done. Second, it allows the pork to re-absorb some of the moisture lost during the cooking process. As a piece of meat cooks, it shrinks and "tightens" on a molecular level, squeezing moisture out of the meat.A few minutes of rest allows the meat to partially "relax" and retain more moisture.
 After the meat has rested and re-absorbed some of its moisture, it's ready to eat! Season gently with salt, pepper, or any other of your favorite spices. Serve with the bone in or with it removed.


Grilled pork goes great with starches like sweet potatoes or typical barbecue sides like coleslaw.


