 Tack or tape all rugs and loose carpets to the ground or better yet, eliminate small area rugs altogether. This will prevent seniors from tripping on turned-up corners or scrunched rugs.Double-sided tape can be used to secure smaller rugs but, again, consider simply removing these.
Replace rugs if the edges begin to curl, as this creates a tripping hazard.Non-skid wax can be used on waxed floors such as hardwoods., Make sure all area of the house, especially walking areas are clear of clutter that could cause tripping or other accidents.Secure electric cords and other wires to the wall so no one trips on them.
Frequently clean up toys, newspapers, and other items that have been left on the floor.
Make sure seniors can easily get around by leaving plenty of space between furniture items.If necessary, eliminate excess furniture, especially any items that are too large for the space.
 Make sure all seating is sturdy, eliminating any wobbly chairs or other unstable furniture.It's also a good idea to make sure that at last some of the seating is at a level that make it easy to sit down and stand up--not to high and not too low., Cover sharp corners on tables or countertops to avoid serious injury in the event of a fall.You can do this with tape and foam, as depicted here, or buy commercially available corer covers, which are more durable and attractive.
 Make sure all areas of the house are adequately lit. Make sure lamps are within easy reach of seating, the bed, and so on.Install non-glare, 100 watt (or higher) light bulbs, and promptly replace any bulbs that burn out.Adequate lighting is important everywhere, but it is especially important on stairwaysand anywhere that sharp tools might be used, such as the kitchen.If necessary, install additional lighting in these areas.
Nightlights can also be a good idea in areas that a senior may need to use during the night, such as the bathroom and the hallways., Ensure the smoke and carbon monoxide detectors are in good working order. Check that they have fresh batteries. Make sure that they are throughout the house — one on each floor and one in each bedroom at minimum.


Ideally, it's best if these are hard-wired. Even then, it's important to check the batteries regularly in case of a power outage., If the person lives alone, it might be a good idea to buy a medical alert system in case the person falls or is injured and can't get to a phone. These systems provide wearable devices (such as a necklace or a watch) that the person can press to place a call for help. There are many types of medical alert systems, so choose the one that makes the most sense for your situation.If you don't want to invest in a medical alert system, try a buddy system, in which one or a few people check in on the elderly person daily to ensure they are okay.

