 Even more than other breeds, working dogs need an owner who with the time and space to keep them active. On average, they need at least an hour of exercise daily, and do best with a yard or large fenced space to play.Owners of working breeds need to be in charge and able to handle a large, intelligent animal.;
, If you have a specific breed in mind, one of the best places to look is a breed-specific rescue group. For instance, you can search online for “Giant Schnauzer breed rescue groups near” your location.


If you live in the United States, you can also search the American Kennel Club website. They have a thorough list of national and regional rescue groups organized by breed., Look around local shelters and try to find a working breed or mix. You can find a local shelter’s contact information online or in your phone book. Give them a call, ask them if any working breeds are available for adoption, and find out if they have specific hours during which you can drop by to see the dogs.In the United States, you can track down local shelters by searching your zip code on The Shelter Project: http://theshelterpetproject.org/shelters/


, Contact your local shelter or rescue group and ask if they offer fostering opportunities. You can either foster the type of dog you'd like to adopt, or a specific potential adoptee. In addition to providing a loving home for the foster dog, you'll get to understand its needs firsthand., If you're not committed to adopting a puppy and live in the US, you can rescue a retired military working dog (MWD) by applying here: http://missionk9rescue.org/. You'll need to show that you can offer enough space and can handle a MWD in your adoption application. In addition, while there are no adoption fees, you'll need to travel to San Antonio, TX, and transport your new dog to your home.Note that the adoption process can take some time, since MWD adoptions are both limited and popular.
 Once you find a dog you’d like to adopt, the shelter or rescue group should finalize the adoption with some form of contract. It should discuss any adoption or vaccination fees you’re responsible for paying, and describe a spay or neuter agreement if you’ve made arrangements for a procedure with that organization.The shelter or rescue group should also provide instructions on how to care for your dog. It should include information about any specific health requirements your new companion has.
Make sure you know if the dog has already been vaccinated, spayed, or neutered. Find out if you’ll be responsible for providing vaccinations, initial veterinary exams, and spaying or neutering, and make sure you understand the costs. Some shelters will provide assistance with initial medical costs or waive adoption fees during certain times of the year.
 Working breeds are diverse, but there are many general and breed-specific health conditions to note. Due to their high activity level and size, many are prone to joint issues.In addition since they're typically curious, working breeds are prone to eating things they cannot digest. Some breeds, like Boxers, are also prone to digestive disorders such as bloat because of their body form. Signs of bloat include dry heaving or unsuccessful attempts to vomit and abdominal swelling. You should seek immediate emergency care if your dog shows symptoms of bloat.
 Ask the shelter or rescue group what they’ve been feeding the dog before you take it home. It’s best to keep a dog’s diet consistent, so stick with what it’s been eating if it’s in your budget and matches your standards.If you want to switch up its food, go with food marked for its specific breed or for larger breeds. If your new companion is a puppy, buy a brand marked specifically for puppies, since they need a higher calorie count. You can also discuss your dog’s diet with its vet during the initial exam.
 Purchase treats while you’re looking for food, as you'll need them for training your new dog. Look for brands approved by the Veterinary Oral Health Council. These will be marked with a “VOHC accepted” seal of approval.Remember treats should comprise a maximum of 10% of your dog’s caloric intake.
 Get a collar that will fit your dog, and if you have a new puppy, be sure to check the fit every couple weeks. As soon as you can, have tags made with your contact information and the dog’s name. If the shelter doesn’t make tags, your local pet store will.While you’re at the pet store, grab a leash, as you’ll need one as soon as you pick the dog up from the shelter or rescue group.
Purchase a few toys, including a ball and chew bone. Consider getting a treat dispensing or puzzle toy, since working breeds require mental stimulation in addition to physical exertion.
 Choose somewhere secluded, like a bedroom or spare room, for a size-appropriate dog bed or pile of blankets. Your dog will need a safe, comfortable place if it needs rest or privacy. Having a place it can turn to if it gets anxious will help it adjust to its new home., Consider investing in a crate that’s just large enough for your new dog and crate train it, especially if it’s a puppy. Since they’re den animals, dogs can actually associate a crate with a sense of security, as long as you don’t use the crate as a form of punishment.A crate will be useful if you want to leave the house but aren’t sure how your new dog will behave in its new surroundings.
Whenever you crate the dog, always make sure it has toys to keep it busy.
If the crate is too large for your dog’s ultimate size, your dog won’t find it safe and secure. Buy a crate that’s just large enough for your dog to be able to turn around and stand.
 Put away everything that might tempt your new, curious dog, including clothes, shoes, breakables, and anything else you wouldn’t want it to chew or destroy. Try to make electrical cords inaccessible, and be sure to keep the lid to the toilet down.Houseplants can be toxic, so make sure they're out of chewing range.
Use baby gates if you want to keep your dog out of areas without closing doors.
 First, put a leash on your new dog and take it outside to go to the bathroom to prevent any accidents on the ride home. If the dog has never been in a car before, be aware that it will likely experience anxiety and motion sickness.Consider having someone pick the dog up with you. When you take it home, have them hold the dog in the backseat and try to comfort it.
If you have a new puppy, have someone hold it in a blanket or towel to soothe it during the ride.
If you need to stop on the ride home, avoid areas frequented by other dogs if your new dog or puppy has not been properly vaccinated.
 If you have already have a dog or other pet, take your time introducing them to your new dog. Be patient, and first use scent articles to make them aware of each other. Then, keeping them leashed, consider introducing them first in a neighbor’s yard, then inside your home through a baby gate.Let other people in your home offer your new dog treats and let it sniff them.
Show your new dog where its food, water, and bed are located. Then give it time to adjust and look around its new environment.
 If you have friends or family members who own pets, ask for a recommendation. Before you leave the shelter or breed group, ask for a referral to a good vet.Tryin asking the breed rescue group, “Do you know of a good vet who’s especially familiar with this breed?”
If you have more than one good referrals, look up the potential vets’ office hours and cost. Choose the one who’s not only well-recommended, but cost-effective and convenient for your location and schedule.
 If the shelter or rescue group hasn’t already, get your dog vaccinated against rabies, parvovirus, and other required core vaccinations. Your vet will tell you what’s required for your jurisdiction, and will give your dog a medical exam.Your dog’s vet can also deworm your dog and offer internal parasite, flea, and tick prevention.
In addition, you and your dog’s vet can discuss spaying or neutering and set up an appointment for the procedure.
 A working dog will need at least an hour of exercise every day. Go for long walks for about a half hour a couple days a day. Since they're so curious and intelligent, varying where you walk your dog will expose it to new sights and smells, offering necessary mental stimulation.
 Get your new working dog familiar with your house rules, and don’t make any exceptions to the rules you establish. Begin basic command training immediately to offer your new dog the combination of physical and mental exertion it requires.For example, if you don’t want your dog on furniture or to beg for food, don’t make any exceptions to these rules. This is especially important when you’re teaching your new dog your house rules.
To teach commands, like sit or stay, first say the command clearly, like “Sit!” Physically guide the dog into the appropriate position if necessary. Offer a small treat as soon as the dog is in the correct position. Repeat around 20 times per training session, offering praise and a piece of a treat the instant the dog follows the command so it’ll associate following the command with a reward.

