 When you're active, your body releases endorphins which elevate your mood.The enjoyment you get from the activities will keep you from focusing on the "loss" of the Internet.

Eat. You don’t need the internet to tell you ratings if the restaurant you just walked past smelled amazing.
Play a game. Card games, dominoes, and even board games are great ways to spend time with others.
Visit an arcade. Be a pinball wizard, throw a few skee balls, or kill some zombies.
Attend a mixer. Hotels and resorts often have happy hours and events for the residents to attend.
 Instead of holing up in your room with your computer or your phone, giving up the Internet allows you to find out what’s around you. You can soak in the local ambiance and connect with your vacation spot.

Find museums or landmarks. Many sites offer audio-guided tours that allow you to fully experience the things you see without the need for Google.
Find local music. You may decide to try out a dance class or just listen to what the area has to offer.
 Physical activity gets your blood and adrenaline pumping. Even if you’re not an exercise junkie, there are plenty of ways to work out that don’t feel like work. In addition to the exercise, you may also be able to learn something about your vacation spot or see something new.

Take a walking tour or hike. If you choose to hike, look for a local guide to keep from getting lost.
Use your hotel or resort's amenities. Most resorts have a gym, a basketball court, a lap pool, or more.
Do some yoga. Hit up a local class around town.
Mix exercise with adventure. Try extreme sports like wind surfing, sky-diving, bungee jumping, or whitewater rafting.
 Sometimes you have to do nothing in order to feel that you're doing something. Allow yourself to slow down and take in your experiences. Go out and enjoy nature. Spending time outside can help to relieve your stress. Enjoy the sights, listen to the sounds, take in the smells, and view the landscapes around you.If you're at a hotel or spa, take advantage of services or amenities that can take your stress away. You could lounge at a pool (remember to use sunscreen and keep hydrated!) or get a massage, a manicure and pedicure, or a facial.
You can also meditate. Take time to be alone with yourself. You’ll be surprised at how differently you perceive yourself and the world around you after you’ve been alone with your thoughts. Sleep. Bring a sleep mask and some quiet music to listen to.Read. Immerse yourself in other worlds and let this one slip away.

