 This is optional. It will only guide you to make better shapes and maintain the overall proportions of the peacock. Use a light pencil.;
, Choose a color of your choice and stipple, making a border for a specific part of the peacock.


Start with the peacock's neck using either blue, green or any other color of your choice. Since the peacock is a very colorful bird, you can incorporate a lot of colors in your design.
Make a slender neck resembling the shape of an elongated flower vase.
Make a round head.
Add lines on the head for the crest. On top of the lines make small rectangles.
 Make a circular boundary through stippling, within which the plumage will be drawn.


You can make a plain circle first and then add curves on it after.
Mark the golden circle (saddle) which starts at the end of the neck, before the feathers begin.
 On these lines you will place the 'eyespot,' which is the signature feature of peacock tails.
 Make circles on the lines you made. The circles will be smaller around the neck and bigger as it goes above because the feathers open on the outside.


The placement of the eyespots can follow a pattern to look fuller and uniform i.e.; let the position of the eyespots be about similar in line 1, 3, 5 and so on and let the eyespots follow a uniform placement in line 2, 4, 6 and so on.
You need not stress about making perfect circles. It can be a circle or an oval. As you add more layers to it, it looks better.
 Define the eyes and the beak. Make a circle on the beak.


Their eyes can be made just like human eyes. Make an almond shape and add a circular pupil inside.
Mark the white portion, which is found around the eye, in the shape of a distorted rectangle.
You can either do these with pencil first or start away with crayons.
 Stipple all throughout the feather area using a light yellow color.


Leave blank the circles you made for the eyespot design.
This will add fullness to the feathers and add to its appeal.
 Take a darker yellow or a brown to fill any area that is left after using the yellow. A blend of two colors makes the peacock appear true to life.


This will further fill the gaps and make it more vibrant. Stipple all over the feathers leaving the circles for the eyespots.
 Pick a darker color like violet and outline all the eyespots yet again.


You need not worry too much about the maintaining even shapes. A little distortion gets concealed as you stipple it completely.
 Complete stippling all the eyespots.


Start with light colors first, because it is difficult for light colors to appear on top of dark colors.
Stipple in the eyespots with light green, brown, light blue and dark blue.
 Use a green color to outline individual circles in it first.
 Stipple the inside on the circles with light and dark brown.
 Stipple the neck with dark and light blue.


Use a brown for the crest and a blue for the rectangles on the crest.
Define the eyes and the beak.
 Use yellow for the legs and beige or grey for the claws and nails.

