 Part of good mental health is the ability to handle feedback and criticism. Early experiences receiving feedback can help your child learn to accept criticism without it lowering their self-esteem. You can help your child by providing them with corrective feedback, as well as specific praise.Instead of just telling your child what they’re doing wrong, suggest ways they can improve. For instance, instead of saying, “You're not reading that right,” you might say, “Try breaking the word down into smaller parts.”
Praise your child's efforts rather than their qualities. For example, you could say, “ I'm proud of how you stuck with that project,” instead of saying, “You're so smart.”

, Showing them how to combat negative self-thoughts and the criticism of others can help promote good mental health in your child. Positive self-talk can help them maintain their self-esteem as a child and as an adult.


Model using it yourself. For instance, you might say, “Wow, his comment on my post was kind of mean. I’m going to remind myself that I'm still a great person.”
Help your child develop a list of their positive qualities, skills, and traits. They can refer to this list when they need to.
 One way that children develop self-esteem is by experiencing success.Having these experiences can help build their confidence and promote good mental health. Create regular opportunities for your child to display and develop their skills and capabilities.


You can give your child tasks to do that are age-appropriate and that you know they can handle, but it is more important to let them decide what tasks are important to them. For example, a young child may get the most joy out of buttoning a button on their own for the first time. Be sure to share in your child’s celebration.
Allow your child to show their independence. For instance, resist the temptation to help your toddler with their shoes. Just be patient and allow them to show you they can get dressed without your help.
 Having friends and participating in social activities is a necessary and fun part of growing up.Being social promotes good mental health because it can build self-esteem and give your child additional people to get support from. Provide your child with the opportunity to meet and socialize with peers, as well as to participate in activities at their school and in your community.


Take your child places where they can meet other kids their age. For instance, you might go to the park, a community center, or a trendy café.
Support your child in their extracurricular activities and hobbies. For example, encourage your child to explore their interest in swimming by joining local swim team.
 Although you may not be able to attend every event they’re participating in, you can still support them and their interests. Letting them know that you're interested in their hobbies and activities can help boost their self-esteem and encourage them to have character and confidence-building experiences.It also lets your child know that the things that are important to them matter to you as well.


Ask your child questions about their interests and activities. For example, if they enjoy online gaming you might ask about the latest game release.
Or, for instance, you could make snacks for your child's basketball team or help out with their fundraiser.
Encourage your child to try new activities. You might say, “I’m proud of how you explore new experiences and opportunities.”

