 For this project, a nice fleece blanket will suffice. If you want a more elegant look, you could also choose any ravel-resistant fabric that is thick and double-sided. A ravel-resistant fabric works best to prevent the edges from fraying, and a double-sided fabric works best so that you do not need to sew an underside into the cape.
 Use a soft cloth tape measure to measure your arm span from one set of fingertips to the other set. The fabric will need to be twice as long as this span., The length of the cape can vary depending on your own personal preference, but a good length to start with would be to your upper or mid thigh. Use a soft cloth tape measure to measure the distance between your shoulder and your thigh, or from your shoulder to whichever stopping point you choose. Add about 1 inch (2.5 cm) onto this measurement for a seam allowance., Use the measurements you took to cut out a large rectangle. The width should look notably larger than the length., Use your tape measure to locate the center top of your cape, along the width or arm span of your fabric. Make a small mark with a fabric pencil at the exact center., Lay the rectangle out flat. Bring each top corner of the width or arm span in toward the center, matching both top corners with the center mark. Your fabric should be half as wide now, and there should be a line down the exact center if the garment. Pin and iron the fold in place., Fold along the width or arm span of the garment. The fold should be where the two halves of your fabric come together, and the arm span should be halved once more. Pin in place but do not iron., Position the fabric so that the newly folded edge is on your left and the intended top of the cape is at the top. Use a fabric pencil to draw a curve or semicircle from the top right corner to the bottom left corner. Cut along this line to round out the bottom of the cape., The last fold you made, which reduced the arm span of your fabric to a quarter of its original size, should now be unfolded, revealing the center line once more. The bottom of the cape should look rounded while the top should remain a straight line., Use a tape measure to measure the diameter of your neck. Add 1 or 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) to this measurement to allow for a little extra comfort room., From the top center of the fabric, measure out the distance needed for your neck. The center of the neck measurement should be the center of your cape. Cut out two short triangles from the top, with the height of each triangle being about 3 to 4 inches (7.5 to 10 cm). Only cut the triangles out from the top layer of the fabric., Trace the pattern or hood onto two layers of your fabric, pin the layers together, and cut along the outline., Sew from the top left corner of the hood, or the top corner above the opening, all the way down along the curved back and the bottom corner, where the neck should be. Allow for a 1/4 inch (0.5 cm) seam allowance., Fold the cape in quarters again, placing the fold toward the right and the opening toward the left. Match the back of your folded hood to the back top of your cape and the opening of the hood toward the left, or the front of your cape. Sew the bottom of the hood to the top of your cape., You can use bias tape that matches the color of your fabric or tape that contrasts with it for a nice eye-catching pop. The tape should be applied to the bottom edge, up along the center, and around the hood., The tape should naturally be folded in the center when you buy it. Make sure that this fold fits over the edge of the cape., You can either use a sewing machine or a straight hand stitch. Either way, the tape should be securely fixed onto the edges., Sew-on snaps are easy to apply and can be sewed by hand. Apply one snap at the top of the cape and as many as you need to close the cape up in front, spacing the snaps about 4 inches (10 cm) apart.

You can also use a zipper or buttons, but buttons will require extra work since you will need to sew in button holes, as well.
 Arm holes are only optional, but they will help the cape stay centered and may make it easier to move around. Lay the cape out flat with the front facing out. Draw a small mark with a fabric pencil about 1/3 of the way down from the top of the cape along the curved bottom., Make a straight stitch from your two arm marks about 2 inches (5 cm) in length, running parallel to the top of your cape., You can either center the brooch or leave it a little off-centered. Either way, a brooch makes the perfect finishing touch to an otherwise plain cape.