 You can make a ball small or large depending on your intentions for using it. To make the ball larger, add a few more rounds of increases by alternating between single crocheting two stitches into one and then one stitch into one.

At the end of each increase round, you should have 1.5 times the number of stitches you had at the beginning of the round. For example, if you start a round with 30 stitches, you should finish it with 45 stitches.
Keep increasing until the ball circumference is the size you want it to be.
 The color and type of yarn you choose can also affect the look and feel of your ball. You can go with a solid color, alternate between two or three colors, or go for a multi-color yarn. You can also choose a smooth yarn like an acrylic, or go with a fluffy yarn to give your ball a furry appearance.

For a striped ball, switch yarn colors after every round for a small ball or after every two rounds for a larger ball.
Be sure the check the gauge of the yarn you are using and make sure that you are using the recommended hook for the yarn type. This information is usually listed on the yarn label.
 You can also experiment with different stitches when making your ball. Trying a different stitch can give your ball some texture and add an interesting design. For example, you could try the popcorn stitch or the crunch stitch for a textured ball.

Keep in mind that tight stitches work best for crocheting a ball because you want to make sure that the stuffing won’t come out. Avoid stitches that have wide gaps in them, unless you plan on lining the ball with fabric.
 After your ball is finished, you can always add embellishments to make it even more unique. Try sewing on a button, tying a ribbon around the middle of the ball, or adding some glittery puffy paint.

For example, you could tie a black satin ribbon around a white ball to add some contrast, or use some glue to add a bit of glitter to the ball and make sparkle.
 Depending on what you had in mind for this project, you have some options when it comes to displaying and using your ball. You can use your ball to play with or you can display it as part of your home décor. Some ways you can use and display a crocheted ball include:

As an ornament. You can loop a piece of yarn or ribbon through the ball to hang it up like an ornament.
In a bowl. Place several balls into a bowl on a table or shelf for a cute DIY décor piece.
Play hacky sack with a bean stuffed ball. If you used beans to stuff your ball, then take it outside and play a game of hacky sack with friends.

