 Climb up a ladder without your tools to take a look at the roof surface. Do not walk on a wet or icy roof, a very steep roof, or one with obvious structural damage. Even a mild slope can be dangerous to walk on if the roofing material is slippery (slate), gritty (worn composite shingles), or loose (wood shakes or any worn shingles).It's best to walk on a roof when the sun is out and morning dew has evaporated.

Curled shingles or other non-flat roof coverings make this method less accurate.Consider measuring from the rake board at the edge of the roof instead.

Wear clean, dry, basketball shoes or sneakers with soft soles. These have good traction but are less likely to leave footprints on your roof., Mark the length with the marker. Many levels are equipped with a ruler on the side, but this mark is more visible.
 Place the level, a tape measure, paper, and pen in a bucket or tool belt. Make sure you can ascend the ladder and move around easily while carrying the tools.

It may help to lock your tape measure in extended position before you climb. You'll only need about 12 inches.
 Place one end of the level against the roof. Pivot it up or down until the horizontal vial's bubble is between the two lines.

If your roof is particularly bumpy, lay down a flat board over the roof first. Place the end of the level against this board.

Crouch down or sit, as to minimize the potential for slipping.
 Hold the 0-mark of the tape measure against the roof. Extend it upward so it is perpendicular to the level. Move the tape measure along the the roof until it hits the level at exactly the 12-inch mark. Note the vertical distance on the tape measure and write this value down.
 Write the roof slope as the ratio of "rise over run," or vertical distance over horizontal distance. For example, if your tape measure found a 6 inch vertical distance to the 12 inch mark on your level, the slope is 6:12 or "6 in 12".

In the United States, slopes are traditionally given with 12 as the second number of the ratio. There's no need to simplify the ratio.


