 If your mother, grandmother, or other individual in your family wore pearls in their wedding, consider wearing those same pearls. This will increase the sentimental value of the necklace and could even start a family tradition.
 If you are wearing a white gown, you will want to wear white pearls to match. If you are wearing a blush dress, wear matching blush pearls. Wearing a different shade of pearls will draw attention away from your dress and to your neckline. A good pearl necklace, bracelet, or earrings should accentuate a gown, not draw attention away from it.If you are wearing a dress that is an unconventional color, try a classic white strand or perhaps pick a complementary color, such as yellow pearls with a blue dress, green pearls with a red dress, or orange pearls with a purple dress. Be creative and have fun!

, For a wedding that is more relaxed and less formal, consider incorporating colored pearls. This could be an opportunity to match your pearls to your color scheme or choose a favorite color that you enjoy wearing.You could wear pink pearls to an outdoor spring wedding, light green or aqua pearls to a summer wedding, and silver or gold pearls to a winter wedding. This is especially true if you are a guest, as guests often have more opportunity for incorporating bolder colors into their outfits than brides do.
 There are many different lengths of pearls but some necklace lengths suit some dress styles better than others. In general, the longer the strand of pearls, the higher the neckline the dress should be.


Strands 14 inches (35.6 cm) in length will fit tightly around the neck and will suit scoop necks, V-necks, off-the-shoulder-, and boatneck dresses.
Strands between 16–18 inches (40.6–45.7 cm) will fall between the base of the throat and the collarbone, respectively. These strands will pair well with almost any style of dress or neckline. This will give you plenty of flexibility!
Strands that are 20–24 inches (50.8–61.0 cm) are best suited for business or casual wear.
Pearl necklaces that are 28–42 inches (71.1–107 cm) will pair beautifully with high necklines and evening wear.