 All Olympic events use the tiebreakers described below. In the World Gymnastics Championships, only the qualification rounds (C-I) use these tiebreakers. In all World Championship Finals, athletes with tied scores both earn the same placement and medal.
 The games begin with Competition I events, where gymnasts compete to advance to the final rounds.If there's a tie for a spot in the C-II All-Around Finals, or if there's a tie in the finals themselves, break ties by comparing these scores from the tied athletes:

Add the top 3 highest final apparatus scores for women's gymnastics, or the top 5 for men. For example, if an athlete's worst score was the beam, discard it and add together her scores for the vault, floor, and bars.
If still tied, discard the lowest remaining score and compare again (now down to the top 2 scores for women, or top 4 for men). Continue discarding the lowest remaining score until the tie is broken.
If still tied, compare the sum of all E-scores (execution scores). Discard the lowest scores one by one if necessary as described above.
If still tied, repeat with the sum of all D-scores (difficulty scores).
 The C-I qualifier scores are also used to compare the results of entire teams, with the best teams advancing to the C-IV team finals. The same tiebreaker system used in C-II applies to these events as well, with the following changes:

For each apparatus, use the highest total score, E-score, or D-score from that team. Ignore teammates who had a lower score in that apparatus.
If you go through all tiebreakers and two teams are still tied, compare the total score from the best-scoring gymnast on each team.
 C-I competitors in vault perform two vault attempts, and the two scores are averaged into a final result. Gymnasts with the highest of these averages advance to the C-III vault finals. If there's a tie in qualifiers or finals, find out who won:

The highest score for an individual attempt wins (ignoring the lower score and the average).
If still tied, the highest E-score from either vault attempt wins.
If still tied, the highest D-score from either vault attempt wins.
 In battles for the floor, rings, or any other apparatus besides the vault, break ties as follows. This applies to C-I qualifiers as well as C-III finals:

Compare the highest E-Score.
If still tied, compare the highest D-Score.

