 You’ll use this to select the image(s) in the photo that you want to distinguish from your blurred background. Choose the selection type based on what is most suitable for your particular image. Ex.:


If the image you want to emphasize has very straight edges, right-click to change the lasso to Polygonal, which will create straight lines between the points you click.
If there’s a sharp, clear edge between the background and the image you want to emphasize, change the lasso to Magnetic, which will find the edge for you.
 Feathering your edges will make them softer and subtle – and much more forgiving.
 This will help you freehand-select more accurately.
 Be sure to “close the circle” by ending up back where you started and clicking on your origin point. You’ll know your selection is complete once a dotted “marquee” line appears around the edges.


Make sure you’re working on the top layer when you lasso.
To add to an already-completed selection, hold down the Shift key while you continue to select. This is a great way to either modify your current selection or simultaneously select a separate subject.
To subtract from an already-completed selection, hold town the Alt key and select the area you wish to remove, which will then become unselected.
, This will create a new layer on top of your original one.


Usually, this will paste the copied image directly on top of the original one, which means it might not look like anything has changed. Look at your Layers tab (usually in the bottom right-hand corner) to see if a new layer has appeared.
If this "Layers" toolbar is not visible in Photoshop, go to Window and select in Layers the drop-down list.
If necessary, use the Move tool, which looks like a cursor arrow, to drag the newly-pasted foreground on top of the existing image so that they match.
 This is found in the Layers toolbar.
 This will blur the background but not the duplicated image of the subject.


Repeat this Blur More command until you achieve the desired effect. In Photoshop, the Ctrl-F keyboard shortcut will repeat the last filter command.
Alternately, use Gaussian Blur and play around with different blur radii to create the background effect you want. The larger the radius, the blurrier the image, so if you’re going for a subtle effect, aim low. For example, if you want the background to be very soft and only somewhat identifiable, try a radius of 10. If you want your background just barely blurred, use a radius of .5 or 1.
 The easiest way to do this is to look at the History toolbar and undo some of your Blur More commands. Alternately, changing how your layers combine can produce nice effects. To do this:


Try changing the newly copied foreground layer's Opacity. This is visible in the Layers toolbar. A good opacity level to start at is 50%; move up a little at a time until you find a good blend.
Try changing how the layer combines with other layers by changing its property, also available in the Layers toolbar. For example, try Darken instead of Normal for an artistic sketch effect.
 This should be on the same toolbar as the Lasso Tool.


Set the blur tool's strength to somewhere around 33%.
Set your brush size to a comfortable level such as a radius of 5 to 15 pixels. If you don't see a brush size option, select Brushes from the Window menu in Photoshop.
Use the blur tool to touch up the outside edge of your foreground, especially where the image seems pixelated. This will help to create a sense of transition between your foreground and background that is easy on the eyes.
 This will combine your various layers into one.

