 Before you go on an adventure in the Nether, you’ll need to ensure that you have the latest version of the game. The Nether was added in version 0.12.1 of Minecraft PE. If you didn’t enable the auto-update feature on your Android or iOS device, then you'll need to update the game through Google Play or the Apple App Store.;
, This material can be gathered with a diamond pickaxe from areas where water flows vertically into still lava. You can make obsidian by placing some water over a pool of lava, then gathering the Obsidian that forms. You will need at least 10 blocks of Obsidian.


Lava can be gathered underground, but only if it’s still (not flowing). Water can be gathered from pools of water found in the overworld.
You can craft a bucket through your crafting table for 3 iron ingots, or find them in dungeons inside chests. When you gather any liquid with a bucket (tap the lava or water lightly while the bucket is selected), the buckets containing the liquids will not stack and take up individual slots in the inventory.
 You'll need this tool to light the Nether portal. You can find Flint and Steel in dungeon chests, or you can create it from 1 Iron Ingot and 1 Flint.


Flint can be gathered from breaking gravel, though the chance to gather it is a bit low.
 If you have a diamond pickaxe and were able to mine Obsidian, place two blocks on the ground, with two random blocks at each end. Place three Obsidian blocks on top of each end, then finish the top with two more Obsidian and two random corners. You can remove the random blocks after placing the Obsidian. If you don't have a diamond pickaxe, continue through this section for instructions on creating one with just some buckets, water, and lava.The portal frame can be as large as 23x23.
 You can make a “stairway” using stacks of blocks leading to the top if you want or join them together to create an arching frame.
 The water should be flowing downwards into the ground.
 The lava is immediately converted to obsidian blocks.
 If you didn’t make the arc, place water on the top of the obsidian stacks so more water flows, then join the two stacks, adding another block of water whenever you reach a dry side.
 Wait for the area to dry off before lighting the portal

, Since this is a portal to Minecraft’s “hell” level, the portal works by setting the inside of the frame on fire. You can do this by crafting some flint and steel, which costs 1 flint and 1 iron ingot and is made on your crafting table. Select it, and tap the frame you just made. You’ll know if you did it right if the frame suddenly glows purple in the middle!


Be very, VERY careful when handling your flint and steel, since you might accidentally light everything on fire!

, Now, simply walk into the shimmering purple surface and wait for the Nether to load. Walk off the frame once you see a fiery red hell scape, and try not to land on fire or lava! There’s quite a bit to explore here, and while it’s quite hazardous, it’s also pretty rewarding!


You must be even more careful with your flint and steel in the Nether, since you can set Netherrack on fire, and this fire never goes out! While this is good if you want to make a fireplace, it’s not so good if you accidentally set the surrounding area of your Portal on fire.
Don’t immediately go hunting for the native Pigmen, since they tend to swarm around you when they “see” one of them get attacked and pack quite a wallop! The same goes for most of the other mobs here, so at the very least, make sure you’re fully equipped with a complete set of iron armor!
Mushrooms tend to thrive here, making it an excellent farm to grow them in, but you can’t place any water in here, making regular farming useless. You can also plant trees and flowers here if you want to, as long as you place it on dirt blocks.
 Making the Portal in Creative world allows you to quickly make and test it without having to mine the materials or worry about danger.


When you create a Nether Portal in Creative mode, you can switch the world to Survival after it’s made. This will allow you to use the Portal in Survival mode without having to worry about building it.
With this game mode switch feature, it’s also possible to create Nether portals in any of the Creative or Survival Worlds that you created prior to the update.

