 When you have a cold, there are only certain symptoms with which you can exercise. If your symptoms only affect parts of your body above your neck, you are safe to work out. Working out may actually help open your nasal passages. If your cold symptoms affect any body part below the neck, you should not exercise and instead rest.


Above the neck symptoms include minor sore throat, runny nose, sneezing, or nasal congestion.
Below the neck symptoms include chest congestion, productive or wet chest coughing, or upset stomach.;
, Although it may be helpful to work out when you have a cold, you should never work out if you have severe cold or flu symptoms. Never work out if you have a fever, are extremely fatigued, or if you have widespread muscle aches.


These are symptoms of a more intense cold, which may lead to a more severe illness if you overwork yourself with exercise., When you are sick, you need elevated levels of fluids. The same is true for when you work out, both before and after a workout. This means that it is especially true when you are sick and are working out. Make sure you get plenty of water before you work out and drink plenty afterwards.


If your throat is scratchy before or after, try warm liquids, such as tea or chicken broth, to help ease any discomfort.
You might also eat a healthy snack afterwards as well to keep your energy up, even if you just worked out for a short time., Your body expends a lot of energy fighting off the virus infecting your body when you are sick. Even if your symptoms are above the neck and not very severe, you should not work out for extended periods of time. Instead, try to keep your workout short.


This means you should skip your normal hour-long exercise routine and do about 30 minutes instead.
The reduced time will still be beneficial and it won't strain your healing body., Just like with a shorter amount of time, you should also lower the intensity of your workout. If you work out really hard for even a short amount of time, it can strain your body too much and cause you to get worse.


For example, if you do high-intensity kickboxing for 45 minutes at a time, try a different type of exercise while you are sick that is less intense, such as a cardio dance class.Working out at a high-intensity can actually increase your symptoms and make your immune system more susceptible to additional infections or illnesses.Light intensity workouts have been shown to help reduce the severity and length of upper respiratory infections., While you are sick, you may tire easier than other times that you work out. If you find yourself feeling lightheaded or overextended, take a break before you return to working out.


The breaks can last from five minutes to 30 minutes, depending on how you feel. Only start back your exercise routine when you feel better and more stable.
You should also take breaks as often as you need them. It depends on your personal well being.
If you keep going, you may cause yourself injury or lengthen your symptoms., When you have a cold, you should avoid doing any exercises outside if it is cold. The cold, dry air can irritate your airways, which can trigger coughing fits, a runny nose, or other breathing issues.This means you should not jog or walk in the cold.
Cold air is a risk factor for bringing on an asthma attack; therefore, if you have asthma be especially vigilant.
You should also avoid outside winter activities when you have a cold, such as skiing, snow hiking, or snowboarding.
 If you aren't sure if you should work out with your symptoms, see your doctor. Your doctor will be able to tell you whether or not your symptoms are too severe to work out. Your doctor may also be able to give you other tips on how to work out with your symptoms.


If your symptoms get worse while you work out, you may also need to see your doctor to make sure your condition is not getting worse.Stop and call your doctor immediately if you have a coughing fit while exercising or if you develop increased chest congestion.
If you have trouble breathing, have increased chest pressure, feel extremely dizzy, or have difficulty balancing during a workout, you may need to seek immediate emergency care.