 Many introverts have difficulty being open and friendly to strangers or potential dates in person. Online dating gives introverts a way to meet and chat with others in a controlled way and decide how often they connect with others. It may also be easier for introverts to talk about themselves and chat with new people without the pressure of doing so face to face.You may make a profile on a dating site like Match.com or PlentyofFish.com or use a mobile dating App like Tinder or Bumble.
When making a dating profile, try to put yourself out there and describe yourself to others. Include a picture of yourself that you like and list some of your interests so people can get a glimpse of who you are.
You may even make a note on your profile that you are introverted by nature but open up over time. Being honest about this upfront could help you find someone who will be willing to invest time and energy into the relationship so they can get to know you better.;
, You can use online dating to get to know someone better before you meet in person, which may make you feel more comfortable once you have a face to face date. Strike up a conversation with the person on the online dating site and chat with them.Ask them about one of the interests listed on their profile and start talking. Test out the waters with some light chatting so you can come out of your shell a little and get to know the person.
You may end up chatting with the person over a period of time, becoming more and more comfortable with them as time goes on. Once you start to form a daily or weekly relationship with the person over online chatting, you may be comfortable enough to meet with them in person on a date.
 You can also use online social media platforms to connect and meet others who may be dating material. People’s social media profiles can often tell you a lot about what they are interested in and what they like to do with their time. You may end up following someone on Instagram or Snapchat that seems interesting to you.As an introvert, you may be nervous about asking someone out over social media. One option is to like or comment on their posts to get their attention. Over time, this could lead to online chatting with them or even an in person date.

