 To humans, a hand closed into a fist is a gesture of hostility and aggression, while an open hand indicates friendship and trust. To your cat, these gestures mean the opposite.Moving towards your cat with an open, extended hand may alarm or frighten it, as she will associate this gesture with an aggressive attack.
 Although this seems counterintuitive, it will establish affection between you and your cat.If you reach out with an open hand, your cat may think you are trying to grab at it or strike it.


To reassure your cat, brush your closed fist against it. Once it accepts the physical contact, you can start petting the cat as you normally would.
 Reaching out with a fist will signal to your cat that you do not mean to harm it, but you should continue to treat your cat gently and affectionately after you have reached out to touch it.If you cuddle with your cat—let it sit on or near you, or lay in your lap and sleep—you’ll communicate that you can be trusted.
If your cat had any initial misgivings as to whether or not you meant it harm, cuddling and petting your cat will reassure the animal that you mean well and will not harm it.
 Bunting (a cat’s behavior when it rubs or butts its head against you) is also a sign of affection.Bunting marks you with your cat’s scent, and also expresses its happiness and trust in you.


Bunting can also show that your cat considers you a “safe” person to be around and indicates that it trusts you.Like slowly blinking, this is not a behavior you can train your cat to perform.
Your cat will spontaneously bunt you once you have developed its trust.
 Although this may seem silly at first, returning you cat’s bunt will indicate to the animal that you understand its significance and feel affection towards your cat as well.Tap and rub your cat lightly with your forehead or cheek, but remember to be gentle!


If you are playing with your cat, you can get down on your hands and knees so it can bunt your head directly.
Bunting can also be an attention-seeking gesture. If your cat wants you to pet or play with it, it will bunt you to playfully get your attention.