 Stiletto nails are easy to achieve, but you do need some special materials and tools. You will need:a package of long, square shaped fake nails. Get the kind that go over your entire nail. You can find these in beauty supply stores.
nail adhesive
a nail clipper
a nail file
a cuticle pusher
clear top coat nail polish
nail polish in the color(s) of your choice
extra design elements, such as decals, glitter, and rhinestones;
, Before you begin, trim down your natural nails to ensure that they are neat and short. Longer nails may be damaged by applying fake nails.








If you have any nail polish on, then make sure that you remove it. It is also a good idea to wash your hands with soap and warm water to remove any oils or lotion that might be on your nails., Pushing back your cuticles will help to make your nails look neater and it will also allow more space for the fake nails. Use a cuticle pusher to gently push back your cuticles.








It is best to push back your cuticles right after a shower because the skin will be softer and more pliable. You can also soak your fingertips in warm water for about five minutes to soften your cuticles.
Never cut your cuticles because this can introduce fungal infections to your nail bed and the cuticles will also look frayed when they grow back., Applying a base coat will help to ensure that your natural nails are not damaged when you take off the fake ones.Apply two to three coats of clear nail polish to your natural nails.









Allow the clear nail polish to dry completely before you start applying the fake nails.
 The stiletto shape is not recommended for natural nails because it can break more easily than other shapes, so fake nails are best for this look. Choose a set of long fake nails with square tips so that you can shape them how you want.








When you are ready to apply the fake nails, apply a dot of the nail glue to a fake nail and then press it onto your natural nail. Hold the nail for about 10 seconds to give the glue a chance to bond with your nail. Repeat this process for all of your nails.
Nail glue lasts for a few days. If you just want to wear your stiletto nails for a few hours, then you can also use double sided fashion tape to attach them., After you have applied your fake nails, use a nail clipper to trim them into pointed shapes. Just trim a little bit of nail at a time to avoid making the nails too short or narrow.








If you want to ensure that you get a really even shape, then you can mark the center of the nail before you get started. Try placing a small dot of nail polish at the center of each nail to help guide you as you trim.
 After you have achieved a rough version of the shape you want, then file the edges to even them out. Use an emery board to sand away any rough or jagged edges while maintaining the pointed shape.








The tips of stiletto nails can be dangerous if you leave them too pointy, so you may want to file them down a bit.
 There are many different nail polish and design variations for stiletto nails. You can browse some photos on the internet for inspiration or come up with your own unique design.








Try black nail polish or another dark color for a more severe look.
Go for red nails if you want something classic and sexy.
Paint your nails a pastel color, such as pink or lavender, for a soft contrast to your sharp nails.
Add glitter, rhinestones, nail decals, stripes, polka dots, or words to get a unique look.
 Cuticle oil may help to gently loosen up the fake nails so that you do not need any harsh chemicals.Apply a few drops of cuticle oil just under the edge of the fake nail and let the oil soak in. After a few minutes, try to rock the nail back and forth to see if it is ready to come off.









If the nail still seem stuck, don’t force it off. Just apply a few more drops of cuticle oil. If the nail still won’t budge, then you may need to try a different removal method.
 You can also try soaking your fake stiletto nails in some warm soapy water to help loosen them up. Fill a small bowl with warm water and a few drops of hand soap. Then, soak your nails in the water for about 10 minutes.









After ten minutes, press on the tips of your nails to see if they will come off easily. If they still seem stuck on, try soaking for a little longer or try a different removal method.
 If cuticle oil and warm water do nothing to remove your fake nails, then you may need to use some acetone nail polish remover. Pour some acetone nail polish remover into a small bowl and then dip your fingertips into the liquid.








After a few minutes, pull out your fingertips and see if the fake nails are ready to come off.
If you don’t want to dip your fingertips in acetone nail polish remover, then you can also apply some of the nail polish remover to your nails with a cotton ball. Try to get the acetone under the fake nail to loosen the adhesive.
Make sure that you wash and moisturize your hands after using an acetone nail polish remover. Acetone can dry out your skin.

