 Try to number them in order of how confident you are that you possess these traits. For example, traits include good listener, outgoing, expressive, introspective, thoughtful or intelligent.;
, These are the things that people tend to respond to, or things you think stand in your way. For example, shy, angry, talkative, judgmental or nervous.


Keep in mind that positive and negative are subjective in this scenario. Someone might think they are too outgoing or that being talkative is a positive thing. Personality changes should be based on your opinions and desires for self-improvement.
It is most likely harder to make this list than your first list. Take your time and consider how your personality when you're with others or when you're alone, since these may be the main things you want to change.
 You can’t instantly change everything about your personality.
 Perhaps you are intelligent, but you would like to become even smarter.
 Changing behaviors is best done slowly, changing a single personality trait at a time through practice and commitment., For example, imagine you want to be less shy.
 You may list items like leaving parties early, not interrupting, not giving your opinion, avoiding people or refusing to volunteer.
 For example, volunteer for a new role at work or accept more invitations to social events.
 This is better done with a single personality trait than an entire set of traits, since personality allows us to be unique. However, you can learn a lot from people who practice positive behavior in their everyday life., Think up a new mantra like “I will be heard.” Put reminders on your cell phone to interact more with people.
 Negative attitudes will reduce confidence and commitment to improving yourself.
 Join a new organization, class, club, team or group. It is easy to go back into old habits with people who know you already; however, new acquaintances won’t have expectations and you may be more successful starting new behavior.
 Personalities don’t change overnight. Give yourself plenty of time and space to turn behavior into an improved personality.
 In some cases, acting like a different person can lead to new friends, behaviors and success. Make sure this “fake” person aligns with your goals, so you don’t end up developing a negative trait. This works for many people, but if you don't know anyone with the traits you want try watching a movie to help you "fake it" until you make it. after awhile it will feel natural to act less shy, or more calm for example.
 Move on to a new trait once you are on your way to mastering the first one. For example, if you have made several new friends and started sharing opinions at work, perhaps it is time to work on a larger negative trait.

