 You can always order checks directly from your bank. While these checks will likely have your bank logo instead of personalized checks, they are relatively easy to order directly through your bank.You should get a limited quantity of checks when you first open a checking account at your bank. If you plan on writing a lot of checks, you may want to order checks immediately at your bank when you open your account.
Bank checks are sometimes cheaper than personalized checks, but check with your bank to verify the prices. Additionally, there will never be any problems between a third-party check company and your bank, since you are ordering directly from the bank.;
, At many banks, you can order checks directly from their mobile app. If you need checks quickly, this may be a good way to get checks while you’re on the go.You’ll need to sign into the mobile app. If you haven’t already set up an online account with your bank, you’ll likely need to do that first before you can access their mobile app.
For many banks, there should be a section on their mobile app called “Order Checks” or “Check Orders”. You can also check out the “Help & Support” section on the app to find where you can order checks using the app.
 Many banks prefer that you order checks online, since it’s quick and easy for you to do. Checks through your bank will be either their standard check or a personalized version through a vendor the bank does business with.First, you should log into your online account with your username and password. Again, you’ll need to have set up your online account first so you can order checks.
Once you log in, you should be able to order checks through your account. For some banks, they may have an approved vendor where you can order personalized checks for a fee.
 If you feel uncomfortable ordering checks online, you can also order by phone or at the bank. In both cases, make sure to have all your important account information available to give to the representative or bank teller.When ordering by phone, the representative should be able to pull up your bank account. You’ll likely need your account number, as well as your routing information to order check by phone.
You can also go to the bank to order checks. Bringing the initial set of checks your bank gave you can help expedite the ordering process.

