 The simplest way to maintain a great image is to be true to who you are and to be willing to share that honestly with other people. If you are still exploring your identity, then that is fine. Enjoy the process of finding who you are and what you like.

Try to avoid presenting yourself as something you are not to get someone to like you. It is important to find people who like and accept you for who you are. If you pretend to be something you are not, then this will become clear to people eventually.
 Dress in a way that is comfortable for you. Don’t dress in a way that you think others might find impressive. To avoid looking like you’re trying too hard, wear clothes that are casual and comfortable but still make you look good.Try to choose clothes that flatter your body and that you feel comfortable wearing. Avoid wearing clothes that are too tight or that make you feel self-conscious.
 Sometimes it’s easy to forget how many people can see your social media, including the gossipers in your life. Instead of posting directly to your crush’s page on social media, try texting or messaging them instead. This will keep your flirtations out of the public eye.If you are worried about your reputation in general, don’t post provocative pictures of yourself on social media. This will definitely garner attention, but it may not be the attention that you want.
 When you are texting or messaging your crush, don’t send explicit pictures or messages. Many people, younger girls in particular, think that they need to send these kinds of messages to get the attention of their crush. This is not true, and if the recipient of these texts decides to share them with his friends, he could do a lot of harm to your reputation.Even if your crush asks for these kind of texts, remember that you don’t owe them to him and that there are other ways to flirt.
Keep in mind that sexting may even be illegal if your crush is under the age of consent and you are over the age of consent (or vice versa).
 Save flirting for people that you are genuinely interested in. If you flirt with everyone in your class, you’ll get a reputation as a “player” or as someone who is desperate for a girlfriend or boyfriend. Even if you are just having harmless fun, flirting with a large amount of people can cause damage to your reputation.Be very careful to not flirt with a group of friends. For instance, if you flirt with one girl and she doesn’t seem into you, don’t flirt with her friends right after her. This will make you seem inconsiderate and shallow.
 Don’t make your love life the stuff of cafeteria gossip. Confide the details of your personal life only to trusted friends and acquaintances. Even if many people know your dating history or who you have asked out, stay mum about this aspect of your life, especially around people you know like to gossip.

