 When you make videos, you an share them on your personal Facebook, Twitter, and other social media accounts, but your friends might get annoyed pretty quickly every time you put up a video. Consider making a social media account for the channel itself, and asking your friends to subscribe to those specifically.Friend other popular YouTube channels on social media, and try to get the word out as much as possible.
Online forums for the topics you're interested in are also good places to promote your channel. If you do music reviews, post your videos on a music discussion board.
 If you want follows, it's important for you to follow and subscribe to lots of channels as well. You need to be a video-watcher as well as a video-maker. Often, if people recognize that you're making similar videos, they'll just automatically follow you back.
 One good way to attract attention to your channel is to comment positively and participate in the YouTube community. When you watch a video that you like, encourage the person who made it. Respond to a question asked in the video, or post a response video if you have something to say.


Be positive. Negative trolling comments won't get you any subscribers.
Don't advertise your channel on popular videos. Writing, "Hey check out my channel" on the newest Justin Bieber video just looks tacky, and won't yield you many subscribers.
 When people take the time to comment on your videos, try your best to find the time to respond to them. Even if the comment is on a video that's three months old, it's good to Try to keep up as much as possible and at least say something to your commenters.


If your videos start getting a lot of subscribers, this will get impossible pretty quickly. Still, it's important to interact with at least a few of the commenters on your newest videos. Try to keep up as much as possible.
Sometimes, the YouTube comment stream can be an ugly place. Don't argue with commenters. If someone's trolling your videos with crude stuff or dumb comments, just ignore them., Popular channels are often the ones that feature the most interaction with the fans and subscribers. Try to find ways to respond directly to your growing numbers of fans.


Pick good questions from the comments stream and answer those questions on camera.
Tell your subscribers that you're looking for ideas for new videos, and try out some of their ideas if they're good.
Invite your subscribers to post response videos to your videos. Invite your subscribers to comment with specific questions or comments.
 One technique that popular YouTube channels often employ is doing a special video of some kind for a subscription milestone. As soon as you get 100 subscribers, do a special video to commemorate. Bake a cake on your cooking video, or do a "Top 100 Songs of All Time" review on your music review channel.

