 Physical intimacy in the form of sex is not a performance, a chore, or a competition. Rather, it's the sincerest possible expression of your love for someone else and a way to cement the bond between you and this other person. At the very least, it should be fun, relaxing, and fulfilling, not stressful! Don't think of sex as something that has to be done a certain way or otherwise it's not "good" - rather, think of sex as a chance for you and your partner to be yourselves. This attitude extends to the way you view your partner as well - s/he is a real person with his or her own unique sexual likes and dislikes.


For example, let's say that a straight couple is having intimacy problems because the man in the relationship is self-conscious about his ability as a lover. The man is operating with mistaken assumptions of masculine adequacy - basically, he thinks it's a man's job to be the "active", "experienced" partner. Ironically, this very worry is what keeps him from gaining the seasoned experience and confidence he needs to be the best lover he can be. If the man saw sex as more of a form of self-expression and less as an opportunity to perform a pre-determined role, he would probably enjoy it more.
 Sex is like any other skill or hobby - devoting time and effort to it can make it much, much better. You may want to try using "traditional" romantic gestures - for instance, lighting aromatic candles, sharing a glass or two of wine, and having a close, affectionate talk on the couch, basking in the intimacy of the moment. Or, you may want to try something a little more off-beat that fits the two of you as a couple. It's up to you. Remember that, whatever you choose to do, all the scene-setting will lead up to a rewarding and enjoyable shared moment of love.
 Massage is excellent as a show of affection, as a method of foreplay, and as a way to get close to your partner. You may want to use a neutral oil (like grapeseed oil), especially if you or your partner have allergies. If not, however, you have the option of using a scented lotion or oil, which some partners may prefer. Pleasant sensations and smells can both relax and arouse.


Touching and being touched are both equally important, so learn both to give and to receive! If you're too jittery to receive a massage without breaking into giggles, try relaxing beforehand with some light exercise or a dip in a hot tub.
 From time to time, talk to your partner in order to learn about their likes and dislikes. Many people can be shy about expressing deep-held desires in the heat of the moment, in which case, talking about sex outside of the act itself is crucial for ensuring both partners are being satisfied.


Getting in the habit of focusing on your partner's satisfaction is a great idea. If both partners have this giving attitude, sex can become an incredibly gratifying, bond-strengthening activity.
 This seems obvious, but with the demands of work (and childcare, if you have children), many couples don't have the opportunity to go to bed at the same time. Going to bed together isn't just a chance to have sex (though it's that too!), it's an opportunity to confide in your significant other, building the intimate bond between the two of you. Many of a couple's most honest, candid conversations happen in bed, as it's one part of the day where it's virtually guaranteed that no one else is around. Giving up this special time means giving up a great chance for physical and emotional intimacy.


If your schedule simply doesn't allow you to go to bed at the same time as your partner, try at least to spend some time in bed together - before your partner gets out of bed, for instance. Also, have some way for your partner to signal you that s/he is "in the mood" so that you can make sure to be in bed with him or her when it counts.
 Teasing, kissing, heavy petting, and other foreplay techniques can be incredible tools for increasing the satisfaction that both partners achieve from sex. This is also an excellent way to discover what each partner likes, as most people are more sexually open when they're "in the mood". Don't rush things - take your time so that you can truly enjoy each moment.
 Experimenting during sex can be a wonderful thing. It's a great way to expand your horizons as a couple. However, if it's done without regard for your partner's feelings, you can end up really hurting him or her. It's acceptable to introduce new ideas to your partner, but never, ever try to push your partner into something s/he is reluctant to take part in. Doing so can lead to deep regret and irreparable damage.
 Just as it's important not to be sexually demanding of your partner, it's important not to let him or her be demanding of you. Never, ever feel like you need to express your physical affection in ways that make you uncomfortable. Rushing into sexual situations that you're not ready for can leave you with confusing, painful emotional scars. If your partner asks you to do something sexual that you're not ready to do, don't force yourself to do it out of either a sense of obligation or a desire to make your partner happy. Good, respectful partners will be more than patient and understanding. Over time, as you gain confidence as a lover, you may eventually find that you're interested in trying new things that once intimidated you. Listen to your inner voice and never feel a need to compromise in this area.
 With patience, time, and respect, eventually, you'll grow more comfortable and confident as a lover. As your love grows as couple, you can start to share your more intimate fantasies (and maybe even act some of them out!) So long as it is fun, gratifying, and done in a way that maintains the love and respect both partners have for each other, there is no harm in experimentation.

