 If you break the law in the United States, then your visa can be immediately revoked.You should immediately contact your country’s consulate if you have been accused of a crime inside the United States. You should use common sense and not do anything that you suspect might be illegal. Tourists should pay particular attention to the following:


Don’t travel with controlled substances. The United States has criminalized many drugs which might be legal in your country. Before leaving, you should check with the consulate about whether the drugs you take are legal in the U.S.
Be careful gambling. The United States is made up of 50 individual states. Each state can allow or prohibit gambling as it sees fit. Many states prohibit most forms of gambling. Betting money on sports is also illegal throughout the U.S., although it might be legal in your country.You should probably avoid gambling in the U.S., including gambling over the Internet.
 If you are arrested, then you should talk with an immigration attorney. You can find an immigration attorney by looking in a telephone book or searching on the web.


States also have “bar associations,” which are organizations made up of lawyers. The state you are in should have one. Usually, these associations give referrals to an attorney if you contact them.Speak freely with your lawyer. In the U.S., a lawyer must keep his or her client’s confidences. The lawyer can help you understand the consequences of getting arrested and can help you develop a plan for getting back home.
 You can apply to a school, but you can’t enroll in a school. If you do, then you will have violated your tourist visa. Once you violate your tourist visa, you are ineligible to switching your visa to student status in the future., You also can’t accept any job offer while in the country on a tourist visa.If you came to the U.S. to interview or talk with potential employers, then make sure to accept the job offer when you are back in your home country.


If you accept employment offers while in the U.S. on a tourist visa, you will be ineligible to switch your status to a work visa in the future.

