 If money is the primary concern, offer to pay for part of the 3DS. You can do this by saving up your allowance, holding an event like a garage sale or bake sale, or by saving up money from work if you’re old enough to get a job. Pitching in for the 3DS will take some of the financial burden off your parents and also show that you are serious about getting the game.


You can also offer to buy a used console and games to save money., If your parents agree to buy you the 3DS, they may want good behavior in return. Keep up your grades, help them around the house, and try not to complain too much about doing your chores. This compromise will make everyone happy.If you want to take it a step further, you can even write down all the chores you are willing to do in exchange for the 3DS. You can ask your parents if there is anything that they would like to add.
 Your parents may want more control of the content that you will be able to access through your Nintendo 3DS. If this is something that is pivotal in your parents’ decision, tell them about the parental controls that they can set up for you.These controls monitor what games you can play based on ratings and also can control your Internet usage.
You can also just agree to play whichever games your parents think are suitable for someone of your age.
 If your parents are primarily concerned about the amount of time you will spend playing the 3DS, suggest that you could play on a schedule. This would give your parents some control over how you use your device and how you spend your time in general.For instance, you could agree to only play the 3DS on weekends, or only after you have done all of your homework for the day.
 If your parents don’t often make extravagant purchases, suggest that they could give you the 3DS as a birthday or Christmas present. This makes money less of an issue and gives them some time to warm up to the idea of the console.


Since special occasions like Christmas, Hannukah or your birthday are some of the only times that you receive gifts, they may be more willing to give you something that you really want, even if they have their reservations about it.
 If your parents still refuse to get you the game no matter what compromises you suggest, don’t fight with them or sulk. Try to bear your disappointment with dignity. You never know, your parents may just need some time to warm up to the idea of getting the 3DS. If you act rude or angry, they are likely to not change their minds about getting you the console.