 One way to get rid of those pesky extra calories is to replace unhealthy drinks with water..


Sports drinks, sodas and alcoholic beverages don't satisfy hunger and just add empty calories.
Even diet drinks can have negative consequences on your weight. Research has shown that diet soda is linked to weight gain.
Drinking two 8 oz. glasses of water before each meal will help you to fill up your stomach so that you don't overeat.
Purchase a refillable water bottle and bring it with you wherever you go. That way, you can continue to hydrate yourself throughout the day without going for sugary drinks or sodas.;
, By eliminating foods that cause bloating, you will be able to look skinnier in no time.


Carbohydrates cause bloating, especially around your stomach where it will be most visible.
Simple carbohydrates are also easier to digest, so they leave you hungrier even though you've consumed plenty of calories.
Dairy can cause bloating if you have lactose intolerance or allergies.If this happens to you, switch to dairy substitutes. However, if you don't have this symptom, milk can be a healthy part of your diet.
 Having a lot of fiber in your diet helps you feel full sooner and for a longer period of time. It also moves fat through the digestive system so that less of it is absorbed into your body.


Swap out your morning bowl of cereal with oatmeal or some fat-free yogurt sprinkled with flaxseed instead.
Instead of pasta, add fiber rich foods like lentils, dry beans and vegetables to your diet.
 Complex carbohydrates in vegetables are digested more slowly than the carbohydrates in pizza and bread.


Vegetables also have a lot of water, so they help get rid of excess water weight.
Because vegetables are high in volume but low in calories, eating them will help you feel full faster while consuming less calories overall.
 Not only does dessert usually add extra calories when you are already satisfied and full, the high amounts of sugars and carbohydrates can also lead to bloating.


If you have a craving for something sweet, opt for fruit or a small square of dark chocolate instead. Dark chocolate is good for you!
Avoid places that can trigger your sugar cravings such as your favorite bakery, restaurant, the bakery section of the grocery store, or the candy section of the drugstore.
 When you lead a busy lifestyle, you often end up wolfing down food in your car, at your desk or while standing. This doesn't allow your body to let you know when it's fullWhen you eat slower, you give your brain the time to communicate with your stomach and tell you that it's time to stop eating.
When you feel satisfied with your meal, stop eating.
 In order to lose weight you need to remove calories from your diet responsibly.


A reasonable caloric goal for each day is about 1,200-1,500 in order to steadily lose weight.
Even though you're cutting calories, it is important to make sure that you are still getting the nutrients you need. Cut out foods that don't offer many nutrients (sugary drinks, desserts, and junk food) and make room for fresh vegetables, fruits, and lean meats.
If you cut your calorie intake too severely, your body will go into starvation mode and store more fat.

