 Minecraft Forge is a tool that manages your mods, allowing you to easily install multiple mods without having to manually edit files. Forge is free, and you can find detailed instructions for installing it here.;
, The files are downloaded as a single archive file. You can find the mod files on a variety of Minecraft mod databases, including MinecraftDL, Minecraft Forum, and MinecraftMods.


Make sure to download the Forge version when downloading the mod.
 To do this, open the Run dialog by pressing ⊞ Win+R. Type %appdata%/.minecraft and press ↵ Enter.
 Do not extract the mod file, simply copy and paste the unextracted "Too Many Items" file into the folder.
 Choose the Forge profile from the Profiles menu and start the game. You will see "Too Many Items" listed in the Mods menu of the Minecraft Main Menu.
 The Too Many Items mod changing Minecraft in a lot of significant ways, from creative building benefits to survival help. Learning how to use the different tools available can give Minecraft an entirely different feel.


Toggle the Too Many Items toolbar. As you are playing, you can toggle the toolbar on and off by pressing O. The toolbar is located in the upper-right corner, and normally appears when you open your inventory.
Add items to your inventory. When you open your inventory, the Too Many Items menu will appear, which will allow you to select every item in the game. You can add a stack of any of these items to your inventory by clicking on them. If you hold the ⇧ Shift key while clicking an item, an infinite stack of that item will be added to your inventory. Right-clicking an item in the menu will add a single one to your inventory.
Switch between Survival and Creative mode. You can use Too Many Items to quickly switch between the two main modes of Minecraft instantly. Simply press the C key to switch any time.
Adjust the environment around you. The Too Many Items toolbar allows you to instantly change the world around you, including time of day, weather, and even enemy difficulty. You can also restore your Health and Hunger with the click of a button.
Craft faster. Too Many Items allows you to speed up the crafting process by instantly creating the maximum number of items dictated by the number of items you put in to the recipe. Right-click on the crafting output square to perform instant crafting.