 This city is famous for its metro system, whose beautiful underground stations are tourist attractions in themselves. The Moscow Metro network is extensive, comfortable, cheap and efficient.


Plan your trip away from peak times (8am-11am and 5pm-8pm)
Bring an English map as all signs are in Russian
Buying a multi-ride ticket saves you lining up every time;
, Almost every street in Moscow is serviced by a bus or tram route. Some streets have overhead wires to accommodate electric trolleybuses, while others are fitted with tram tracks.


One trip costs 28R ($1USD) making buses, trolleys and trams a super inexpensive way to see the city.
The #7 trolleybus route is the most convenient to explore the major sites of Moscow. It runs from the Victory Park (Park Pobedy) to the Stone Bridge (Kamennyï Most) near the Kremlin, following the riverbank and up to Sparrow Hills (Vorobyovy Gory).
 Many unofficial cabs, known as ‘gypsy taxis’ cruise around looking for fares, but we recommend sticking to the official taxis, recognisable by their chequerboard logo on the side and/or a small green light in the windscreen.


Moscow taxi drivers almost never use metres (even if they have them fitted) so you’ll have to negotiate a fare first.
Bargaining is a must, and even then, taxi rides tend to be on the expensive side, best reserved for when public transport isn’t a convenient option.
 These mini-buses are found in both Moscow and St Petersburg. They travel along fixed routes but passengers can wave them down anywhere, like taxis.


You pay immediately (usually around 30R) once you get inside.
Tell the driver ‘stop’, or to be more polite, ‘ostano`vite po`zhaluista’ (stop please) as you approach your stop.
 The St Petersburg underground metro has the distinction of being the deepest in the world.


Uses a four line system is quite extensive and has a colour-coding system that makes it easy to follow
Bring an english map as all signs are in Russian.
A single ride is the same price (25R), no matter how far you’re going
Buy a multi-trip ticket to save on lining up

, In the summer months between 8am and 8pm, aqua-buses (water taxis) ferry tourists and commuters alike across the Gulf of Finland and the Neva River into St Petersburg’s network of canals, connecting downtown with some outlying areas of St Petersburg.


There are four fixed routes give you the chance to admire some of the city’s most beautiful landmarks from a unique perspective.
In season, dozens of tour boats, from small private launches to luxury cruisers with meals, drinks and live bands on board take tourists out on the water.
Night cruises can be particularly romantic.
 Trams and trolleybuses offer a pleasant and extremely inexpensive way to see the city, but only a few lines are convenient for hotels and tourist sights.


Two lines worth trying are the #14 tram, which runs from the Mariinsky Theatre up through the centre of town and across the Neva, and the # 1 tram, which runs through Vasilevsky Island, including a stop just outside the Vasileostrovskaya metro station.
 As in Moscow, there are plenty of unofficial ‘taxis’ skulking around.


Using an official taxi is safer and you can usually negotiate a fairer price.
Unfortunately, official taxis aren’t particularly common, except in the busier shopping and nightlife districts.
 Only Moscow and St Petersburg have metro systems, but the streets of most other large Russian cities are regularly plied by buses, marshrutkas and taxis. A lack of Russian can make understanding bus routes and the like confusing, if not impossible.
 The best way to sightsee in and around most Russian towns and cities is via an organized day trip, or as part of a longer guided tour.
 In the end jump in a taxi back to your hotel if you end up being over-tired.

