 National support groups and organizations help provide emotional support as well as information about new research and treatments. While CD is rare, there are active networks that can help put you in touch with others suffering from the same disease.


The Castleman Disease Collaborative Network maintains an active community of researchers, family, and people with CD. They also provide updates on recent research into the disease.RareConnect maintains an international, online support group for those with CD.
Although CD is not cancer, the American Cancer Society provides general support, as CD can potentially develop into lymphoma. Furthermore, many of the symptoms and treatments available are similar to cancer treatments.
 Clinical trials are research projects on new medications. While the trials are still experimental, they can potentially provide new, cutting edge treatments before they are available widely. By participating in these trials, you can help advance research on CD.


The US National Institute of Health keeps a database of clinical trials for CD that are currently active, recruiting, or completed.
The CDCN maintains a database of people with CD to aid researchers. By adding your information and pathology report to the ACCELERATE Patient Registry, you can contribute to research for treatments., Another way to contribute to new research is to donate your affected tissue after a biopsy or surgery. The CDCN currently manages collections of tissue for research. To see if you qualify, you can fill out a form on their website.
 Your personal support network will be invaluable in helping you remain strong and healthy during this time. If you are feeling upset, scared, or nervous, find someone you trust to talk to about these problems.


If you don't have someone close to you for support, you can still reach out to others. Places of worship can coordinate someone to help you with daily tasks if needed. Schools and universities may be able to provide accommodation. Your coworkers may be willing to pick up slack around the office.
Depending on the severity of your disease, you may need someone to give you rides to appointments, treatments, and possibly the hospital. Make sure you have one or two people who can commit to taking you.
If you are feeling depressed, hopeless, or anxious, you may want to contact a licensed therapist.

