 Use the internet to your advantage and do a search of the novel title to read a summary of the material online. Be wary of poor online sources and look for educational sources or information from a trusted study source.Keep in mind you should not copy any information online word for word in your exam. Use the information about the book online to help you get an overall picture of the plot points, the main characters, and the main themes of the book. You can then use this information to answer the exam questions.
Look for online resources that are known study websites and have a detailed breakdown of the text. You can also use the online resources to pick out key themes and terms from the book that you can then use as search terms to find more information on them. This information will likely be useful when you write the exam.
 When you do an online search of the material, focus on reading notes and comments that contain quotes or passages from the assigned text. This will allow you to get a sense of the tone, language, and style of the assigned text, which will likely be useful in your exam. Doing this will allow you to read small amounts of the assigned text, rather than the entire text.
 Head to your school library and do a search for reference articles or texts about the assigned text. Often, there will be scholarly articles on themes or characters in the text, as well as shorter texts that contain a synopsis of the book. This will give you a fundamental understanding of the material and reference points you can use in your exam.
 Depending on the assigned text, you may be able to find a film or television version of the book. However, some film or television adaptations may change around certain elements of the original book and you could end up viewing a version that deviates from the text.


You can check online to see if a television or film version of the film is available, as well as at your school library. Make sure you compare a synopsis of the text with the synopsis of the film or television adaptation to check for any discrepancies. You do not want to summarize a film version of Crime and Punishment in your exam, for example, that includes a drastic ending change. You may have to view several different film or television versions to find one that is close to the events in the book.

