 If you find yourself agitated, nervous, or frantic with regularity, you need to figure out how to reduce the amount of stress your body and mind endures. Chronic stress can damage and even destroy brain cells, harming your ability to form new memories or retrieve old ones. One of the most immediate ways to reduce stress is taking brief breaks from your daily grind. Relatedly, try to live a life that balances professional obligations and other responsibilities with fun and relaxing pursuits.If you find yourself constantly worrying about achieving expectations, you should re-evalauate the expectations you’re setting for yourself. Trying to achieve things that are unrealistic will actually diminish your productivity overall.
Focus on one thing at a time. Multi-tasking, especially trying to balance multiple tasks that require a lot of thought, can readily contribute to confusion and stress.
 More and more medical professionals are starting to recommend meditation. The practice has positive effects on both your physical and mental health. Plus, meditation can directly contribute to improvements in your ability concentrate, learn, reason, and express yourself creatively.Meditation increases your mental strength by encouraging activity in growth in areas of your brain tied to feelings of happiness and contentment as well as memory and mental clarity.
Start practicing by closing your eyes somewhere quiet, holding still, and counting. Try to push away thoughts as they arise and focus solely on counting.
 If you’ve been dealing with any sort of mental discomfort for some time, consider meeting with someone who can talk to you about your options. This is especially important for constant stress or depression. Therapists can talk to you about what you’re experiencing and help you plan a path to address the way you’re feeling and thinking. Further, it’s important to express your feelings, and many people find that this is easy to do with a trained mental health professional.Depression makes concentrating and remembering things harder. Treating depression can return your memory to its full capabilities.

