 It can be tricky to balance the vitamins and minerals present in your diet with any vitamin or mineral supplements you are taking. You should monitor your vitamin and mineral levels on a constant basis to ensure you are not absorbing too much of a certain vitamin or mineral, as this can cause health problems.For example, iodine supplements are useful for individuals with hypothyroidism who do not consume iodized salt in their diet or any other sources of iodized salt, such as seafood or fast food. You may be low in iodine and require iodine through supplements as there is not enough iodine in your diet.
If you do eat iodized salt and foods that contain iodized salt, you may not need iodine supplements as too much iodine can cause adverse health issues. Talk to your doctor before taking any supplements for your thyroid problems.
 If you are suffering from hypothyroidism, you should consider taking minerals like iodine, selenium, and zinc. These minerals can help your thyroid get the minerals and vitamins it needs to function properly. Look for high quality mineral supplements from health food stores or supplement stores, as this will ensure you are taking supplements that contain enough minerals.You can take iodine supplements (150-1500 mcg/day) or have ½ teaspoon of iodized table salt a day.
Take selenium supplements, 200-400 mcg/day.
You can also take zinc supplements, 20-40 mg/day and copper supplements, 4-5 mg/day. This will prevent copper deficiency., You should also integrate vitamin supplements into your daily routine to maintain your health and keep your energy levels up.Fish oils are anti-inflammatory and can help to reduce auto-antibodies present in your body due to hypothyroidism. Have 2-3 grams of omega-3 fish oils every day. If you have been diagnosed with a type of hypothyroidism called Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, you can increase your intake of omega-3 fish oils to 3-4 grams a day.
Take 2-3 times the recommended daily amount of B-vitamins to help maintain high energy throughout the day.
You can also take 1000-2000 IU of vitamin D a day.
You can take anti-oxidants like beta-carotene (3-6 mg/day), vitamin C (1000-3000 mg/day) and vitamin E (400-8000 IU/day).
 You can also integrate botanical supplements into your diet or cook with botanicals to improve your health. For example, spices like turmeric, cayenne pepper, and ginger as well as healthy oils like olive oil can all be taken as supplements or used in cooking.


You can also take natural supplements like Boswellia, grape seed extract, green tea, and pycnogenol or Maritime Pine., A normally functioning thyroid will produce prohormones known as T4 or thyroxine, which is then converted to an active form known as T3 or triiodothyronine. If you have a thyroid problem and your thyroid is not working properly, your doctor should monitor your T4 and T3 levels on a regular basis. She may also recommend that you take thyroid replacement hormones to increase your T4 and T3 levels, allowing your thyroid to function more normally.Individuals with hypothyroidism can take thyroid replacement hormones to increase their T4 levels using synthetic T4, also known as Levothyroxine. You can also take synthetic T3, known as Liothyronine or Cytomel if you cannot convert T4 well in your body. Synthetic T3 is a good option for individuals who do not want to consume animal products or pork products.
Thyroid hormones can be derived from animal sources, primarily pig. Many bio-identical thyroid hormones contain dried pig thyroids. Talk to your doctor about hormones from animal sources, such as Armour, Erfa, and Nature-Throid, if you are concerned about using synthetic hormones.
 Your doctor should direct you to have your replacement thyroid hormones on an empty stomach to allow your body to absorb the thyroid properly. You should also avoid eating certain foods or foods that contain too much dietary fiber at the same time as you take the hormones, including:Walnuts
Soybean flour
Cottonseed meal
Iron supplements or multivitamins containing iron
Calcium supplements
Antacids that have aluminum or magnesium
Ulcer medications or drugs that can help to lower your cholesterol levels
Have these foods several hours before or several hours after consuming your replacement thyroid hormones to ensure there are no adverse reactions in your body to the hormones.

