 Keep replaying the race, while studying the racing line and the map route. Having to keep watching the racing line can easily let you fly into a wall at high speed, which can lose you the race, even if you're only half a mile from the finish line. If there's a point you keep crashing at, remember it, figure out how to deal with it, and keep an eye out for it in future races. Know when the straights are, and view the map every now and then while racing, just so you know what's coming up.;
, Crashing and banging into the other racers will slow you down, and can send you spiraling out of control and into last place. The AI is rubber band, meaning you won't stay too far ahead for long. If you're out front, don't worry about how close they are and keep checking the map. If you go too slow, they'll overtake you. If that happens, just try to keep the pedal a little lower to the floor, as long as it's safe.
 Most races will have at least a few twists and turns, so drift tires and a high drift setting will be helpful in the majority. Grip tires are only very useful in drag races, as turning a corner with them equipped is nearly impossible. If a race has a lot of straights, choose time-refill nitrous and set it for duration. If a race is very windy, choose action-refill nitrous and set it for power. Individual tuning choices can make it easier than just keeping one setup for every race and hoping it will suffice.
 This will make everything easier. Looks won't get you anything but a good snapshot and praise from fellow players, it's the performance that makes the magic happen. Use your money to get your car as quick as can be, and once it's fully upgraded work on the bodywork. Wraps are fine, however, since they're free, and they can make even a plain old Honda Civic look intimidating.
 Like sliding round corners and pulling off tight and technical turns? Use drift tires. Like speeding along the highways for miles on end? Use grip tires. Tires and nitrous are really all you need to choose between, as this game follows the classic Need for Speed formula: Bolt on the best upgrades you can until you don't even recognise the sound of your own car anymore.
 One car will carry you most of the way in this game, as long as you keep on making it faster. The three starter cars you can choose from aren't very good in the long run, so save up and buy a reasonably cheap, but reasonably fast car. The BMW E46 M3 and the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VIII are both good choices, but either will do.


When near the end of the game, it can be best to sell your car and buy a very fast car. The Aventador is expensive, but it's arguably the fastest car in the game, and it will easily win you the game.
 Later races can reward you over $10,000, so get to these and make good use of the cash they offer. Once you finish the game, you can use all your cash to buy and tune some cars for fun! Once you finish the career, the best you'll be able to get from a race is $8,000, which is a fair amount, but these aren't as rewarding as the career races.

