 This area only needs to be as long and as wide as your own body (plus any other individuals needing to use the shelter.
 Remove branches, twigs, and leaves from these "poles".


Dig four holes for the posts using a sharpened stick. The holes should be places at the length and width of the shelter's dimensions.






Pound in the poles until they sit about waist-high to you; this means pushing the poles into the ground about 30cm/1 foot.
 Use a pocket knife or a sharp stick for this purpose. Face each notch outwards and make it about 2.5cm (2").
 For this, collect six straight sapling trunks or branches of about 10cm (4") in diameter. They need to be both straight and sturdy as they're going to support your weight.


Lengths: 2 saplings need to be 60cm (2 feet) longer than the shelter's width and the other 4 saplings need to be 60cm (2 feet) longer than the length of the shelter.
 Using one of the two shorter saplings, place it into the notches at the head of the shelter. Do the same for the foot of the shelter. These form the crossbars of the frame. Secure these using rope, reeds, vines, grasses, bandannas, etc. Leave a protruding overlap on each side of the bars of about 30cm (1 foot) for laying the side frame onto.
 Using the longer saplings, place one each side of the shelter, laying over the already lashed-on crossbars.
 Gather about one dozen straight branches 5cm (2") in diameter and about 60cm (2 feet) longer than the width of the shelter. Arrange them all the way along the side bars of the frame to form a bed base and lash together.
 Look for five straight branches or saplings of 5cm (2") in diameter.


One branch needs to be 60cm (2 feet) longer than the length of the shelter (it forms the apex).






The other four branches need to be 60cm (2 feet) longer than the width of the shelter (these make the gables).
 As with the base, carve an outward notch about 2.5cm to 5cm (1-2 inches) from the top of the poles. Lay the unused long, thick saplings gathered for the base to form the crossbars. Lash into place.


Add the gable branches. Lash them together at a right angle, then lash the ends of this arrangement to the head posts.






Do this same thing at the foot end of the shelter. Note that if you don't want gables, it might be okay to simply lay the branches and leaves across the the crossbars to create a flat roof. The only problem with this is that if a lot of water pools on the roof, it has nowhere to flow and could collapse on you, wetting you thoroughly.






Lash the apex sapling into the V shape at the top of each gable so that the roof gains a lengthwise crossbar.
 Use branches of about 2.5cm (1") thickness to place horizontally from one end of the shelter to the other. Lash them into place firmly.


Drape broad leaves over the branches in the fashion of roof shingles.


