 There are many different events all across Detroit throughout the summer.  Some of the biggest events sell out fast, so be sure to plan ahead early if attending one during your trip is a priority.  Some of the events include:


Movement Electronic Music Festival - Memorial Day Weekend - Detroit
Detroit Belle Isle Grand Prix - Late May/early June - Belle Isle
Detroit Riverdays & Ford Fireworks - Late June - Detroit Riverfront
Woodward Dream Cruise - 3rd Saturday in August - Ferndale to Pontiac
Arts, Beats & Eats - Labor Day Weekend - Royal Oak
Dally in the Alley - Saturday after Labor Day - Midtown Detroit;
, While you're in town, be sure to check out beautiful Comerica Park and catch the Boys of Summer in action.  Their schedule can be found on the Tigers website.
 Maybe you're more into the World's game than you are into America's pastime.  If that's the case, you can check out Detroit City FC at Cass Tech High School.  With an environment like no other, you can enjoy the game from the "family friendly" side of the stands or get the full DCFC experience by joining the Northern Guard Supporters on the opposite side of the pitch.  You can find Le Rouge's schedule on their website and be sure to head down to Harry's Bar before the match for pregame festivities.
 If you can't find any events you'd particularly like to visit, there are plenty of other options for you to enjoy during your stay.  Just be sure to plan enough time for everything you would like to see and do while you're here.
 The Detroit area is serviced by Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW).  Most major airlines fly in/out of DTW including Delta, Southwest, United, American Airlines, and more.  Unfortunately, the airport is located somewhat far from Detroit proper.  The cab fee between DTW and the city can be a bit expensive, so it may be in your best interest to rent a car, especially for a lengthier trip.
 The Detroit area is also easily accessible by either bus or train.  Both Amtrak and Greyhound have stops throughout the Detroit area in Ann Arbor, Dearborn, Royal Oak, Troy, Pontiac, and Downtown as well.  The area is also serviced by MegaBus with stations in Detroit and Ann Arbor and via Rail Canada with a station across the river in Windsor.  Many of the major Bus/Train routes will route you through Chicago on the way to Detroit, so this may be an inconvenience for people travelling from nearer areas.
 For those people within reasonable driving distance, travelling via car may be the best option for you.  Detroit has three major interstates that run straight through the Downtown area and to the adjacent suburbs – I-75 from the North and South, I-94 from the East and West, and I-96 from the West.  As with most major cities, Detroit does become snarled with rush hour traffic on the freeways and surface streets before and after the workday, so plan accordingly and leave yourself plenty of time to get from point A to B. 


Also important to note is that summer is construction season in Michigan.  You can check the Michigan Department of Transportation’s website for an update on scheduled construction and closures to assist in your travels.
 Whether it’s your first trip to Detroit, or your 100th, the Detroit Bus Company offers tours of the city to people of ages and interest groups.  Whether you’re looking for a general tour of the city or something geared towards your interests, chances are they have a tour for you.  Throughout the summer, the DBC offers historical tours hitting some of the major (and not so major) landmarks, tours that view some of Detroit’s many street art works, and even tours of historic bars and prohibition hot spots.  On many of these tours, you are allowed to bring your own beer, but make sure to check the website ahead of time.  Don’t forget to tip your tour guide and driver if you feel so inclined after the trip!

, One of Detroit’s best gems is also one of Michigan’s largest family attractions.  The Detroit Zoo, located just north of Detroit in Royal Oak, is home to some really incredible exhibits featuring Lions, Tigers, and you guessed it – bears as well!  The Zoo is home to North America’s largest Polar Bear exhibit, The Arctic Ring of Life.  It also houses newly opened wolf and beaver exhibits, a walk through kangaroo exhibit, and a new penguinarium will soon be opened to the public.  The Zoo is fun for the whole family, so be sure to check it out!

, The Detroit Institute of Arts, or simply the DIA for short, is home to one of the largest art collections in the United States.  Located in the heart of the city in Midtown Detroit, the collection is home to works from many of your favorite artists and sculptors.  The museum is also home to an extensive collection of historical artifacts from cultures around the world.  Possibly its biggest claim to fame is the Diego Rivera Detroit Industry Murals located in the museum’s Rivera Court.  The murals were recently given National Historic Landmark status and are truly a site to see.  Be sure to check the DIA’s website for information on special exhibitions going on throughout the summer.  Bonus – After you’re done at the DIA take a stroll just a couple blocks away to the nearby Detroit Historical Museum, the newly re-opened Michigan Science Center, and The Scarab Club of Detroit.
 If you’re looking to try to win some money (or maybe just donate some of it to the city) there are four major casinos in the area.  Greektown Casino is located just a few blocks from Comerica Park, Ford Field, and Campus Martius Park downtown.  This casino offers a hotel and plenty of various restaurants and bars in the near vicinity.  Motor City Casino and MGM Grand Detroit are both located just outside of the downtown area.  Both of these casinos offer a hotel as well as on-site restaurants and bars.  Finally, Caesar’s Windsor, located across the river in Windsor, ON also offers a hotel and restaurants as well as various concerts and comedy acts throughout the year.
 Hitsville, U.S.A. or the Motown Historical Museum was once home to the recording studio of acts such as Diana Ross and the Supremes, Stevie Wonder, and the Jackson 5.  Here you can take in a part of musical history and step into the studio where these Motown artists got their start.  The museum is located just a few short minutes from Downtown and is conveniently located just off the Lodge freeway.
 If you’d like to see some of the famous architecture of the city as well as learn about the history of many of the historic buildings downtown, a Pure Detroit Walking Tour may be right for you!  These tours generally occur every Saturday throughout the summer and tour such buildings such as the Fisher Building in the New Center area and the Guardian Building located downtown, as well as the Woodward Historic District and the various skyscrapers located downtown.  These tours generally last less than an hour and are free to the public.  Check out Pure Detroit’s Facebook page for more information.
 Recently becoming a state park, Belle Isle Park is truly a Detroit gem.  The park is located on Belle Isle, a small island on the Detroit River just a few short minutes from downtown.  The park has plenty of picnic, fishing, and hiking areas as well as various monuments and historic buildings.  Also located in the park are the Belle Isle Nature Zoo, the Belle Isle Aquarium, the Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory, the Dossin Great Lakes Museum, and even Detroit’s only public beach!  With plenty to do on the island, be sure to plan for a full day of fun!

, Detroit really has something for everyone.  If you’re looking for more things to do, consider checking out these other places


Eastern Market – Detroit’s farmer’s market and state historic site.  Pick up some fresh fruits and veggies, eat at one of the many restaurants in the vicinity, and check out the building murals.  Open throughout the week, but the biggest market is generally on Saturdays during the summer.
Detroit Riverwalk – Take a walk along the Detroit River and check out the view while you’re at it!  There are various parks and entertainment along the river from Joe Louis Arena and to the Renaissance Center and beyond.  Take out a book from one of the community library stands and relax in a comfy chair or join in a pickup game of volleyball on one of the Riverwalk’s courts.
Historic Fort Wayne – Located along the river in Southwest Detroit, Historic Fort Wayne offers war re-enactments, vintage baseball games, and flea markets throughout the year.  The fort is a Michigan historic site and holds various events throughout the year.
The Henry Ford and Greenfield Village – Located in Dearborn, The Henry Ford and Greenfield Village offer a trip back in time for children and adults alike.  You can check out the large collection of vehicles, aircraft, and pop culture in the Henry Ford museum and step back to the 17th century to witness American history come alive in Greenfield Village’s many historical buildings.  Bonus – Hop on a bus at the museum and take a trip to tour the Ford River Rouge factory, home of the assembly line and the Ford Model A.
 There’s an old saying in Michigan that, “If you don’t like the weather, wait ten minutes.”  This can be especially true during the summer.  The weather can range from mild to hot and muggy and pop-up thunderstorms are certainly a possibility.  Check the weather before leaving on your trip and be sure you’re prepared for all possibilities.
 When travelling throughout downtown Detroit, parking is generally available in most areas.  Most of the lots will require you to pay and many do not accept credit card as a form of payment.  It’s best to have some cash on hand for this purpose.
 Detroit is notorious for its poor public transit system.  However, there are some forms available.  The Detroit People Mover serves the Downtown area with stops ranging from Greektown to Cobo Hall.  Many of the major attractions downtown are within a few blocks of a People Mover station and the rate is much cheaper than a cab at $.75 one way.  Outside of the Downtown area, the SMART bus system runs through much of the suburban Detroit area.  While the SMART Bus system isn’t as well developed as the bus systems in other major cities, it is available for your use.
 The town of Windsor, ON is only a few minutes away over the Ambassador Bridge or through the Detroit-Windsor Tunnel.  If you'd like to visit Windsor, be sure to bring your passport.

