 As the leader of the group, you will be need to manage tasks and goals in the group. Prepare agendas for each group meeting so the discussion stays on track. Make to-do lists for any tasks or goals that need to be achieved by the group. Hand out the to-do list to the group or write it down on a whiteboard so everyone can see it during group meetings.If the group tends to meet online, email out to-do lists to the group.
Once a task or goal is achieved, cross it off the list so everyone in the group can feel accomplished.
 Do not be afraid to delegate tasks to specific group members, especially if the task is large or demanding. Divide a large task among several people in the group. Check that each person knows their role and their responsibilities as a group member. Write down each task and who is responsible for it so everyone is aware in the group.For example, if the group is trying to raise money for a charity event, you may delegate the task of advertising the event among one to two people in the group and delegate the task of getting supplies for the event among two other people in the group.
 As a leader, it is important that you support any group members who look like they need help. Do not micromanage everyone in the group. Rather, pay attention to how group members are working together. Take notice if one person seems to be struggling or needs assistance. Offer them help and encourage other group members to support the person.For example, you may notice a group member falling behind on their work for the group. Pull them aside. Let them know you there for any help or support they may need. Arrange for them to work with another group member so they can complete their work.
 Make sure you acknowledge the hard work of the group by rewarding them. Recognize the group’s accomplishments by using verbal praise as well as by doing kind actions. Doing this will show the group that you support them as a leader and want them to succeed.For example, you may tell the group, “You all did a great job on the charity event. Thank you for all your help. I couldn’t have done it without you.”
You may also treat the group to dinner or drinks as a way of showing your appreciation for their hard work.

