 Don't try to put on an act. Just try to be confident in yourself and you will shine through.;
, Remember that if a guy really likes you he would not care if you came all dolled up with make-up, wore the most expensive and trendy clothes and came in the swankiest of cars. What a guy wants to see is the real you.
 Eat healthily and exercise three to four times a week. It is attractive to be a girl that looks after herself.
 If you want to, wear a bit of makeup. Remember, subtle is sexy.
 If he knows you, he will be more likely to come up to you.


Realize that some guys may be just too shy or introverted and may not have the courage to come up to a girl. But do not be disheartened; instead, still try to strike a friendship with him because once he opens up to you, he might be one of the most amazing persons in the world.
 Just keep it light and flowing. See what his response is towards you. If he reacts favorably, then you are good to go or else just casually end the conversation. Chances are that he might remember you from then on and might eventually strike a friendship with you.
 If he knows that you are willing to do things with him, he will want to talk to you and maybe even flirt with you.


Talk to him on regular basis talk about things he likes. Add a bit of your likes into the "conversation".
 This could be studies, a work assignment or even a social event. He will notice you and you won't look desperate, just friendly.
 If the two of you are in the same class, chances are that some interesting topic might spring up during class which might prove to be a great conversation starter and would set you talking.
 It will help you to know if the guy is really worth your time and if you are really made for each other. If you have no common friend just try to befriend some of the girls he is friends with. This might help to create some sort of bridge between the two of you.
 Chances are that the guy must have already noticed you and soon enough strike a friendship with you if he likes what he hears about you. Many guys, believe it or not, are bigger gossip mongers than girls and would like to know all about everyone!

, If in spite of all you have done to encourage his interest, he does not come up to you, he might just be in a relationship with another girl or plain disinterested in your friendship. Don't feel disheartened because something better must definitely be in store for you.
 If a guy shows enough interest in you you are raring to go and have a rocking relationship!

