 In some social events, it's a bad idea to skip out. An event for work or school, for example, could help you make connections. If your career or relationships will colleagues depend on an event, you should make an effort to attend.For example, look at events like a boss's birthday party or a mixer with members of your graduate program. These events allow you to make connections and keep up good relationships at work and school. It's probably a bad idea to miss such events.
However, other events are low-key. If your friends are having a bowling night, for example, it won't hurt your career to skip out.;
, Consider the feelings of other people involved. Is anyone counting on you to go? Did you make a strong commitment to an event? How disappointed will people be if you don't show up?For example, your friend may be hurt if you skip their birthday party. Friends may also be hurt if you made a strong commitment to something. If you and your friends have been planning a camping trip for months, for example, it may be a bad idea to skip it at the last minute.
Social events that are less important can usually be avoided without too much trouble. For example, if your friends have a movie night every week it's unlikely anyone will feel too bad if you stay at home one day.
 People tend to be happier when they have meaningful interactions with others over small talk. An event may be more worth your while if you're going to have interactions that matter there.If you're very close to some of the people attending, you're more likely to have meaningful interactions that will help you feel refreshed upon leaving.
However, if it's mostly strangers and acquaintances, you may not have as much fun.
 Be honest about whether you can afford to go out. Think about how much money you'll be spending and consider other expenses you have for the month or week. If your budget is looking tight, stay in the for the night and save some money.If you want to go out even though money is tight, try limiting how much you spend. Bring cash instead of relying on a debit card and only spend as much cash as you have on you.

