 Centenarians have experienced a lot of changes, events, and momentous occasions. Capturing their story in a video or slideshow presentation is an excellent way to preserve their memories and honor their life. Produce a video or slideshow presentation that contains photographs, documents, memorabilia, and video clips.


Ask your local historical society to conduct an oral history interview with the guest of honor.
Give your guests copies of the presentation as a party favor.
If you aren’t tech-savvy, create a handmade timeline documenting the centenarian’s life and achievements.;
, Sometimes the best gifts of all are words of appreciation and funny anecdotes. Throughout the party, circulate a guest book. Encourage guests to take a few minutes to write a personal message to the centenarian. At the end of the party, present the book of memories to the centenarian.


Instead of a traditional guest book, create a video guest book. Show the film at the end of the party., On the invitation, ask guests to bring an item that reminds them of the centenarian. At the event, guests can explain the item’s significance to the guest of honor before placing it in a time capsule. Once everyone has put in their item, bury or lock the time capsule.


Let the guest of honor decide when the time capsule may be opened., Work with a local bakery to create a custom cake for the centenarian’s birthday celebration. You may order a show-stopping centerpiece that commemorates different aspects of the centenarian’s life or purchase a simply decorated and delicious sheet cake. When you bring out the cake at the party, sing “Happy Birthday” to the guest of honor.


Make sure the cake you order has enough room to hold one hundred candles!
Order enough cake for all of your guests., To commemorate the occasion, print a birthday greeting or announcement in your local newspaper. Send your guests home with copies of the newspaper at the end of the party. Following the celebration, have the newspaper clipping professionally framed and present it to the centenarian.


You could also print a birthday greeting in the guest of honor’s favorite magazine publication.
You could even ask a local news station to wish the guest of honor a happy birthday.
 If the guest of honor is an excellent chef or a notorious foodie, present him or her with a book of one hundred family recipes. Dedicate the cookbook to the centenarian and send each of your guests home with a copy.


Collect the recipes from the centenarian’s personal recipe box and from other family members.
In addition to the recipes, include stories and pictures associated with each dish.