 Keep in mind that your puppy wasn't born automatically knowing the rules of living in a human world. When your boxer puppy gets overexcited or misbehaves, it isn't because he is a fundamentally bad dog, but because he doesn't know any better. It's your job to teach him new behaviors that appropriate for coexisting and living with other animals and humans as well.
 Doing so will help you understand your new Boxer puppy while training him. Boxer dogs are a delight but they're also exuberant clowns that have a lot of energy and need plenty of stimulation, including lots of playtime and walks. This can make an unruly Boxer a bit of a pain to be around as he may pounce on you, almost cat-like, to get your attention, which for a 60 to 70-pound dog can be quite painful. Also, the poorly trained Boxer may insist you play when he wants to, which again can be a nuisance if you want to quietly sit and watch TV.Boxers by nature are loyal to humans, they generally get along with other pets in the household, and they tend to like children, usually playing gently when appropriate. Build on and reward these positive traits when training your puppy.
Also bear in mind that Boxers have a reputation for taking up to three years to mature mentally, and can remain in a puppyish state until then, which for a big dog can be problematic if he wants to jump, pounce, paw, and dig at you. Luckily, good training can help settle your dog down.It's important to note as well that although Boxer dogs as a breed may share some general characteristics, just as people have different personalities, so too do Boxer dogs. Though the breed tends to be energetic and hyper, it's also possible that your puppy may be shy or more relaxed.
 You need to understand what they want and need in order to train them. Boxers are extremely intelligent but sometimes hide it well behind their boisterous facade. They like people and are eager to please them, making Boxers an ideal breed for reward-based training, which relies on rewarding good behavior, while ignoring behavior. In other words, mobilize these inner traits of the breed in the training process; indeed, doing this is key to successful training.Keep in mind that giving Boxer puppies what they need will help ensure that they don't engage in "bad behaviors". For example, Boxers need to play and be thoroughly walked. If you don't do this, they often become bored and destructive. Increased physical activity helps a dog stay healthy and also tires him out. Keep your dog active (and not destructive) by playing fetch and going on substantial walks at least twice a day.

