 Facial masks can aid the skin’s healing process and minimize pimples. Astringent herbs tighten the skin while the antibacterial herbs help kill off bacteria. Try the following mask for oily skin:


Mix 1 tablespoon of honey, 1 egg white, and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice. Since lemon juice is a bleaching and whitening agent, you can substitute witch hazel if you don’t want to use lemon juice.Add ½ teaspoon of either tea tree or Boswellia essential oil.
Spread the mask over your face, neck, or other problem area. You can use a cotton swab to dab the mixture on specific problem areas.
Let the mixture dry for 15 minutes, then rinse off completely with lukewarm water. Pat dry, then follow with a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 Processed sugars and dairy products can cause acne in some people by increasing inflammation and producing an environment for bacteria to grow. Studies have shown low-glycemic index, or low sugar, foods can reduce acne. Consider eliminating sugary soft drinks from your diet.Another change that might help decrease acne is switching dairy products and fatty foods for more vegetables in your diet.


Low GI foods include rolled oats and bran cereals; whole wheat and whole grain breads; vegetables, except beets, pumpkin, and parsnips; nuts; fruits aside from watermelon and dates; legumes; yogurt; and brown rice, barley, and whole grain pasta. , Vitamins A and D are believed to be the most important for skin health.Omega-3 fats can help with acne because they have anti-inflammatory properties.Vitamin A rich foods include sweet potatoes, spinach, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, red peppers, summer squash. Fruit, such as cantaloupe, mangoes, and apricots, also contains a lot of vitamin A. Legumes, meat, and fish, such as herring and salmon, also provide good amounts.Vitamin D rich foods include salmon and tuna, along with cod liver oil. Dairy, such as milk, yogurt, and cheese, also has vitamin D.The best way to get Vitamin D is to be out in the sun for 10 to 15 min in the morning or late afternoon three to four times a week.Omega-3 fatty acids are found in flaxseeds, flaxseed oil, chia seeds, butternuts, and walnuts. Fish, like salmon, sardines, mackerel, and whitefish, are excellent sources of omega-3s. Basil, oregano, cloves, and marjoram contain omega-3s, so do vegetables like spinach and Chinese broccoli., Oil is one of the best ways to wash an oily face because it removes oil and dirt without stripping your skin.Cleanse your face twice a day with the cleanser. Also use it after you sweat.


Choose a non-comedogenic oil, like argan oil, hemp seed oil, shea nut oil, sunflower oil, olive oil, or castor oil. Choose either tea tree or Boswellia essential oil to add to the cleanser.
Add three to five drops of essential oil for every fluid ounce of oil. Mix the two oils well. Store away from light.
 Pour a small amount of the oil mixture into your hand and massage onto your face for two minutes. Use small, circular motions. Place a washcloth you have soaked in warm water on your face. Leave it on your face for 20 seconds. Then, gently wipe off the oil. Rinse the washcloth in warm water and repeat until all the oil is removed from your skin.


Don't rub too hard or you will irritate your skin.
Pat your face dry with a cotton towel.
 Don’t be in the sun or use tanning beds. Sunlight and tanning beds can damage your skin cells because of damaging UVB radiation. Certain acne medications even make your skin more sensitive to the sun.

