 Invitations are important and are a great way to introduce your guests to the theme of the party. Look for train ticket invites at the party store, or order them specially printed online. If you want to save some money, draw them up by hand on cardstock.


Be sure to include what the event is, where it will take place, and when it's happening.
Use phrases like "Come aboard for a party," "Next stop fun," or "Here's your boarding pass for a good time!";
, Grab a wooden dowel rod and either a piece of cardboard or a piece of plywood. Paint on the sign something like “Marshall’s Depot” or “Last Stop for Fun.” Attach the sign to the rod. Set the sign up at the end of your driveway or at the entrance to the party to let people know they are in the right spot.If you use cardboard, attach the sign with hot glue or other craft glue. For a wooden sign, you could drill two holes in the sign and use zip ties or string to tie it to the pole.
Stick the rod into the ground, sit it in a traffic cone, or wedge it between two rocks or cinder blocks. If it’s especially windy, you may want to have the sign inside.
 Buy a roll or two of black duct tape. Either out on your sidewalk or in your house, use the duct tape to make train tracks. Stretch out two long pieces for the rails and then lay short pieces across for the wooden planks.If you do it outside, have it lead right up to your door. If you do it inside, have it lead to the food or to the bathroom.
If your child is old enough, let them help you put the tape down so they feel like they’re part of planning the party.
 Use cardboard boxes that are large enough for kids to sit down in. Draw or paint on the boxes so they look like various train cars. Cut the flaps off of the box so the kids can climb into them. Set the boxes up in a row and have kids sit or stand in them for a photo opportunity., Hang a "Boarding Platform" sign on the front door. Draw a "Dining Car" sign and hang it over the food table. If you have a place for coats, shoes, and bags, hang a "Baggage Claim" sign by that area. A sign that points to the rest room is also a good idea.This is a great way to get creative based on how your party space is set up. You have many options for signs.
 Piñatas are great because they function as a decoration first and an activity second. Go to your local big-box store or party store and request a train engine piñata. Fill it with candy, small prizes, or other snacks and toys. Hang it from the ceiling near the area where the kids will play.


Be sure to use caution when the kids are breaking it open. Keep any kids who are not hitting it away from the child who is hitting it.

