 If you suspect that you have an allergy to latex, you'll want to speak to your doctor to learn more about your condition. Your doctor will be able to test if you are allergic to latex and discover how serious your allergic reactions might be. Knowing what to expect from your latex allergy can help you avoid contact with latex, manage symptoms and obtain emergency care if you have a severe allergy.Your doctor can perform skin tests to gauge how strongly your body reacts to latex.
You can give a blood sample to your doctor to be tested for allergies to latex.
 If you have a severe and possibly life-threatening allergy to latex, your doctor may prescribe you an epinephrine pen. This shot will help mitigate your allergic reaction and give emergency services time to reach you after a dangerous reaction to contact with latex. Talk with your doctor to learn more about epinephrine pens and if one is right for you.Your doctor will be able to instruct you on the proper use of an epinephrine pen.
If you are prescribed an epinephrine pen, you'll want to carry it with you in case of emergencies.
 If you have mild allergic reactions to latex, you can help manage your symptoms by taking antihistamines. Antihistamines are used to reduce most common symptoms brought on by allergies, including some reactions to latex. Ask your doctor if an antihistamine prescription is right for you.Antihistamines can help make you more comfortable after exposure to latex.
Antihistamines may only be appropriate if your reactions are mild or moderate.
 Since there is no cure for an allergy to latex, you'll need to avoid all contact with it. Avoiding contact is the only method of preventing future allergic reactions to latex. Keep some of these tips in mind to help you avoid latex:Learn which products contain latex.
Find products to replace those containing latex.
Tell those that you know about your allergy and how they can help.
Always inform medical staff about your allergy.
Consider wearing a bracelet that lets others know about your allergy to latex.
Talk with your doctor to learn more about your allergy.
 If you've accidentally come in contact with latex and are having a severe reaction, you'll need to contact emergency services. Emergency services will be able to manage your symptoms until the allergic reaction comes to an end. If you are having a severe reaction to latex, don't hesitate to contact emergency services or have someone take you to an emergency room.In the United States, dial 911 to contact emergency services.
You may need to provide basic information about your condition and location.
If you are traveling, make sure you have the local phone number for emergency services ready.

