 Among a mass of adolescent and teenage students, being clean and well groomed can really make you stand out. When puberty starts causing more body odor, you can impress your classmates by taking good care of yourself. Shower and wash daily. Use deodorant and even consider cologne or perfume, but be sure not to overpower or it will have the opposite effect. Brush your teeth daily. Wear clean clothes and keep your hair neat. Your classmates will notice if you are always hygienic., Dressing well will set you apart from many of your classmates, and you can do it without a suit and expensive clothing. Part of dressing well means finding the style that matches your personality and body type best. You don’t have to wear business attire to look good, but you probably won’t impress anyone wearing sweats either. Try your best to always wear clean clothes that are free of stains. Wear clothes of the appropriate size. Ultimately, you do want to be comfortable because it will show if your clothes are bothering you.People often judge by how others are dressed no matter what, so it is likely your attire is something people will notice. Using that to your advantage to make a statement will help get you noticed in the right way.
You can express your personality through what you wear. For example, you might wear apparel depicting a sports team or band that you like. If you are outgoing and a little crazy, you can wear clothes with a lot of bold colors. If you are more conservative, you can express this by wearing dress pants and a button shirt.
 People notice how you carry your body, so learning to maintain straight posture will show people your confidence. Since you spend much of your time with classmates in class, you will be sitting a lot. Learn to sit up straight and to not slouch down in your chair. Don’t cross your arms because it tends to express negative emotions.Keeping your head up and faced forward shows that you are attentive to what the teacher is saying. Nodding is also a good way to show you are listening.
Consider keeping your legs firmly planted in a fairly wide position, rather than close together or with your legs crossed. This is seen as a more powerful position.
When talking with a classmate, eye contact is a great way to show that you are engaged with what they are saying. Avoiding eye contact is usually seen as a way of trying to hide something.
 This applies to sitting in class but also times when you are standing around with friends. Fidgeting tends to be a sign of stress, nervousness, or an overall lack of confidence, so when people see you doing it, they will notice you in a negative way. Fidgeting can include shifting in your seat a lot, tapping your pencil on the desk, or moving a lot when you talk. None of these things are necessarily bad, but they give an appearance of you not being at ease which can turn people off.If you tend to be constantly moving, you will need to actively tell yourself to calm your body down. This will take work, but once you are conscious of it, you can master it.
 This is such a simple thing, but it works wonders for your overall appearance. Smiling makes you seem more confident, gives the look of being positive, and makes you seem friendly, all of which are things you want your classmate to see if they are going to be impressed with you. Even so, you don’t want to go around smiling all the time as this will most likely put people off. Just be willing to flash a smile on occasion, especially toward the person you want to impress.