 Sometimes excess gas can be caused by swallowing too much air. This can happen when you eat too fast or may be done unconsciously. Unconscious swallowing of air (aerophagia) is often associated with emotional stress and stress reduction techniques may prove beneficial.Eat slower. Rapid ingestion of food can lead to swallowing air, which can increase gas production. Focus on eating slower, perhaps by chewing food a certain number of times before swallowing. Not only will this reduce the amount of air swallowed during eating, but eating slower has been associated with decreased calorie intake. Stop chewing gum and smoking, both of which can increase the amount of air that is unconsciously swallowed.
 Every body is different and you may find that your body is more sensitive to some foods than others. Keeping a record of what you ate and your symptoms may help you identify different foods that may be causing increased gas production.


Once you have identified which foods cause you problems, start eliminating them from your diet one at a time. You can also try eliminating all the foods that may cause gas, then slowly reintroduce them into your diet., Some foods are more apt to cause gas than others. This may be due to the body’s inability to properly digest certain foods, such as those containing short chain carbohydrates, called FODMAPs (fermentable oligo-, di-, and monosaccharides and polyols).Additionally, starch and soluble fiber can contribute to increased gas.Below is a list of foods to avoid to reduce gas:


Beans
Fruit
Legumes, oat bran
Potatoes
Corn
Pasta
Broccoli
Brussels sprouts
Cauliflower
Lettuce
Dairy
Carbonated beverages (soda and beer)
Sugar alcohols (sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol)

, Some individuals are incapable of digesting certain foods, which can lead to increased gas production. A medical professional can help you determine if you have a food intolerance and help you plan a well-balanced diet that accommodates your dietary restrictions.


Lactose intolerance is a common occurrence and results from a deficiency in the lactose-digesting enzyme, lactase. To determine if you are lactose-intolerant, follow these guidelines. Some individuals with lactose intolerance find it helpful to take lactase supplements, such as Lactaid, when eating dairy products. Supplementation with lactase should help your body digest lactose and reduce gas.
Other carbohydrate malabsorption conditions can result in increased gas production.For example, if you frequently experience increased gas after eating foods containing high fructose corn syrup, you may have fructose malabsorption.Keeping a journal, as mentioned above, will help you to identify which foods result in increased gas production.
 Rarely, increased gas may be a sign of a more serious medical problem. Increased intestinal gas can be a sign of celiac disease (gluten intolerance),irritable bowel syndrome,or a bacterial infection. Consult your doctor if you experience any of the following symptoms:


Diarrhea
Changes in the color or frequency of stools
Bloody stools
Severe abdominal pain
Unexplained weight loss

