 Before you begin, you should have all your materials ready. You should have all your regular makeup and eyeshadow supplies. In addition to this, you'll need some supplies specifically used for foil eyeshadow.You will need pigmented eyeshadow in a color of your choice.
You will need a medium for mixing the eyeshadow. You can use primer water or a makeup spray specifically designed for misting foil eyeshadow.
You need to find a flat surface to work on.
You will need two eyeshadow brushes. Make sure at least one is flat and stiff.;
, Open your makeup pigment. Shake out as much pigment as you think you will use into the lid. Remember, you can always add more later if you want another layer. Shake out a few drops of your mixing medium., Take your makeup brush and stir the pigment. You want to get the pigment to the consistency of paint. If necessary, add more of your mixing agent or pigment to get the right texture., Foil makeup always goes over your regular look. Before applying the foil makeup, apply your eye makeup as you normally would. However, you may not need to apply as much eyeshadow as you normally would. Most of your lid will be covered by the foil.Foil eyeshadow can also be added at the end of the day, before you go out. You can simply apply a layer of foil eyeshadow over your regular everyday look. This can add some flare to your makeup for a night out., Use the flat, stiff eyeshadow brush here. Dab it in the foil pigment. You want your brush to be damp, but not soaking wet. After wetting the brush, tap it a few times on the edge of the lid to shake off any loose bits of pigment., Start at the very center of the eyelid. You apply foil shadow using light, dabbing motions. Move from one end of the eye to the other, gently dabbing on the makeup.Be very delicate with your dabbing. You don't want to smear the foil makeup. It may take awhile to get all the makeup on neatly.
 You may only want a light dusting of foil makeup, in which case one or two layers will be enough. However, if you want something more dramatic, do three or four layers. Keep repeating the process of filling your brush and gently dabbing on the makeup until your makeup is as dramatic as you want it.If you want a very dramatic look, you may need to make more foil pigment at one point. Repeat the same process you used the first time to get more pigment for your eyes.
 Take a clean eyeshadow brush. Gently dust the outline of the foil makeup so it blends naturally into your existing eyeshadow. If you want to add in any additional colors of eye shadow, you can do so at this point.Make sure to wait until your foil makeup has dried completely to blend out the makeup.
 A brush usually applies makeup the neatest, and fingers are not generally recommended. However, foil makeup can sometimes dry while on a brush as the fibers absorb it. If your makeup is drying on the brush while you're attempting to apply it, simply apply it with your fingers.Many people find their ring fingers work best for applying foil eyeshadow.
 Never place other colors over foils. You can add additional colors surrounding the foils after applying the foil shadow, but anything applied over foil eyeshadow will not show up well. Foil is meant to be applied over existing eyeshadow and makeup., Foil eyeshadow is usually used as part of a more dramatic look. Therefore, thicker is generally better. Keep applying layers until your full lid is covered. If your eyelid is exposed, your eyeshadow will look patchy., When applying something as dramatic as foil eyeshadow, you do not need a lot of heavy makeup. Use a light layer of foundation, concealer, lipstick, and other makeup products. By sticking a more natural look elsewhere, you won't take any attention away from your dramatic eyes.