 For example, you can file a complaint with the Attorney General if your health claim was denied by your health insurance and you suspect the outcome was unjust. You can also report business related claims to the Attorney General, as well as claims of fraud, deception or unfair business practices., You can find the homepage for the Attorney General at www.ag.nv.gov. From there, select the tab for “Complaints” at the top of the screen. This will redirect you to a screen with several options for complaint forms, available in both English and Spanish., For most complaints regarding businesses, alleged criminal activity, fraud, medicaid issues or almost anything else, you will use the General Complaint form. You may select it in five different options:Type and Print. You may use this selection to fill in the form on your computer screen, and then print the final product.
Print and Handwrite. This selection will allow you to print a blank copy of the form and then complete it on paper. You must use dark ink and write legibly.
Type and Print, in Spanish.
Print and Handwrite, in Spanish.
Electronically Submit. This is the same form, but you are asked to read and affirm certain notices regarding an online electronic “signature.”

, Either mail or take your complaint form to the corresponding address listed on your particular form. If you selected the electronic submission, you will submit the form automatically when you complete it. The Attorney General's office will then investigate your case and contact you for more information if necessary.
 Call the Nevada Attorney General office in your region if you do not have Internet access or prefer not to submit your form electronically.


Consumers located near Las Vegas can call 702-486-3420.
Consumers located near Reno can call 775-688-1818.
Consumers located near Carson City can call 775-684-1100.
 In addition to the Attorney General's office, which will accept complaints on a wide range of topics, you may also wish to file complaints with the following agencies about specific issues:


Better Business Bureau, about consumer complaints or business related matters
Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles, regarding auto dealers, mechanics or other problems related to motor vehicle sales, operation, and maintenance
Nevada Real Estate Division, for concerns with real estate brokers or agents

