 Typically, after the service, mourners may line up to express their condolences to close family and friends of the deceased. When it’s your turn, keep it simple and straightforward. Go for something like “I am so sorry for your loss.”If you are attending a wake or viewing, you will typically greet and console the person's family before viewing the body.
 In an attempt to comfort the bereaved, some people communicate phrases like “Everything happens for a reason” or “God makes no mistakes.” Even if they are well-intended, such platitudes may offend close family, especially if they do not share the same religious or spiritual beliefs.Avoid phrases that minimize the person's experience, like "I know how you feel." Even if you have lost someone, too, this day is not about your own loss. Focus on the person who has died only instead of comparing their death to someone else's.
If you know the person is religious, it may be appropriate to communicate sincere words, like "I am praying for you and your family."

, If you want to say more, it can be thoughtful to communicate a fond memory you have of the bereaved. This reminds them of the good times the person had, or of their kindness or compassion.For example, you might say, “Ms. Henry, I am truly sorry for your loss. Mr. Henry was such a caring man. I’ll never forget that time he pulled over in the rain to help me with a flat tire. He was one of a kind.”

, You can show your sympathy in a practical way by offering to help the family. When people are grieving, basic chores like cooking, cleaning, or picking up groceries may be left undone. Offer to come by the family home and help out as needed, if you are close to the family.Make your intentions to help clear, such as saying, "I'll come by on Tuesday to help with cleaning or cooking."
In addition, you might drop off prepared foods like casseroles or sandwiches to ensure the family has food to eat.
Oftentimes, everyone is supportive of mourners immediately after the death, but this support fades as time goes on. For this reason, stay in touch with the family and continue to help out in the weeks after the funeral.
 After you have expressed your condolences, said something kind about the deceased, and offered to help, move along. Everyone is hoping to talk to the family, so don’t hold them up for too long.


You may leave your number with someone and suggest that they call you later if they’d like to talk more.
 If you are unable to attend the memorial service, it is appropriate to send a thoughtful card or note in your absence. Choose a card that offers your condolences and then add a brief message telling the family that you will come by for a visit soon.


You might write a simple message on your card, such as "I am thinking of you and your family during your time of grief."
You might have your card mailed to the site of the memorial (with flowers) or you might send it to the person's family home, if you are close to the family.

