 The first approval rating is +5, and all subsequent gifts will go down by one point until you only gain +1 for a gift.


If you give a character a gift specific to their interests or to a story they tell you, you will get +10 for the first gift. Every subsequent gift will go down a point. For example, if the first gift you give Allister is Duncan’s Shield, his approval will be +10. If the next gift is his mother’s amulet, his approval will be +9.
However, if you give him a generic gift first, when you give Allister Duncan’s Shield, the approval will be +9. Then, if you give him another generic gift, the approval rating will be +3. By the time you give Allister the amulet, the approval will only be +7.
If a character has 100% approval rating, gifts will have no effect.;
, If a party member has negative feelings toward you, the approval rating from gifts will be halved.
 The best way to learn what gifts go with which party member is to spend time talking to each of them.


For example, one of the stories Morrigan tells is of her stealing a mirror and how Flemeth smashed it. Over the course of the game, you will find a Golden Mirror that you can give to Morrigan as one of her special gifts. This is also a plot gift, so it will trigger a cutscene allowing to you can see that Morrigan is really touched by the gift.
 Other gifts are less special, but still very much appreciated. Like the sweets Dog finds can be given to Sten for higher approval points, or the Etched Silver Symbol for Leliana.


Sten loves sweets, which you find out through conversation and one particular cut scene if he is in your party when you are preparing to cross over to the Tower.
Leliana also talks about pretty things that she likes in several of the conversations you have with her. All of Oghren’s gifts are alcohol-related, different types of brews and ales. The more elegant alcohols, like wine, are special gifts for other party members.
 If the character is not in your current party, you can change your party to include the character.


You can also give gifts to your party in camp. This is particularly helpful when you give a plot gift because they trigger a cutscene, and you don’t want to be in the middle of a battle when that happens.
 Depending on the console you’re using, the buttons will vary:


LT for Xbox360
L2 for PS3
Esc key on a PC

, It is the topmost icon that looks like a treasure chest on the radial menu. This will open the equipment screen, and the Warden (your character) will appear.
 Every time you scroll over, another character will fill the left side of the screen, and their name will appear over their image. Stop when you see the party member you want to give a present to.
, Watch the space under the character for a +. This tells you how many points you have earned with that character by giving the gift. The party member will also thank you for the gift in his own way.
