 Whether it’s a summer theme story of 2015 or a collage of your special event that you went to, you must have an end goal.
,, This icon will open your personal library on your device. Flipagram may ask for permission to access photos from your library. (The app can also access photo banks from other social media accounts.)

, You will notice, once a photo is selected, a red check mark will appear over it!

,,,,,,, This will allow you to adjust the speed of the story itself. The video length displays the total seconds of the story over the number of seconds per photo. the toggle bar with a picture of tortoise and a rabbit can be used to manually adjust the speed from 3 seconds per picture down to 0.10 seconds per picture. For convenience, you can select either the “Flipagram” icon or the “Instagram” icon for predetermined video lengths. The former doesn’t exceed 30 seconds and the latter only goes up to 15 seconds. Once the proper speed has been set, click on the done icon and go back to the preview page.
 From here, there is a number of tools that allows you rotate an image, insert a text box onto the image, and duplicate/delete an image. An arrow bar in the middle of the screen allows you to jump from picture to picture accordingly. When editing a video clip, the clip can be muted, and individual frames can be cut out to fit the user’s need. When using the font button, the color and font style can be adjust at the bottom left of the screen. To add font, double click on the text box and a text screen will pop up. Once done, click done at the top right and return to the page. You can also select the option to show a watermark and enter it into the presentation., Note that Instagram posts typically view best when set to square presentation.
, If you have any changes that need to be made, follow the above steps to adjust accordingly., This will take you to the caption page, where you can add a caption to describe your video. Add your desired caption and click NEXT.
 If you did not sign in, you can directly share with any of the offered social networking applications on your menu. In our case, we will choose to share to Instagram and our story will then be posted there, while also saving a copy onto our device under the “Flipagram” folder within our gallery.

