 Respect yourself and you will still stand out — but in a much more flattering way.;
, If you try to act really wise by talking about serious subjects, a guy will notice if you actually don't know anything about it, and you'll look fake and wanna-be. However, really knowing something by reading the paper or watching the news can help your mature and intelligent image. Boys are more about the looks, older guys also appreciate a little wisdom!

, Greet people you know when you see them, including adults and authority figures (parents, teachers, etc.). You'd be surprised about how good you will feel afterwards.
 People love to see smiling faces. The sense of happiness is key.
 Focus on the good things in your life. Strive to make each day positive.
 This adaptability will be seen as a positive asset.
 Do not act dumb, no matter how cute and attractive you think it is. No matter what or whom you are attracted to, don't hide your intellect for a certain guy's attentions.
 This should go without saying for a positive image, but still... Just do it.
 Guys like creativity and honesty. That is all shown when you're being yourself.
 Smoking, drinking, drug use, stealing, profanity - those are all turnoffs. Drinking a lot even when at the appropriate age limit still can show insecurity and immaturity.
 Be able to manage your time for yourself, but allow for some flexibility to spend time with others.
 Stay true to your opinions and values, but also be respectful of the opinions of others. (If a guy doesn't respect a woman who is not a pushover, then he isn't very nice now, is he? At the same time, if a guy wants to do nice things for you, don't automatically assume that letting him help you will automatically undermine your independence.)

, Just because a guy is making a sexual move on you, doesn't mean he thinks you're easy or immediately wants sex with you. Most often when a guy starts making more serious moves, he is just trying to figure out how far you'll let him go. With respectable guys, all you have to say is no, and they are more than happy to abide by that. But they don't know how far they can go — or how far you want them to go — so they test to see. A guy can be more contented with a girl who knows her boundaries than with a girl who just isn't sure or needs more time to think about the situation. Just tell him that whatever he's going for will come with time, and he should respect that. (If not, forget him and move on. There are other guys out there who will respect that.)

, A little self-deprecating honesty is refreshing, but if you think those things are wrong with you and your body, he'll eventually start to agree. Be honest, but don't put yourself down in doing so.
 It means that they want to be around someone who has a "glow" or unique charm about her.

