 Sleep deprivation will make you feel foggy, out of it, and irritable.Therefore, getting enough sleep will help you feel younger. Also, not getting enough sleep can leave you looking dragged-down, so getting your rest will also help you look younger.

You should try to get seven to nine hours of sleep every night., Use a relaxation technique to help you take a mental break from the world around you and reduce the physical toll that stress takes on the body.For instance, you could try deep breathing, yoga, meditation, art or music therapy, or tai chi.


One way to relax through breathing is to try the 4-7-8 method. That is, breathe in for four counts. Hold your breath for seven counts, and then blow out for eight counts. Focus on your breathing as you repeat it over and over until you relax. Make sure to breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth., New hobbies will challenge your mind, keeping you engaged in the world. In addition, you may meet people through your hobbies.Keeping yourself interested in the world will keep you happier, and as was noted, happier people look younger.
You can try anything from cooking to woodworking to volunteering at your local soup kitchen. You could even try a sport.Try your local parks and rec department for opportunities available in your area.
 Friends and family will provide you with support, distraction, advice, and help when you need it.Staying involved with friends and family will be a source of emotional fulfillment and keep you happier and engaged.


Try using social media to stay in touch with friends and family who are far away.
If you are not close with your family or don't have family but would like to talk to someone, try calling a Warm Line, which is a peer-run non-crisis hotline.You don't need to be in crisis to call — anyone who wants to talk is welcome to call this toll-free service.You can meed people by going to religious services, meetups, classes, and community events.
 Some studies have shown that drinking coffee can reduce your risk of developing dementia. So go ahead and have a cup or three a day.