 Rock kids love black clothing too, but goths tend to favor black for everything.


If you want to achieve a rock look, wear plenty of black t-shirts and black jeans. You can mix it up with other dark colors.
A black leather jacket is perfect for both styles.Goth fashions are primarily all in black and focus on lots of different textures and fabrics.
A few examples of some of the more exotic materials favored by goths: crushed velvet, fishnet, silk and leather.;
, Band t-shirts are a great way to communicate that you’re part of the goth or rock subcultures, especially if you’re new and unsure where to start with some of the other fashion elements. There are many bands out there making goth and rock music, so it can be hard to know which shirts to choose. However, you can’t go wrong with the classics.


Start by getting t-shirts featuring classic goth bands like The Cure, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Bauhaus, Joy Division, The Damned, Sisters of Mercy and Depeche Mode.For a more rock vibe, wear t-shirts featuring classic rock bands like Pink Floyd, Black Sabbath, David Bowie, The Doors, The Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin and Johnny Cash., All genders experiment with eyeliner and nail polish in these subcultures.For a more rock-oriented look, experiment with dark nail polish. Give smoky black eyeliner/eyeshadow a try, if it suits your personal rock style.
In gothic fashions, black eyeliner and dark nail polish are staples. Experiment with a few different looks, like a heavy kohl/smoky eye, winged eyeliner, and mixing it up by adding some red eyeliner in there.
Goth lipstick colors are usually black or a deep red. Goths tend to accentuate their pale complexions with white powders and foundations., Hairstyles vary wildly among both crowds, but there is a tendency toward the dramatic, especially in goth culture. Among the rock crowd, the style is usually more important than color. Gothic fashion tends to emphasize dramatic hair color, with less importance placed on particular styles.


To achieve a rock hairstyle, sport a long fringe in the front, allowing it to fall over one (or both) eyes.
Backcombing and asymmetrical shapes are popular looks, and dyed black hair is common, sometimes with a bright red or bleached blonde streak.For a goth look, black, deep red, purple and green hair colors have always been and still are fashionable.As for goth hairstyles, there is a huge variety. Most goth ‘dos tend to be backcombed, teased and feature sections of razor-cut layers.
Styles can range from dramatic mohawks, dyed dreadlocks, chin-length bobs, long straight hair, pixie cuts, pompadours, variations on the mullet, and beyond.
 Both crowds love their accessories, with the goths generally choosing the move over-the-top items.Other options are chokers, silver jewelry featuring skulls, ankhs, and crosses, corsets, and anything made of leather or velvet that features spikes, chains, or studs.Opera length gloves made of satin or latex are also popular among the goth crowd.Black trenchcoats and velvet jackets are also trendy among goths.
 Tattoo designs vary wildly but the darker the imagery, the better, especially for goths. Skulls, snakes, pentagrams and other occult symbols are popular tattoo designs.


The most popular piercings are nose and tongue piercings (along with many ear piercings, often all the way around the cuff of the ear).
Neither the goth nor the rock subcultures wear as many piercings and tattoos as the punk crowd., A wide variety of black boot styles are popular with both crowds. The rock crowd tends to favor combat boots and Doc Martens, while the goth kids favor a combat boot style with lots of buckles and zippers.


Goths also like pointy-toed black boots and all genders enjoy wearing platforms/heels occasionally.