 The gold holograms on many ID cards are called binary holograms. These holograms can be easily reproduced using Pearl-Ex paint and Photo-EZ paper., This product is for making stencils. A stencil is basically the outline of a picture with the negative part missing.

Scan the hologram off your ID, then convert it to an all-black image.
Print the image on a transparency. A transparency is a transparent sheet of plastic meant for inkjet printers or lasers.
Take the transparency and tape it to the Photo-EZ.
Put it out in the sun and all the areas of the material not covered by the black negative of the holo will cure. When washed, the part covered by the negative washes away, leaving you with your stencil. You will want to order the high resolution material.
Paint the hologram. As for the painting material, the two main ones are Interference Gold (Fine) made by Golden Acrylics and Perl-Ex Duotone. The latter of the materials work best because it reflects two colors of the spectrum.
Perl-Ex comes as a powder and preparation is needed.
These paints are transparent when viewed from straight on. When viewed from different angles you see different colors depending on the particular colors of the paint.
Perl-Ex comes in Duo Red-Blue, Duo Blue-Green, and Duo Green-Yellow.
You have to buy a Transparent Base made for paints to prepare the Perl-Ex. A good one is Speedball Transparent Base. You mix in a 1:50 ratio: one part per-50 parts base. If you are using Golden acrylics then you use a 5:1 ratio: five parts paint to one part base.
When applying the paint in the stencil, you should use, if possible, one of those brushes made for screen printing. It looks like a pencil but has a flexible tip. A sponge can be used but extra care needs to be taken when applying. You want to apply a very thin amount, and practice will be needed to get it right.
 On a lot of the new IDs there is a multicolored hologram that reflects the full spectrum (like a rainbow). This is especially true of most of the Canadian IDs.

Pick the two most dominant colors and buy the matching Perl-Ex colors. This will be good enough to reproduce the holo.
The holo can be put directly on the finished ID or before lamination on the inside of the pouch. If you choice is the inside, then remember to put it in the reverse.

