 You need to take a nice long shower so that you smell good. Scrub the especially sweaty areas such as between the legs, and under your arms. Wash your hair with both shampoo, and conditioner. You want your hair smooth and soft when your potential partner goes to touch it. Always apply deodorant every morning before you put on your clothes.Consistently brush your teeth. You do not want your breath smelling bad when you go to ask someone out for Valentine's day. Flossing and using mouthwash is also a bonus.
Make your you brush or comb your hair. You want to get the knots out, and rid your hair of frizziness.;
, This is probably the most critical aspect of how you appear. The goal is to show your partner that you care about yourself, and them, to maintain how you look. For men, you need to trim your facial, chest, and pubic hair. If you want to leave some hair that is fine, but trim it back, especially the wild hairs. For women, shave underarm and leg hair, and trim/shave/wax pubic hair. Once more, it is not necessary to get rid of it all, but try to get most of it.After you have shaved or trimmed your hair, use lotion on your skin. Use one which explicitly is designed to hydrate your skin. Rub it on your legs, your arms, and hands. You want your skin soft and smooth when your partner goes to touch it.
 This is mostly for people who plan well in advance of Valentine's Day. While some people do not need to go to the gym, others might want to in order to improve their physique. Work with weights, or run on the treadmill. The goal is not to look like a bodybuilder, but to build some tone, and perhaps lose a few pounds.Not only will going to the gym make you more physically fit, but it will also give you a newfound confidence when you ask your potential date out for Valentine's Day.
Set a goal a few months ahead of time. For example, you might want to lose ten pounds and sharpen the tone around your stomach. Create a daily or weekly schedule that meets your individual needs.
You can also work on changing your diet. Eating fruits and vegetables instead of snacks and junk food can help you quickly lose weight as well.
 For men this means applying cologne, or aftershave. For women this means applying perfume. The goal is to attract your partner using pheromones. Apply your fragrance onto "pulse points." These "points" are where blood vessels are close to the skin, thereby giving off heat, and spreading the smell better.The key "pulse points" include: behind knees, ankles, around belly button, underneath your armpits, around your neckline, and on your wrists.
Only choose one or two, and only use a couple of sprays at most. The less the better. The smell of the fragrance will spread out over time.
 This does not mean wearing a suit to school, but it does mean getting those wrinkles out of your clothes, and wearing attire that is flattering to your significant other. Spend time in the morning picking out outfits which match, and showcase your assets. There is no reason to deviate too much from your typical wardrobe, but take extra care when picking out an outfit and it will show.For girls, maybe wear a nice dress. Showing off skin is always an easy way to attract guys. Using the color red to your advantage is also important, as studies have shown that red is rather seductive.
For guys, wear clothes which fit tighter around the body. Show a little chest by unbuttoning the top few buttons of your shirt. Wearing clean shoes is also a plus, rather than ones trampled in mud and dirt.
For both guys and girls, make sure that your clothes are ironed, and don't have any holes in them. Also, make sure that they have been recently washed, so that they have a fresh, clean smell.
 For girls, this might mean talking football with your guy. For guys, this might mean talking about a recent book she has read. Whatever it may be, find what your partner is interested in, and talk about it. This will show your potential date that you care about what interests them.Ask some of their friends what they are into. This way you can study up before you begin to talk to them. For example, if your guy likes the Carolina Panthers football team, read about whether they have been playing good or bad, what what players they have on the team.
If you hear from your girl's friends that she is into Twilight, it wouldn't hurt to at least pick up the first book and read it. This way you can bring it up casually in conversation, and she will know that you are interested in her interests.
Never go overboard. Some people just don't match. If someone has totally different interests than you, you should probably look for someone a bit more familiar.
 This is the key to asking your potential partner out on a date. While being shy can be cute, most of the time you will want to exude confidence. Stand up straight, and speak clearly. Look your partner square in the eyes as you ask them "Will you be my Valentine?" or "Would you like to go out on Valentine's Day?"When you ask your date to go out, make sure they are not in a group. With other people around, you can lose confidence. There is also social pressure on the person to say either yes or no, depending on the circumstance. You want to make sure that it is only you two engaging with one another.
Do not force your partner into panicked positions. For instance, it is not good to pull your potential date aside as they are running to class. Wait until after school, or well before school starts. If you are out of school, don't bother them while they are in the middle of their job.
 You can throw a single's party so that you can find a potential match. This takes the couples out of the equation. Get a group of friends to come over for hors d'oeuvres and drinks. You can also invite people where you work to come over as well. Keep it light by getting people up and talking.Focus your singles night around a central event. Super Bowl weekend is usually a few days before. This is a great reason to bring people together.Talk with some people, and get their phone numbers. Pick out one which you made a real connection with. If you really hit it off with someone, you can ask them right then and there to go out for Valentine's Day.
 These are often used for asking dates out to Prom, but they can work for Valentine's Day as well. Buy some glass-friendly markers to write on your potential date's back windshield "Will you be my Valentine? --(insert name)" Send your date "anonymous flowers," asking them out for Valentine's Day on the attached card. The list can go on and on forever, as far as your imagination takes it.


The goal is to create a cute, and fun way to ask them out. Knowing that you put in a lot of effort to do so will also entice your partner to say yes.
Another interesting idea is to create a chain text message. One friend will text your date "Will." Another friend will text your date "you." The next friend will text your date "be." Your last friend will text your date "my." Then you will text your date "Valentine?" Do these about 20 seconds apart from one another. Make sure that they are texted in the correct order.
Ask to use the intercom at either your school or place of business. Pretend to give the daily announcements and ask her out over the intercom. Make sure she is present at either the school or business.
 About a month before the holiday, pharmacies and grocery stores will begin selling Valentine's Day candy, flowers, plush animals, etc. Whether you are a guy or a girl, it is great to both give and receive these items. They show, through monetary value, that you care about the other person. They aren't the key to your partner's heart, but they are a great added bonus.You can give your partner these items either on Valentine's Day, or when you ask them out.
Make sure you get the items early, as the store could sell out when Valentine's Day approaches. However, order flowers so that they deliver a day before the holiday.
 This is the classic Valentine's Day date. Usually a quieter place works best, like an italian restaurant, rather than a sports bar or club. If you are the man, hold the door open for her, and pull out the chair for your her before they sit down.Another thing to avoid, especially on a first date, is the movie theater. Going to the movies is great for established couples, but in the beginning of a relationship you need time to get to know one another. Movies separate your eyes, and dim the conversation, when you want and need the opposite.
Make sure to hold your partner's hand at some point during the date. You can grab their hand during the middle of dinner, or in the car as you are driving back home.
 This is a great option if you think that there is a high chance of intimacy. Cook a nice dinner from scratch which your date will certainly appreciate. Decorate the dining room with rose pedals, and place some roses in a vase on the dinner table. You can even have some romantic music playing in the background.Dim the lights in the dining room. This will create a more solemn and romantic occasion.
Position both chairs ahead of time so that you are either sitting directly across, or next to your date.
If you are thinking that your date will get more intimate as the night goes along, you can drop rose pedals through the hallway and onto your bed. You can also prepare a nice warm bubble bath for your partner.
 You can go to a restaurant, or all go to the movies. This is a great chance to get closer to someone you like, without the intense intimacy of a solo Valentine's Day date. You can sit next to your significant other without feeling that it has to get more serious.Talk with your friends beforehand. Mention to them that you want to get closer to your significant other. This way you can "accidentally" sit next to them in the movie theater, or you can plan ahead and pay for them at the restaurant.
If you are in the movies, you can hold hands if you like. This is an opportunity to make the first move, and then ask your partner out on a more serious date later on.
 If you just can't find someone to go out with, and you don't want to spend Valentine's Day alone, blind dates can be great options. Search online, or in your local newspaper, to find blind date events nearby. These are much more prevalent around the holiday. Decide whether you want to go on a singular blind date, or if you want to participate in speed dating.For singular blind dates, you will want to bring some roses to give your date. Since you have never met the person before, spend time getting to know them at a restaurant. Ask them questions about where they are from, what they like to do for fun, and what are their plans for the future.
Speed dating is mostly an exercise in having fun. Come in with an open mind. These are events focused on getting to know the basics about many people, and getting phone numbers. You might very well meet someone you wish to have a more serious date with later on.
Do not expect intimacy with these types of dates. While sex does occur sometimes, remember that you have never met each other before.
 This is similar to a blind date, except that you get to prescreen your potential dates. You can always post on a social networking site that you are lonely, and looking for a date on Valentine's Day. There are also popular apps such as Tinder and Grindr which can be used to find a potential match.Properly vet each potential Valentine's Day date. If someone is a bit sketchy, or if you feel as if their public profile is false, it is best to find someone else.
Dating apps are best saved as a last resort. People you know in your real life are going to be much easier to get romantically close with.

