 That's right. That's the first step to starting over. You gotta feel what you're feeling. Clamming everything up will just make you explode later. And what's more: admitting this is how it is could fuel you to do something about it. Acknowledging your situation and not liking it is the only way you can do something about it. So go ahead. Whine. You're unsatisfied. That's how living works.


Talk about it. You know how dieters are supposed to have a diet buddy, or at least let the world know what they're going through? That's for support and accountability. It's the same principle here. Even if you just find one person, you'll have a friend to lean on and someone that can keep you on track when you slip. We all need that support.;
, The fact of the matter is that right now you need a break. Sometimes, life just needs to stop. In as much as you can actually do this, grab that Kit Kat and take a short hiatus. Start replenishing your energy bar for the massive endeavor you're about to rock, showing life who's boss.


If you have a job, you may need to take time off work. Not a long time -- nothing to get you fired. Just a day or two to assess and concentrate. Right now is all about you.
 There's a definite hierarchy of needs that all humans have. For most of us, it involves having money at our disposal. In order to have food on the table, you gotta have money in your pocket. You don't need a lot, but in order to move up the hierarchy (and to start thinking about climbing up), you need a stable income.


So to put it succinctly, if you're unemployed, start looking for work. Looking for work should take you 40 hours a week. In today's economy, it may not come easily, but it'll come. Keep your nose to the grindstone and leave no stone unturned, nor opportunity turned down.
 If you haven't finished high school, this is doubly important. In order to get a job, you'll need a GED. All it takes is pulling up a Google search and making a phone call to a local adult education center. Most places can help you work out a payment plan and want to see you on the right track. What's more, where's the harm in just asking?


If you have some college, but haven't graduated, consider going back. Not only will you up your employment options, but you'll feel good about yourself. You'll feel accomplished. After all, rock bottom is just a state of mind. There are plenty of people who others might consider to be on rock bottom that feel on top of the world. Finishing college could change your mindset entirely.
 If you're smoking, drinking, or partaking in other addictive behaviors on a constant basis, it needs to stop now. There is no personal advancement if it does not. In order to see progress, you cannot keep your old tricks. The buck stops here.


Imagine the person you want to be. Does that person have a dependency on anyone or anything else? When it comes to this self project, why settle for anything less than that ideal image? You owe it to you to be the best you can be. If you can't kick this habit, none of the new, better habits will fall into place.
 When you need to change everything about your situation and to completely start over in life you need to make some major adjustments between your ears. You need to think like a new person, act like a new person, dress like a new person, and surround yourself with new people, yes. However, to do this, you need to start thinking positively and with conviction. Put away the "I can't," "what if?", and "maybes." There's no room for those here. This starting over? You're going to do it.


It's highly possible that training your brain to think differently could alleviate this situation entirely. What are you but your thoughts, anyway? While it's impossible to instruct someone on how to specifically do this, know that the rest of this page will make that process a lot easier. Thinking positively and with confidence will make all these steps doable.
 What will you look like. What will you dress like? What will your relationship look like? Where will you live? What car will you be driving? Take a good 15 minutes, close your eyes and really imagine the life you want down to what you feel like in that life. Take a good mental snapshot of your perfect life. You need to believe, without a shadow of a doubt, that this person you envisioned will be you.


You need an end point in order to know just how and where to start your journey. Where do you want to end up? What goals would you like to reach? Write it down. Everybody needs something to work to because none of us is perfect. Now's your chance to pick yours. This is what you'll be aiming for.

