 Greet your special person with a smile, and smile often while you are with her (without faking it). Smiling will not only make you feel happier, but it will make you sound happier and more positive.It will also let her know that you’re happy to see her, and that you’re interested in what she’s saying.;
, Pay attention to what the person has going on in her life, like her hobbies and what she does at work or in school. Take note of people she frequently mentions; these people are probably important to her in one way or another.


Give the person your full attention, don’t play on your phone or computer.
Some common people are siblings, parents, grandparents, and close friends. She may also mention pets, children, or even classmates and colleagues. Try to learn about these people and their relationship with your special friend.
Sometimes it is best to just listen, and not offer solutions. For example: your friend tells you that she’s frustrated with her basketball coach. Say something like, “That does sound really frustrating, I’m sorry you had to go through that.” Avoid saying things like, “I know exactly how that feels”, because chances are you don’t fully understand what she’s going through and it might make her feel bad.
 This is a good time to reach back to things you've learned about your friend. Ask her about a specific person or event she mentioned last time you talked. Asking questions will show that you care about what she does and what she loves. Pay attention and try to remember the details of her stories. The next time you talk, ask her how these things are going. For example:


You remember that she is very close with her brother, and the last time they hung out was over spring break when they went on a family trip to the beach. Ask her how her brother is doing, and if she has seen him lately. Maybe ask her if she's been to the beach lately, or if she has any plans to see her brother again soon.
 Not only will the memory be a warm, fun thought for you and your friend, but it will also show that you are thinking about her and that you value the time you spend together.It could be a memory from childhood, or one from the previous night. Maybe you stayed up all night talking, or you did something crazy like go skydiving. Reminiscing about your time spent together is a great way to show that your time with her is special.
 It doesn’t have to be intimate, but touching has been shown to increase happiness and make people feel more connected.Hug her when you first see her and when you say goodbye, or pat her on the shoulder when you pass by.


Be careful to not overdo it, the limit and amount of touching depends on your relationship with your special person. There should be very different limits if your special person is a significant other versus a friend or family member.

