 Certification signifies that the speech therapist has passed necessary coursework from an accredited program, has passed a national exam, has completed a one year clinical fellowship, and participates in continuing education programs.Look for speech therapists who are associate members of ASHA for even more certification of experience.
 Speech therapists work with both children and adults so it is important to determine what age group the therapist is more comfortable treating. If services are for your child, it is important to look for a therapist that easily interacts with children and makes your child feel comfortable. If services are for an adult, look for a more mature office setting and a professional who is used to working with adults.


When determining if a therapist is a good fit for your child, there are a few questions to ask yourself: Is the therapist really interacting with the child, does your child seem like they are having fun, and does your child show a willingness to trust this person?
If you are seeking a speech therapist for an adult, make sure their interventions align with your particular need. For example, if your speech difficulty was caused by injury, be certain that it is listed as one of the therapist's specialties.
 Not only should you look at how many years of service the speech therapist has, but look specifically at their specialties. How many other patients have they had with the similar condition, what are their treatment plans, and are their interventions research-based?Questions to pose include how much of your caseload is made up of cases like mine/ours, what treatment do you recommend, and what’s the evidence that supports these recommendations?, If you have seen your primary care physician or have a referral from a school professional, you may be able to narrow down your need before seeing the speech therapist. You can search for a therapist based on articulation problems, fluency problems, resonance or voice problems, or oral feeding problems.Knowing a speech therapist’s specialties can help you find the right one for your particular problem.


Articulation problems means the patient doesn’t speak clearly or makes errors in sounds.
Fluency problems include trouble with the flow of speech such as stuttering.
Voice problems include trouble with pitch, volume and quality.
Oral feeding problems are demonstrated by trouble with eating, swallowing, or drooling.
Adults can be treated for many communication problems including articulation, voice, or those brought on by injury or disease (such as traumatic brain injury or Parkinson's disease).