 If you know that you will need to load your cat into a pet carrier in the near future, put the carrier out where the cat can see and explore it. Not only will the cat get used to the carrier, but it might go in on its own to check it out. Give your cat treats for going in the carrier, or leave food and treats inside for your cat to find.Once your cat starts to go inside the pet carrier, close the door for a few minutes. When you open it again, give your cat treats and pets to reward it for getting into the carrier.
When your cat starts entering the carrier on its own, carry your pet around for a few minutes to get them used to it.If you don’t have time to get your cat used to the pet carrier, set the carrier in one of your cat’s favorite spots and put fragrant food like tuna fish inside the pet carrier to make it interesting to the cat.
 You can buy pheromones that have a calming effect on cats. Spray the pheromones on your pet carrier to help lower your cat’s anxiety. You could use the pheromones while you’re getting the cat used to the carrier and on the day you need to travel with the cat., Get your cat to chase the red dot into its pet carrier. Spend a few moments playing with the cat first, allowing it to get focused on catching the dot. The cat will forget about the carrier and run right into it.This works best if your cat enjoys playing with a laser pointer.
You will have more success with a larger crate or a crate with a top opening, as it could be difficult for you to land the dot inside a small case.
 If your cat is still reluctant, then you will need to first wrap it up in a towel. Prepare your carrier by opening the door and placing it on a stable surface near your cat. Follow the instructions for using a towel or a blanket in the method above. Once your cat is wrapped like a burrito, slide the cat into the pet carrier tail first.Try to loosen the towel once the cat is in the carrier, but don’t let it escape because it will be much harder to catch a second time.
If your cat is really upset, close the door of the carrier and allow it to calm down for a moment before loosening the towel.
The cat may be able to get out of the towel without any assistance.
 You cat’s experience inside the carrier will be better if you hold the carrier against your chest than if you swing it at your side. Keeping your kitty happy while it’s in the carrier will make it easier to catch it next time.When you’re carrying the pet carrier, cover it so that your cat can’t see the world flashing by. Remove the cover while the carrier is stationary.

