 Pillboxes can be a great organizational tool that will allow you to keep detailed track of which pills you need to take and when. These pillboxes have multiple compartments which will hold your medications and make it clear when you need to take them and can make it obvious when you've missed any. Many pillboxes will have room for at least a week's worth of medications.
Some pillboxes will have multiple compartments for different times during a single day.
 Not all medications will be able to be stored in a pillbox. These medications will have special storage instructions that you must follow in order to ensure that the medication is kept from expiring or otherwise degrading.Medications that require refrigeration should not be kept in a pill box.
Some medications cannot be exposed to light and may need to be kept in their original container.
 Once you have selected a pillbox that is best suited for your medical needs you can begin to place your medications in that pillbox's compartments. Take your daily dosage of each medication that you take and place it in the appropriately marked container in your pillbox. This will help keep your medications organized and allow you to keep track of which medications you've taken.For example, a medication that is taken on Monday and Tuesday should be placed within the compartments that are label for Monday and Tuesday (Sometimes "Mon" or "Tues" or "M" or "T").
If your pillbox has containers for times of day, place those medications with specific usage times in those containers.
Some pillboxes will allow you to make custom labels for the containers. List the name of the medications you place in the container and the times of day you are to take them on your label.
 As you work through your pillbox, taking medications as scheduled, the pillbox will become empty as the week goes on. This will allow you to see if you have missed any scheduled medications throughout the week or month. However, when the pillbox is emptied, you will need to fill it back up with your next round of medication.Make sure you refill the pillbox accurately in regards to your medication schedule.
If you notice you are running low on a prescription, try to get it refilled as soon as possible.

