 Depending on the personality of your kitten, and how hyper she is at any given moment, you may need to obtain assistance when giving her an injection. If this is your first time giving an injection, you may want someone else to hold your kitten so you can use both hands to administer the injection.Keeping calm during this procedure will also keep your kitten calm. You want to avoid associating stress with injections so your kitten doesn’t fear them in the future.
 Depending on where you obtain the vaccine, it may not come with a syringe and needle. Make sure you have all the equipment you require before you start any attempt at vaccinating your kitten., Some vaccines need to be mixed right before administration in order to activate the ingredients. Use these steps to mix-up the vaccine for your kitten:Attach the needle to the syringe, with the cap still on the needle.
Remove the cap from the needle and insert the needle into the liquid vaccine vial.
Turn the vial upside down and hold the syringe in a vertical position.
Pull back on the plunger and fill the syringe with all of the liquid.
Insert the needle into the second vial and press the plunger to inject the liquid from the first vial. The second vial normally contains a powder or a freeze-dried substance, as opposed to liquid.
Take the needle out of the second vial and shake the vial thoroughly to mix the contents.
Put the needle back into the second vial and pull back on the plunger to fill the syringe.
Press the plunger to push out any excess air that may have accumulated in the syringe.
Put the cap back on the needle until you’re ready to administer the vaccine to your kitten.
 Before you attempt to restrain your kitten, get ready by filling the syringe with the vaccine. Attach the needle to the syringe (if it isn’t already), take off the needle cap, and insert the needle into the vaccine vial. Pull back on the plunger to fill the syringe with the vaccine. Squirt a little back out to ensure there are no air bubbles left in the syringe, then put the cap back on the needle till you’re ready to proceed., You may find it easier to administer the vaccine while your kitten lies or sits in your lap. Alternatively you can place him on a table at a height that allows you to see and access the injection site properly. Use whatever position works best for your kitten and you.Whichever surface you end up using (your lap or a table) put down a towel or blanket first. This may be especially useful if you use your lap in case your kitten tries to scratch or bite you while you’re administering the vaccine.
If you do not think you can restrain your kitten while administering the vaccine, have another person hold him in whatever position works best. This option will keep both of your hands free for the syringe.
 Each vaccine will come with instructions on where it needs to be injected, and how it needs to be injected. If you are unsure of this information, contact your veterinarian for assistance.Combination vaccines, or the main core vaccines, are normally injected on the outside of your kitten’s right front leg, below the elbow joint.
Any vaccines that contain a vaccine for FeLV must be injected into your kitten’s rear left leg on the outside of her body.
Rabies vaccines (which can normally only be administered by a veterinarian) need to be injected on the outside of your kitten’s right rear leg.
 Cat vaccines need to be injected subcutaneously, which means they’re injected right under the skin. To inject in a subcutaneous location, follow these steps:Locate the area where you will need to place the injection.
Locate a spot with some loose skin. Gently pinch a bit of this skin with your thumb and finger and pull it outwards.
Insert the needle into the tented part of the skin. Keep the needle parallel to the skin’s surface. You do not want to angle the needle downwards because you do not want to accidentally push the needle into a muscle, etc.
Pull back on the plunger and check if any blood comes out. If not, you can proceed. If blood does come out, try another spot.
Press the plunger of the syringe to inject the vaccine under the skin.
Use a clean cloth or paper towel to dab any blood that may come out.
 Some vaccines do not come in an injectable format, but rather in a liquid that needs to be dropped into your kitten’s eyes and nose. You will likely need to mix this type of vaccine before being able to administer it. Once the vaccine is mixed, use these steps to administer the vaccine:Place one drop of the vaccine in the corner of each of your kitten’s eyes.
Squirt an equal amount of the remaining vaccine into each of your kitten’s nostrils.

