 Start by including only healthy snacks on your grocery list. Write down healthy options like fresh fruit, vegetables, and nuts. Try not to buy junk food when you go grocery shopping.When you go grocery shopping, avoid the center aisles of the grocery store, as this is often where junk food is stocked. Do not turn down the junk food aisle when you are shopping to avoid temptation.
When you are done grocery shopping, review your cart and remove half of the junk food in your cart. Challenge yourself to buy 50% less junk food every time you go food shopping.;
, Cutting yourself off from junk food cold turkey can be difficult. Instead, try to reduce your junk food intake slowly over time. Start by removing 50% of the junk food you eat from your diet.You can also reduce your daily intake of junk food. For example, if you typically eat one chocolate bar at lunch time and another after dinner, try splitting one chocolate bar and having half with each meal instead.
If you usually eat three small bags of chips per day, try cutting back to just two.
 To make it easier to stay away from junk food, keep healthy snacks on hand at your desk at work or in your bag at school. Pack snacks in resealable baggies so you have something healthy to munch on, rather than going for junk food.For example, you may pack sliced apples and carrots as snacks. Or you may bring hummus and crackers as a crispy snack that is low on fat.
 If you eat out a lot at work or school, reach for the healthy snacks rather than the junk food. Look for fresh fruits or vegetables you can buy as a snack, rather than a bag of chips or candy. Buy packaged nuts or dried fruit, rather than processed snacks.If you know there is not a lot of choice at your work or school when it comes to healthy snacks, plan ahead and pack healthy snacks in your bag so you have them.
 It can be hard to deprive yourself of junk food completely, especially if you are used to eating a lot of it. Allow yourself one day a week where you can eat what you want, such as a small amount of junk food for a snack. This will help you manage your cravings and keep you from feeling deprived.Do not go overboard and stuff yourself with every junk food imaginable, as this can lead to stomach issues. Instead, opt for one or two junk food items on your cheat day.
 Eating out can cause you to indulge in junk food and food that is not healthy. Try to cut back on eating out and cook dinner at home instead. Make dinner with friends or your partner. Create a weekly dinner party tradition where you all sit down for a home-cooked meal.


You can also cut down on eating out at work by bringing your own healthy lunches instead.

