 These things don't make you less of a man. They make you a gentlemen. There are plenty of masculine men who open doors, say thank you and give up their seats for old ladies on the subway. Potential mates will find chivalry surprising- but wholly charming and attractive and all people appreciate politeness and courtesy.
 Show it! People prize confidence highly, and everyone has some, even if you don't feel it all the time. Know your strengths as well as your weaknesses. Be proud of your strengths and in knowing that your weaknesses do not detract from your self worth. Show your self-assurance in the way you walk and with good posture. Keep your head up and your eyes forward looking ahead, or making eye contact with the person you're talking to instead of at the ground.
 Confidence is a very good thing. But when your self-worth gets out of hand, it can turn into cockiness and that is not good. Keep a balance grounded. Don't show off too much or seem over-confident. People can tell the difference. It makes you look like a jerk, and nobody likes a jerk.
 All emotions are perfectly fine and normal to have and display. Crying, being sad, hurt or happy is okay. The key is timing and compatibility, not the emotions themselves. It is perfectly acceptable to cry or be emotional around a lover. Usually, if you are open about your feelings with someone you care about, they will do the same. That leads to a deeper and more meaningful relationship. But don't turn into an overly-emotional fruitcake.
 Be who you really are inside. Things you believe, your morals, feelings and interests should never change for anyone but you. It will do you no good to meet and deal with other people behind pretenses. If you can't be 100% you 100% of the time, that's okay (in fact, it's normal). But when appropriate, express yourself and talk about things you enjoy. You can connect more genuinely with people by being you, and they will like you for who you really are- consequently you will be able to do more things you enjoy with like-minded people.

