 Use a tape measure to determine the length and width of your table, or the diameter if you have a round table. Write down the measurements so you can take them with you when you shop for linens.


Measure the height of your table as well. If you are setting your table for a buffet, you will want the tablecloth to drop to the floor. If you are setting your table for a sit-down dinner, the cloth should drop 8 to 18 inches (20.32 to 45.72 cm) from the table.;
, The formality of your table linens will depend on whether you are planning a special event, or if your table linens are for every day. For formal occasions, the napkins and other linens should always match the tablecloth. For an informal table, you can feel free to mix and match several colors or different patterns.
 Decide if you are looking only for a tablecloth, or whether you want to include linen napkins, place mats, and even chair covers. If you are planning a wedding or a formal party, you may want to use everything. If you are setting a table for an informal family dinner, a simple tablecloth or a few place mats may be enough.


Select napkins based on your event. Dinner napkins are traditionally 24 inches square (61 cm), and lunch napkins are 20 inches square (50 cm). Cocktail napkins can also be used, and they are 6 inches square (15.24 cm).
 Matching your table linens to the décor of the room keeps everything tasteful and flowing. Get a paint sample from your walls, or swatches from your furniture so you can match the colors and patterns appropriately while you shop.
 Linens can be heavy and traditional, in fabrics such as damask, or in more durable cotton and polyester blends. For special events, you can also find them in satin, organza, and taffeta.
 The best way to choose table linens is to take a look at several different varieties. Grab your paint samples and swatches and start comparing different brands, fabrics, and colors. Talk to designers and sales associates about the event you are planning or the type of home you have, and get some expert help on selecting the best linen for your table.

