 Making some simple snacks available and letting your child pick their favorites can be a good way to engage their interest. Allowing them to control some toppings or extras can keep snacks healthy and allow your child to feel involved in their nutrition.Offer two to three snack options and allow your child to pick.
Offer a few basic options like carrot sticks, broccoli, or fruits.
Provide some healthy dips like yogurt or hummus.
Ask your child, "Would you like carrots and hummus or an apple and yogurt?" Then allow them to choose between the two.;
, Helping your child engage with their food will require you to keep snack time focused and free of distraction. If your child is watching television or listening to music they may not be interested in or focusing on their food. Try to keep snack times focused on eating and talking about the snack to help your child have a good connection to the healthy food being offered.Continue to use a high chair for your younger children, as this will keep them focused and in one spot.
Make sure the television is turned off during snack time.
Try to ask your child questions about their food. Have them describe qualities of the food rather than if they like it or not.
 Making something special to meet these wishes can send the wrong message to your child. “Picky eating” habits might start to occur if your child thinks they can reject and demand whichever foods or snacks they want. Allow your child to eat only the snacks that you are offering..If you are concerned about your child not eating enough or getting proper nutrition, talk with their pediatrician to learn more.
 If you tend to criticize your child's eating habits or try to force them to eat something they don't like, snack time can become something they dread. Instead, try to make snacks that they enjoy. If your child finds snack time enjoyable they will be more likely to eat and try new healthy foods that you introduce.Be supportive and encouraging as your child tries new foods.
Try offering additional food items such as hummus, mashed avocado with lime juice, yogurt, peanut butter or other nut butters for your child to dip their food.
You might try using a cookie cutter to make your snacks into fun and amusing shapes.
Arranging vegetables on a plate to make silly faces can make snack time more fun.

