 Children who are constipated may try to not have bowel movements if doing so causes pain. They may tighten their buttocks and contort their bodies in an effort to prevent having a bowel movement. Your child may be constipated if he or she:Has difficulty passing stool
Passes hard, dry stool with or without blood on it
Passes stool less than three times per week
Has pain while passing stool
Is nauseous
Has abdominal pain
Passes small amounts of liquid or clay-like stool. You may find this also in the child’s underwear.;
, Children in certain situations may be more likely to become constipated. These include:Not engaging in regular physical activity
Eating a low fiber diet
Frequent dehydration
Taking medications that increase the risk of constipation, such as some antidepressants
Having a medical problem with the anus or rectum
Having family members are also prone to constipation
Having neurological problems, such as cerebral palsy
Having emotional issues or new causes of stress
Having an underactive thyroid or other metabolic problem

, Most of the time, constipation does not develop complications or indicate a more serious problem. Signs of complications and serious problems include:Fever
Vomiting
Bloody stools
A distended abdomen
Weight loss
Areas where the skin around the anus has ripped open
A rectal prolapse, in which the intestines are coming out of the anus
Frequent or painful urination, which can be a sign of a urinary tract infection. This is common in children with constipation.
Poor appetite.
Severe or constant abdominal pain.
 This will help soften the stool and make it easier to pass. Water and juices are excellent for this purpose.Milk may cause constipation in some children.
Avoid giving your child caffeinated drinks like tea and coke.The amount of water children need varies based on age, activity levels, and the climates in which they live. However, if your child is tired and passes cloudy or dark urine, this indicates that he or he is dehydrated.
 Fiber will help your child produce soft stools that are easy to pass. High fiber foods include beans, whole grain breads, fruits and vegetables. The following are recommended amounts of fiber for children:Approximately 20 g of fiber per day for young children
About 29 g per day for teenage girls
Roughly 38 g per day for teenage boys

, Most are rich fruits that your child will probably readily enjoy:Prunes
Peaches
Pears
Plums
Apples
Apricots
Raspberries
Strawberries
Beans
Peas
Spinach

, These include:Milk and dairy products for some children
Carrots, squash, potatoes, bananas, and other foods with a high starch content
Highly processed foods that are high in fat, sugar, and salt, but low in fiber will also increase a child's tendency to become constipated. Those foods will make the child feel full and they are likely to pass up other, healthier, high-fiber foods.
 This will help stimulate bowel movements. Activities include:Taking your child to a playground to run around
Encouraging bike riding
Going swimming

, Suggest that your child sit on the toilet for at least 10 minutes approximately 30-60 minutes after each meal and try to have a bowel movement. You can pair this with relaxation techniques that may reduce your child’s anxiety about having painful bowel movements.Use deep breathing to help your child concentrate on relaxing his or her muscles.
Have your child imagine relaxing images or a bowel movement that isn’t painful.
Gently massage your child’s belly before he or she tries to have a bowel movement
Be supportive and reward your child for trying. You can give a small reward such as stickers or playing his or her favorite game.
Provide a stool so that your child’s knees are above his or her hips. This may make the bowel movement easier.
 Fiber supplements or stool softeners may make it less painful to have bowel movements. Though they are available over the counter, it is best to consult a doctor before giving them to a child.The doctor will recommend a dosage that is tailored to your child’s age and weight.
Common fiber supplements are Metamucil and Citrucel. These work best when your child also drinks at least a liter of water per day.
Glycerin suppositories may also help when used occasionally.
 There are a few different kinds of laxatives, including:A home remedy of mineral oil
Bulk-forming laxatives (Ispaghula husk, Methylcellulose, Sterculia) which cause the body to retain fluid and form wetter stools
Osmotic laxatives (Lactulose, Macrogols, MiraLax) which help the body pass stool by putting more liquid in the bowels
Stimulant laxatives (Senna, Bisacodyl, Sodium Picosulphate). These are used when the stools are soft enough to pass but your child’s body isn’t passing them. These medications stimulate the muscles in the digestive tract to contract and push waste along towards the end. They are generally a last resort for treating constipation in children and used only short term in most cases., If hard, dry stool has collected in the rectum, it may be necessary to do an enema or use a suppository to clear it out. These should only be done by the doctor or following a doctor's instructions.A suppository is medication that is inserted in capsule form into the anus where it dissolves and is absorbed. Bisacodyl and Glycerine are often given as a suppository.
An enema is medication in fluid form that is introduced into the large intestines via the anus. This is usually the most effective way to quickly clear out impacted stool.

