 You can play hide and seek with multiple people and multiple dogs if you want, or you can play it alone with just your chihuahua. First, tell your chihuahua to stay in one place (he’ll need to know this command) and then go hide somewhere in your house. Once you’re hiding, call your chihuahua’s name so he’ll come find you.You may need to say your chihuahua’s name a couple of times if he isn’t use to the game yet.
If your chihuahua doesn’t know the stay command, or isn’t good at it, you might need another person to hold him in one spot while you hide. Once your hidden, that person can let him go and he’ll come find you.
Make sure you only hide in place where your chihuahua can get to or is allowed.;
, If your chihuahua has a lot of toys, chances are they end up all over the house throughout the day. A great game to play with your chihuahua at the end of each day is to have him fetch his toys and put them away in the toy box.Such a game will require some training in order for your chihuahua to learn certain commands.
For example, you may want to use the command “clean-up” to indicate your chihuahua needs to find all the toys and bring them to you.
Another example is to teach your chihuahua a command, like “in the basket” to tell your chihuahua he needs to place each toy in the toy box.
 Either using a rope (there are rope toys of all sizes specifically made for dogs) or another favourite toy, play tug-o-war with your chihuahua. Basically you want to grab the toy at the same time as your chihuahua and not let go. Your chihuahua will then tug on the toy to try to get it away from you.If you have more than one chihuahua, you might even be able to teach them to play tug-o-war with each other. Or they might just figure it out themselves when they both want to play with the same toy at the same time!

, Fetch is a game that comes naturally to some dogs due to their instincts; chihuahuas are one of those breeds. When you throw a toy for your chihuahua, he may instinctively go get that toy and bring it back to you. If he does this, use the word “fetch” while he’s bringing the toy back so he begins to associate the command with the action he’s performing. Eventually he’ll understand that when you throw a toy and say “fetch,” he’s suppose to bring the toy to you.While in training, your chihuahua may not always bring the toy back to you when you throw it. If he doesn’t bring it back to you, and instead you have to go get it, remember not to say the command “fetch."

