 Gerbils’ teeth continue to grow throughout their lives. To keep their teeth from growing too long, gerbils need to gnaw or chew on something. If your gerbil doesn’t have much to chew or gnaw on, or is old and cannot chew very well, his teeth will begin to overgrow.Sometimes, your gerbil may have broken or missing teeth.You may notice that your gerbil’s teeth do not align well with each other. This can cause the incisors and/or cheek teeth (teeth in the back of the mouth) to overgrow. Overgrown incisors look like tusks.;
, With dental problems, your gerbil may not be able to eat very well, causing him to lose weight. If you are used to picking him up every day, you will probably be able to tell if he has lost weight. If he feels a bit lighter, but looks otherwise healthy (e.g., bright eyes, alert), he probably has a dental problem., Other than weight loss, you will notice other changes with your gerbil if he has dental problems. For example, he may begin drooling because he can’t chew his food properly.He may also start preferring soft foods over hard foods, or stop eating completely.Your gerbil may not want to open his mouth, and might shy away from you when you touch his head., Since your gerbil’s dental problems could cause serious health issues, you should take him to your vet when you notice any signs of dental problems. Your vet will be able to take a closer look in your gerbil’s mouth and come up with a treatment plan., If your gerbil’s teeth are overgrown, your vet will need to trim them. They will use specialized dental tools so they can trim the teeth and even out any sharp or uneven surfaces on the teeth. For example, your vet will use a dental drill or bone file to smoothen the teeth's edges.If your gerbil’s teeth are really overgrown, your vet would need to sedate your gerbil for the teeth trimming.Do not attempt to trim your gerbil’s teeth at home! Not only would this be painful for your gerbil, but you may also worsen his dental problems.
 Since your gerbil’s teeth are always growing, you may need to take him to your vet for regular teeth trimmings. Be aware that, over time, these regular trimmings may get tedious and expensive.Your vet can let you know how often your gerbil would need to come in.
 Wild gerbils will chew on grass and gnaw on tree bark to prevent their teeth from overgrowing.Feeding your gerbil grass from your yard wouldn’t be such a good idea though, since the grass could contain harmful ingredients like pesticides that would make your gerbil sick.Not all types of wood are safe for your gerbil. Feed your gerbil only safe woods, including mulberry, magnolia, and poplar. If you have any of these trees in your backyard, wash and dry the wood pieces before giving them to your gerbil.If you are not sure if the tree branches in your yard would be safe for your gerbil to gnaw on (or if you think they have pesticides on them), purchase a gerbil-safe wood block from your local pet store., Other than wood, chew toys are a great way to prevent dental problems in your gerbil. Toys made of wood, leather, or rope make excellent chew toys for gerbils.Empty cardboard boxes, Kleenex boxes, and toilet paper rolls are also ideal for your gerbil to chew on.Watch the chew toys for signs of wear and tear. Replace them frequently.
 The more regularly you check your gerbil’s teeth, the quicker you will be able to tell if he has a dental problem. Make a habit of looking in your gerbil’s mouth about once a month.Fortunately, since gerbils are so friendly and like to be handled, it should be easy for you to check your gerbil’s teeth.