 This is an incredibly easy and rewarding habit to add to your personality. People love to talk about themselves and if you are a curious and insightful person you should always be able to find something interesting about the person. Imagine a metal detector on a beach. Keep asking questions until you get closer and closer to the topic that they like talking about the most. For many people it’s their work, or their family, or their children. Find out what makes them tick and you’ll end up having an interesting and valuable discussion.


For example, if you meet someone try to find out what makes them interesting. It doesn't have to be a constant stream of questions but balance talking about your own experiences with what they say. Maybe you really like mountain biking and you notice they have a mountain bike. Don't start talking about how good you are at mountain biking - ask them a lot about what they enjoy.
 You don’t have to be someone you aren’t, but confidence can take many forms. Being confident doesn’t mean you have to suddenly be extremely extroverted and talkative. Reassure yourself everyday that you are amazing. Just be confident in the personality that you have and other people will be drawn to you. There’s no use faking it. People are attracted to those that are real. , People will thank you for bringing some fun into their world. Don’t make jokes at other people’s expense. Just keep a generally positive outlook on the world. When you encounter a problem try to laugh at it with other people rather than mope and complain. Everyone will appreciate this part of your personality and you will probably be happier for it too.
 This is the most important step. No matter who you are, if you are nice, the only reason a person can dislike you is if they are jealous of you. Never be rude to people. If someone is being unkind to you, try to imagine what might be causing him or her to act this way. Maybe they are going through a really difficult situation in their life and in reality they are a very good person. Try to assume the best in people. You don’t have to be naïve and it’s okay to remain skeptical, but that doesn’t mean you ever have an excuse to treat anyone poorly. , You always have to remember to keep your cool. This will earn you an enormous amount of respects, especially if you keep calm in situations where everyone else panics. Just try to take things as they come and don’t get too high or too low. This is something that you can do consciously and people will really respect your ability to keep everything together.


For example, try to find a way to make people feel comfortable and less tense if something bad happens. If your teacher moves your paper forward a week don't moan and complain - make a joke!

, Don’t pass judgment on anyone too quickly or assume you already have all the friends you need. Even if someone seems like they would be the type of person you normally really dislike, give them an opportunity. That’s what you would want, right? It’s the golden rule – treat other people the way you would like to be treated. You don’t need to try to make friends with people who are more popular than you or people you think can help you get ahead. Just deal with the people you meet on a case-by-case basis and surround yourself with the people you really enjoy. Always remain open to new friends and new relationships. 