 Determine what your needs are now, not what you expect them to be in the future. Are you going to use the airplane primarily for family trips, or will it be used for business? Also consider your budget.


What you pay for an aircraft is only part of the cost of ownership. Don’t forget to include the cost of operation and maintenance. Too many pilots don’t have a definite amount set for what they are willing to spend.
As a result, they keep increasing what they are willing to spend as they come across airplanes that are just beyond their financial reach.;
, Once you have picked out a specific aircraft type that will meet your needs and budget, start comparing individual craft. Here are some factors that can affect your buying decision.


Total time: The lower total time the more expensive the aircraft. Aircraft Blue Book and the Aircraft Value Reference, Vref, have formulas to help you determine how total time affects the price of an aircraft. Engine time: Aircraft engines have a life expectancy known as TBO (Time Before Overhaul) established by the manufacturer. This number reflects when the average engine will need an overhaul. Exterior/Interior condition: What is the overall condition of the plane? Look for things like corrosion or the condition of the seats. Avionics: The condition of the avionics can make a difference in the value of a plane. Aircraft Blue Book and Vref have formulas for calculating the value of avionics.
 Knowing the history of an aircraft is important. Get as much information related to the aircraft as possible. This will include specifications, maintenance history, damage, etc. Aircraft with damage may still be a good craft, but you might want to consult a broker to help you determine the true value.
 Leave the window open and listen as you crank up the engine. Check the gauges during takeoff and get a feel for the aircraft in flight. Make sure to check that all the avionics are functioning properly.
 Once you have chosen the airplane you want you will need to put down a deposit to take it off the market. This can be done through an escrow service if you are not comfortable with handing your money over directly to the seller. You should be agreeable to the terms of the sale and make sure your money is refundable in the event the deal falls apart.
 This is the responsibility of the buyer and a good investment. Hire a trusted mechanic to give the aircraft a thorough inspection. Provide the mechanic with a list of the craft’s specifications along with a pre-purchase inspection checklist (some financing companies require this).
 Make certain there are no old liens on the aircraft before you purchase it.
 Shop around for a good insurance policy. Your experience level as a pilot plays a major role in the type of aircraft you can get insurance for. Speaking with an insurance agent ahead of time will let you know if you are wasting your time looking at aircraft you won’t be able to get insured.
 Finally, enjoy your new aircraft.

