 Some people feel a need to reach out to those that others have deemed "unlovable" for religious reasons — for instance, because their religion calls on them to extend a loving hand to others even when it's difficult or out of a sense that this sort of selfless behavior is desirable. All major world religions more or less encourage their followers to act with love and kindness towards others, so if you're looking for inspiration in moments when it's difficult to love another person, turn to your religion's scriptures. Below is just a tiny selection of religious quotes on the subjects of love and empathy from a wide selection of world religions (many, many, more exist).


Christianity: If anyone says, "I love God," and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen.Islam: "None of you has faith until he loves for his brother or his neighbor what he loves for himself."Judaism: "What is hateful to yourself, do not do to your fellow man. That is the whole Torah; the rest is just commentary. Go and study it." Hinduism: "When a person responds to the joys and sorrows of others as if they were his own, he has attained the highest state of spiritual union."Buddhism: "Compassion is a mind that savors only mercy and love for all sentient beings."Sikhism: "Even Kings and emperors with heaps of wealth and vast dominion cannot compare with an ant filled with the love of God."Note: because "loving the unlovable" is a phrase that's often used in a Christian context,the rest of this section will reference certain Christian concepts and terminologies. However, it's important to understand that virtually all major religions advocate love of others, especially "unlovable" people, who need love most of all.
 God, the creator of the universe, is the source of all love. When we love, we emulate God. In fact, when we make an effort to love others even when they act in ways we consider to be unlovable, we're imitating one of the greatest traits of God of all, which is that he loves all people unconditionally. If you're having a hard time justifying your continued kindness to someone who seems not to deserve or appreciate it, try to think of your behavior less as an action you're performing for another individual and more as a way to practice God's love.
 As noted above, God loves all people unconditionally. However, people who have strayed from God's path, shunning his love, need love the most of all. Only through love (never through force or coercion) can these people be brought back to God's light, so, by showing them love, you are opening this spiritual door for them.


In Christianity, returning to the love of God after doing wrong is generally considered to be one of the greatest personal victories of all (for a textbook example, see the parable of the prodigal son). By showing your love to another, you're making this victory more possible for this person.
 One way to motivate yourself to extend your love to a person who's making it difficult to do so is to think of this act as a sign or testament to the power of your faith. If you normally would have a hard time loving someone because of your behavior, view this as a challenge to your faith — trying your best to love this person is a way to prove your devotion.
 Some people's actions are so hurtful that it's very, very difficult to love them, especially if they've hurt you personally. Even if you can't bring yourself to truly love someone, don't forget that God loves this person just as much as he loves you. For this reason, the unlovable person is, at the very least, worthy of your kindness and forgiveness, even if you can't sincerely bring yourself to love him.


For an inspiring story of forgiveness, see the story of Robert Rule, who famously forgave serial killer Gary Ridgway for the murder of his daughter, Linda Rule, because it was, in his words, "what God to do.", Treat other people the way you'd like to be treated — virtually every culture and religion on the planet has some variation on this rule (several are listed in the selection of quotes above). No matter what someone does or says to you, the Golden Rule dictates that you should treat them the way you'd like them to treat you. If someone's practically unlovable, keeping the golden rule in mind can help you justify your continued efforts to extend your best kindness and love even in the face of this person's hostility.

