


Every day we're faced with countless decisions. In these moments we have to make the right choice - the safest, most comfortable choice.
Imagine yourself in bed and your alarm clock goes off, and you have to get ready for school. Whether you're home schooled or not, just imagine yourself in that particular situation. Would you smack the snooze button and wish for another day, or would you get up, despite the sleepiness, and groom yourself for school? Decisions like this are complicated ones, and take discipline to complete.;
,


Meditation isn't when you sit in "Indian Style" and hum to yourself. Meditation is in different forms. It is up to you to decide what your meditation is. Is thinking your meditation? Is writing poems your meditation? Writing and playing music? Are video games your meditation? It's ok for video games to be your meditation, as long as you play them sparingly. As long as you can think thoroughly while playing them.



The whole reason why some of us can't keep track of what we do is because we don't know how to use time management. This is when you control the usage of time spent into a particular subject or action being done.

What? Ok, let's say it like this. How much time do you usually spend in your "leisure" time? How much time do you usually spend with chores? Think about that. Which time is more? Normally, as teens, we usually spend more time doing leisure things when we have that time. Now, this is not saying that you have to spend the rest of your life doing chores. The point is, try splitting your leisure time in half and focus on the things that really matter.



This is the number one problem we all have when we don't want to do something, especially being as teens. The idea behind it is that when we're left to our own devices, it's easy to come up with excuses not to do something. Don't wait until you "feel like it".
Sometimes we may say to ourselves, "I'm tired and I don't feel like it because it's too hard!" Bla, bla, bla! Sometimes it takes a little bit of pain to accomplish what we're trying to get accomplished. Really, our body is ready for it, but our mind isn't, because we need to feed it.
To feed your mind, think good thoughts. Do good things. Whether you notice it or not, when you do good things, your mind will pick up on that good deed, and will try to accomplish it again. That's how "habits" are formed.



Why should we set goals? Just think about it. They give you a very clear direction in life and help you connect your daily action to a greater purpose. This is suggesting that your life means something and you're not roaming around thinking you have no purpose.
When you create goals, make sure they're: smart, specific, relevant, timely, and attainable.
Don't set a simple, unspecific goal like I want to lose weight. Make it specific and strong like I want to loose 10 lbs. of fat by August 6.



Our mind can be our greatest ally, and biggest foe. One of our mind's greatest flaws is that it often struggles to get things started. But once we're in the flow, it's easy to keep the pace.
If you're really struggling to get going with your work, exercising, meditation, etc., do it for just five minutes. This will train your mind to get use to how things go.
Usually when you start for 5 minutes, you usually (unknowingly) start going ahead of five minutes.
 This is another mind thing.


If you're sorta-committing, there'll always be a little voice in your head saying, Ahh, I'll take this day off. You waist a lot of will power trying to fight that voice.



Not everyone likes how you want to better yourself as a human being, but that doesn't mean you have to stop doing what you do just to impress someone else. This won't get you anywhere.

