 Pick your rabbit up carefully, and hold it tightly so that it cannot thrash around. Restrain the rabbit by wrapping it snugly in a towel, like a burrito. Leave only the head exposed. A struggling rabbit is difficult to handle, it could even break its back. Rabbits are very social creatures. You should have few issues with handling your bunny as long as you spend quality time bonding with it.
 This will help prevent the irritation and potential infection of your rabbit's eyes. Use moist cotton balls to gently clean the area around the eye. If your rabbit has a heavy amount of fur around its eyes, try using a mascara brush or a small flea comb to comb back the fur from the eye.Never directly touch the rabbit's eye. This can cause more harm than good.
If there is something in the rabbit's eye, take it to a veterinarian or look for a rabbit-approved eye wash solution. You may be able to wash the surface of the eye with focused water drops from an eye-dropper.
 Rabbits need their claws trimmed every 4-6 weeks. The claws are like fingernails, and never stop growing. Most indoor rabbits won't wear their claws down enough, so they need to be clipped before they grow out of hand. Hold your bunny on its back like you would cradle a baby, then gently clip its nails. Be cautious not to cut too far, as this will cause immense pain and bleeding in the rabbit. You can buy a special rabbit nail clipper to make this process easier, or you can (very carefully) wield a standard human nail clipper.


Try to make it a good experience with treats so your rabbit will be more comfortable with you handling its feet.Make sure to only trim the white part of the nails. Leave the pink roots (the blood vessels) alone! It helps to shine a light from underneath the claw so you can ensure that you don't clip the blood vessel. If you clip the blood vessel apply styptic powder or flour to help clot the bleeding. Apply pressure for about a minute.
 If your long-haired rabbit that keeps developing hairballs and matted fur, try cutting the fur down to an inch or so. You can use scissors or a pair of standard trimming shears. This way, the rabbit won't get cold, but it will be much less likely to develop loose hair.Do not trim the fur all the way to the skin. Fur offers natural protection against heat, cold, and anything that may injure the rabbit., If your rabbit seems to be scratching itself more than normal, try splaying its fur to check for fleas. If you do notice any fleas, run through the rabbit's fur with a flea comb to remove them.You may need to take more drastic measures like a spray or a flea collar.

