 Prepare a clean, clear space with the appropriate instruments and tools for the task. If you do not have access to the materials necessary for this procedure, they can all be purchased easily online. You will need the following:


A clean, properly sterilized beaker that is free of dust or other particles
A sample of water, poured into the beaker
Filter paper
An evaporating dish
A stirring stick
A pipette large enough to collect a 50 ml sample
A scale

, Make sure that it is completely dry and completely clean of any extraneous particulate matter.
 Stir vigorously enough to agitate the solution. This ensures that any particulate matter is more or less evenly distributed throughout the sample.
 Make sure you're still stirring the water while collecting the sample — don't let the solution settle before you pipette your smaller sample. If you find this difficult to accomplish, you might ask a friend to pipette the sample while you stir.
 Put the 50 mL water sample from the pipette through the filter paper three times to ensure all particulate matter has been collected in the filter.
 Transfer the filtrate from the previous step to the evaporating dish you weighed in step 2, and wait for the filtrate to dry completely. Once the dish and filtrate are dry, weigh them in milligrams (mg).
 Use the following formula to calculate the TDS of your solution: TDS=/mL sample In this formula, A stands for the weight of the evaporating dish + filtrate, and B stands for the weight of the evaporating dish on its own.
Because you pipetted 50 mL of water, the value of "mL sample" in this case would be 50.
The final value of the Total Dissolved Solids is measured in mg/L.
Water with a TDS of less than 500 mg/L meets the Environmental Protectino Agency's standards for drinking water.A high TDS does not necessarily mean that water is unsafe for consumption; it may just suggest that the water will have unpleasant aesthetic qualities in terms of color, taste, smell, etc. If you are concerned about the safety of your drinking water, you should have your water professionally tested.

