 Plan to make extra of foods you make, and save the extra for later use.

Pack leftovers in portion-sized amounts in microwaveable containers.
Use separate containers, if you prefer, for sauces and to keep foods separate.;
,

Fresh and dried fruits are healthy and natural, and they generally need no additional packaging.
Nuts and seeds are likewise easy, portable snacks.
Peel and slice your own carrots rather than buy the "baby" carrots. They are the same thing, except that the latter have had the skins shaved off and are packaged in a bag.
 You can control what sorts of things you put in or on your homemade pizza, and you can make up several batches at a time. You can freeze the dough cooked or uncooked, or you can freeze the entire, cooked pizza., Homemade waffles are not difficult to make, but you probably don't have time to make them as you rush out the door Monday morning. Try making up a double batch. Freeze the extras on a baking sheet, then wrap them in airtight wrapping and freeze.

Reheat frozen waffles in a toaster or toaster oven. Microwaving waffles and other bread products makes them rubbery.
 Individually packaged yogurt makes for a lot of packaging, and most of it has quite a bit of added sugar. Instead, add chopped, fresh fruit. Strawberries, bananas, oranges, apples, and many other fruits all complement yogurt nicely, with little or no added sugar.

If it's going in a lunch box, pack it in a reusable container and add chopped fruit directly.
 Compare the unit price of plain oatmeal to any boxed cereal and you'll quickly see how much more costly boxed cereals are. There's nothing special in them, either, but there is often a lot of added sugar and salt. (Read the nutrition facts, not the big print on the front of the box.) Boxed cereals also include a lot of extra packaging., If you love the pre-made instant oatmeal packets, take a moment to note the artificial flavors and glob of added sugar. Then, make your own. You can use old-fashioned, rolled oats (they cook just fine in boiling water or a microwave) or purchase plain instant oats. Then, add your own dried fruits (chop up the larger ones), slivered nuts, seeds, and any other flavors you want. Try a bit of cocoa powder! You can pack them directly in a reusable container, prepare them in that container, and eat out of that container., You can combine the dry ingredients for your favorite recipes. Remember to label them. Include what they are, what other ingredients need to be added, and any cooking instructions you'll need to get from the mix to the finished food., Hamburger Helper and similar products are generally a box of rice or pasta and a flavor packet containing a lot of salt and thickeners. In many cases, you could prepare an equivalent meal from scratch in the time it takes the rice or pasta to cook. Try beef stroganoff for one easy place to start. Or learn to make cheese sauce from real cheese in the microwave in less time than it takes to boil water and cook pasta and whatever else you'd like to eat with it., First cut the banana in half, then slice each half in half lengthwise twice until you end up with eight 2 to 4 inch (5.1 to 10.2 cm) spears. Place these in a dehydrator set to 135 or an oven set to 125 until the desired texture is reached. The more moisture you remove from the banana they longer they will last in storage. But they make a great chewy snack that lasts for days if you take them out just before they get crispy.

Hint: You can spend just a few minutes prepping this before you go do bed and they'll be ready for a quick, walking out the door breakfast by morning.

