 Invite ladies that are married and try to invite those who have an appreciation for other cultures or are of Indian origin.;
, The first two things you will need are the haldi and kumkum. If you live in a foreign country, find out and visit an Indian store close to home. If there is nothing in your zone, haldi and kumkum can be purchased on sites like Amazon. Here are some other things you will require:


A blouse piece of a sari. If not available, then a small gift: a simple necklace or pendant or idol will do.
Apples, bananas, and coconuts.
A leaf called vettal.
Simple gift bags.
Snacks: ladoos, moong dal fritters, and sweets (explore your neighborhood Indian store for ideas).
 In each bag, place a coconut, the gift or blouse piece, a fruit and two leaves.


Make enough gift bags for the guests only. Even if your female guest brings members of her family, she is the only one to receive the gift.
 On the day of your Haldi Kumkum ceremony, wear black, since black is the color of this festival. If your culture has beliefs against black, don't panic. Slap on something bright and colorful for the occasion.



In two small bowls (preferably silver), put the haldi and kumkum and add a trickle of water in each, to turn them into a slight paste.
Put the bowls on a tray (preferably silver) and keep ready for your guests.
Before the ceremony, it is customary to offer a bit of the haldi and kumkum to a deity.
 As your guest ladies walk in, offer them the haldi kumkum plate that you set up earlier.


Ask the guests to apply the kumkum on their head and the haldi on their throat.
Offer them a seat in your home or hall.
 Try not to crack jokes because it disturbs the calmness of the ceremony. Talk about life or any interesting experiences one of your guests has had.
 Try to place the snacks on a table in the center of the guests, so as to not disturb their conversations. Pass out plates and napkins for people to use.


Keep some knives, forks and spoon handy for special guests.
When it comes to drinks, water is your best bet, but keep a Sprite handy.
 Before your guests leave, have them face north. Place one of the gifts on a tray and present it to them. Give some hugs and kisses to complete the event.

