 Before continuing forward, make sure that your sound device in plugged in properly (headphones, speakers, etc.)

If you are plugging in a sound device for the first time, you may need to make sure that the proper device drivers have been installed before continuing on to the next step.;
, Press and hold the Windows key, then press R. This should open a small box in the lower left-hand corner of your screen. Inside the given field, type or copy in “control mmsys.cpl”. This should open the Sound Devices page in a new window.
 Inside the new window, there should be at least one option listed. If you don’t see your device in this list, you will need to make sure that the device is plugged in properly and has the correct drivers installed. Inside the large white box, you should see an icon on the left-hand side. To the right of it should be 3 different lines describing the device. The top line is for the device type (speakers, headphones, digital output, etc.). The line under it will be the device brand name (example: Gioteck EX-05 Headset). The final description is important because this will say if the device is currently set as the default sound device. If it is, it should say “Default Device.” Once you know which device you would like to make the default, continue to the next step.
 Right-click on the device you would like to make the default. This will bring up a context menu. The fourth option down on the list should be “Set as Default Device.” Click this to select the device. The device you have chosen will now have a green circle with a white checkmark in the middle of it. This is now your default sound device.


Alternatively, left-clicking on one of the devices should activate a button on the bottom of the window that says “Set Default.” Click this to set the device as default.
 If you are running a wired headset, you may need to unplug the USB or MIC being used and plug it back in. If this doesn’t work, try plugging the device into a different USB port. If you are using a 3.5mm jack, you will want to make sure that it is pushed in all the way, and that there is no dust inside the port itself.

Note that it is a good idea to make sure that you are cleaning out your ports regularly with a compressed air can, for best performance.
 If you are connecting a device to your Windows device for the first time, you should hear a sound that plays when the device is plugged in. If you hear this sound, Windows should automatically start downloading you device drivers. If it does not do this, you will need to look up your particular device online to find the specific drivers.


Alternatively, your connected device could have come with a disc that contains its drivers. Check the connected devices box or manual for specific instructions for how or where to download these.
 Many times, users will simply pair their particular Bluetooth device with their PC and think that is all that is needed. However, if the PC has built-in speakers, or any other sound equipment is currently connected, you will have multiple devices listed in your sound settings. After you pair your Bluetooth device to the Windows PC, you still need to use the Sound Device menu to select it as your default sound device.

