 It is possible to connect your guitar directly to your laptop through the device’s audio-in port. This port is typically located on the side of laptops, near the headphone-out port. You may see one of the following icons next to it: a microphone or a circle with two triangles., While the average guitar cable has a ¼” phone jack on each end, the audio-in port requires a ⅛” stereo plug. You may purchase a guitar cable with a ¼” phone jack on one end and a ⅛” stereo plug on the other end OR you may purchase an ⅛” stereo plug adapter to use with your standard guitar cable.


Your laptop’s audio-in port may require a stereo plug with a TS (Tip/Sleeve) connection or a TRS (Tip/Ring/Sleeve) connection. If you are unsure which tip your computer requires, consult your laptop’s manual.If your laptop does not have an audio-in port, you will need to purchase an interface or a special cable that plugs into your audio-out port, also known as a headphone jack. These products allow you to use your audio-out port as an audio-in port. These products are sold at a variety of price points and vary in quality. You may also use these devices with your phone and tablet.
If your laptop does not have a headphone jack, you can purchase an adaptor that plugs into your USB port., Insert the ¼” phone jack into your guitar. If you are using a ⅛” stereo adapter, place it over the remaining ¼” phone jack. Insert the ⅛” stereo plug into your laptop’s audio-in port., You can listen to your guitar through your computer’s speakers, a set of external speakers, or a pair of headphones. If you are using external speakers or headphones, insert the speaker cable or headphones into your laptop’s audio-out port. Strum your guitar to test the signal.


If you are using your laptop’s internal speakers or a pair of headphones, you may notice that the signal is relatively weak. This is due to the fact that the laptop’s audio-in port are not capable of amplifying the signal. A set of external speakers, however, will act as an amplifier.You may also experience a significant delay, or a gap between when a sound is inputted into the computer and when you hear that sound.Before you can hear your instrument, you may need to download and/or open recording software.
If you can not hear your guitar, open your computer’s sound settings. Make sure your sound is not muted. Make sure the correct port or device is selected (audio-in, audio-out, headphone, microphone, etc.). For specific instructions, consult your computer or device’s manual.