 Measure the square feet of your attic floor. For each section of 150 square feet (14 m2), you should install a roof vent that measures 1 square foot (.1 m2). If the floor of your attic is 450 square feet (41.8 m2), you will need 3 1-square-foot (.1 m2) roof vents.;
,


Hammer a nail into the ceiling of the attic where you would like to install the roof vent. Hammer the nail from the inside of the attic. When you go onto the outside of the roof, you will see the nail sticking out of the roof.
Space the roof vents evenly.
Position the roof vents at least 2 feet (.6 m) below the ridge of the roof.
Ensure that there are no electrical wires or cables where you want to install your roof vent.
Avoid placing a roof vent over a rafter.
 Use a pencil to mark the dimensions of the roof vent. Use the nail poking up from the roof as the center point from which to measure.



Take off the shingles that lie where the roof vent will go. Cut off the loose part of the shingles with a utility knife.
Pull the nailed portion of the shingles off with a pry bar.
Use a pry bar to pull any remaining nails out of the area where you will install the roof vent.
 Use a reciprocating saw to cut away the area that you have marked and freed of shingles. The hole should be the same size as the aperture in the roof vent that you will use.
 Draw up the sides and tops of the shingles that lie around the cut hole.
 Place caulk onto the roof vent's flange. The flange extends outward from the bottom of the roof vent. The flange provides a surface with which to attach the vent to the roof, and also helps to prevent leaks between the vent and the surface of the roof.



Slip the back and side parts of the roof vent's flange beneath the loosened shingles.
Allow the front part of the flange to lie over the shingles.



Use a hammer and nails to secure the roof vent's flange to the roof.
Place caulk on and around the nails.



Apply roofing cement to the underside of the detached shingles. Apply the roofing cement only to the shingles covering the back and sides of the roof vent's flange.
Press the back and side shingles onto the roof vent flange. Do not apply so much pressure that you bend or dent the flange.
 Repeat the process for the rest of the roof vents that you want to install.



Use a broom to brush any dirt or leftover materials off of the roof.
Dispose of any leftover materials.

