 Whether you're wearing a top or a dress, there are a few rules for wearing a top that flatters your bust and draws attention from your waistline.



Wear: tops with v-necks, plunging necklines, strapless, scoop, or tops with narrow bodices. This will draw more attention to your bust and elongate your upper body.

Avoid: tops with a halter, very high necklines, decorated neckline, off-the shoulder cut, or boat neck. This will make your shoulders broader and will draw too much attention to your chest.
 Don't wear a material that is too clingy, especially in the middle area. You can wear a textured fabric, such as a woven material, to draw more attention away from your middle. T-shirts that are ruched in the middle will also give definition to your middle.
 Though your shirt or top shouldn't be clingy, it shouldn't be boxy, baggy, or formless, either. If it's too loose, you'll only look more shapeless and your waist will look bigger. Instead, pick a shirt or top that flows downward from your bust, like a top with a high-waistline, empire waist, or A-line. Here are some things to keep in mind as you choose the shape of your top: A shirt or dress that has a tie at the waist will also help add definition to your figure.
Your tops should fall lower than your hip bones.
You can wear a long flowing top that falls below your bottom, or even a tunic shirt.
Wear tops with flare or cuff sleeves.
Choose a top with pretty shoulder details, like sequins or flowers.
 There are a variety of dresses that can flatter the apple shape. Go for a dress that has an A-line or a continuous pattern on it. Another strategy is to find a dress that makes the most of color blocking -- a dress with black or dark colors going all the way down your figure at both sides with white or a lighter color going all the way down your figure in the middle will draw attention away from your waist.Don't wear a dress with a built-in waistline, or it will only draw more attention to your waist.
You can pair your dress with a nice opened jacket that is nipped at the waist.
 The right jacket can help camouflage your heavy midriff. You should wear a jacket that is single-breasted and doesn't have too many details. Wearing a structured jacket or coat will create curves in your chest and hips and will minimize your waist. Layering your top will help create balance for your figure. Here are some other things to try:


Tailored blazers and coats
Opened cardigans or waistcoats
A duster coat that ends above the knee

