 The right lighting can enhance the mood and improve your confidence. Aim for soft, dim lighting. This kind of lighting softens your features and many photographers recommend it for looking your best. This type of lighting can be achieved by low overhead lighting or turning on only lamp in the room. You can also create flattering light by lighting candles.Something else you can do is swap out your regular light bulbs for bulbs with red or pink hues.;
, Instead of posing straight on, try posing at a ¾ angle. This angle will play up the curves and angles of your body. Along with standing at an angle, you should pose asymmetrically. For example, bend on knee or place on hand on your hip.Choose a pose that feels comfortable and natural to you, as this will often translate to a sexy look. Trying to pose yourself too much can make you look stilted or awkward.
 If you want to accentuate your curves, lie down on your side. This position will show off your waist and hips. To show off your muscles, prop yourself on your elbows. Propping yourself off will tense your muscles more than laying flat will., First, you will need to exfoliate while in the shower. You can use a loofah or exfoliating product. Then, use a self-tanner and apply it to areas of your body that you would like to accentuate or make to look leaner. For example, apply tanner along your abdomen if you want to show off your muscles. Or, apply the tanner along the sides of your waist and inner thighs to create a shadow. You can also use bronzer or darker foundation to contour, but it will rub off easily and may stain the sheets., The right lotion can blend imperfections and make your skin glow. A shimmery lotion is good for making your skin glow. A tinted lotion is best for blending in sun spots and rashes. If blemishes are a concern, you can use foundation to blend imperfections in with your natural skin tone.Make sure to test the product or ask about it if you have sensitive skin.
 Leaving on a few accessories is sexy and can help you feel more confident while naked. Leave on a few pieces of jewelry if you wear any—like earrings or a necklace. You can also leave on a tie or bowtie. If you wear high heels, keep them on because they make your legs look longer and engage your muscles.