 The SSA is responsible for distributing social security disability benefits, as well as social security retirement benefits. Regardless of the type of benefit you applied for, if you were denied by the SSA, the appeals process will be the procedurally identical. When the SSA makes a decision to deny you benefits, they will send you a letter explaining their decision.Knowing why your claim was denied will help you file an effective appeal. Read the letter you received from the SSA in order to determine how you want to proceed.
 If you applied for disability benefits, the easiest way to start the appeals process is by using the SSA's online service.There you will be able to upload documents and start your appeal. If your retirement benefits were denied, you will need to send in a written appeal form. Your appeal must be requested within 60 days of receiving a negative determination letter. At the SSA, the first level of appeals is a reconsideration. During a reconsideration, your application will be reviewed by someone who has not looked at it yet. You will also be able to submit any new evidence you have.


You do not need to be present for this process and a new determination letter will be sent to you after the reconsideration is complete., If the reconsideration was unsuccessful and your benefits are still denied, you can ask for a hearing. During your hearing, an ALJ will review your application and case. You will be notified of the time and place of the hearing, and it usually takes place within 75 miles of your home.


Before your hearing date, you will be required to submit evidence you have regarding your case.
At your hearing, the ALJ will ask you questions and may talk to any witnesses you bring.
Once the hearing is complete, the ALJ will make a decision and will send you a new determination letter and a copy of their decision., If you continue to disagree with the SSA's determination, you can ask to have your case reviewed by the Social Security Appeals Council. However, the Appeals Council can deny your request if they think the ALJ came to the correct decision. If the Appeals Council takes your case, they will review all appeals up to this point as well as any new evidence you may have.


Regardless of whether the Appeals Council hears your case, you will be sent a letter explaining the decision. This letter will usually be considered a final agency action for the purposes of filing a federal lawsuit., As a last resort, if you disagree with every appeals decision issued by the SSA, you may be able to petition your local federal court to review the agency's actions. The final determination letter you receive from the SSA will tell you how to proceed in court.If you do not already have a lawyer, you will seriously need to consider it before going to federal court. These cases can be incredibly complex and difficult to litigate.

