 Stand with your feet approximately shoulder width apart. Transfer your weight to the balls of your feet. Bend your knees slightly.








The guard stance is extremely versatile. It allows you to execute defensive or offensive moves without raising your opponent's suspicions.;
, Bend your elbows and raise your forearms towards your chest. Bring your hands below your chin. Keep your hands open and relaxed.
 As you step forward with your kicking foot, turn your hips away from your opponent. Continue to stand on the balls of your feet. Keep your shoulders facing forwards.








Your lead foot begins and completes the move. Your non-lead foot executes the spin kick (detailed in step 2.3).
 The first step of the tornado kick is taken with your lead foot (kicking foot). Rotate your hips so that you can step your lead foot towards your non-lead foot. Allow your shoulders to follow your hips 180° from your opponent. Plant the ball of your lead foot next to the inner arch of your non-lead foot so that your feet form a “T.”








Instead of stepping in with your lead foot, you can pivot or spin on the ball of your lead foot so that you are facing away from your opponent., In order to land the kick, you need to be able to see your opponent. Turn your head until you are able to look over your back (non-lead side) shoulder. Use your peripheral vision to spot your opponent.
 With your lead foot firmly planted on the ground, raise up the opposite knee to a 45° angle. Keep your knee raised as you pivot 90° on the ball of your lead foot. Turn out and point your knee at a 45° angle.








Continue rotating in the same direction.
 Rotate your torso and shoulders away from your elevated leg. Simultaneously lower your arms and draw them diagonally across your body. Bend, or pump your lead leg (planted leg).









This will provide your body with momentum.
 As you hop off your lead leg, begin to rotate your body towards your opponent. As you lower your non-lead leg down, drive your lead leg up in a half-crescent motion. Immediately lower the leg until the thigh is parallel to the floor. completing the other half of the crescent.
 Pivot on the ball of your non-lead foot until your back is once again towards your opponent. Plant the ball of your lead foot down on the ground next to your non-lead foot. Simultaneously step backwards with your non-lead foot, pivot on the ball of your lead foot, and rotate your body towards your opponent.








This step in the process completes both the crescent kick and the tornado kick.

