 The fees for a stop-payment order may be so high relative to the face value of the check that a stop-payment order doesn't make any sense. Or, if one or several checks were lost or stolen, the potential financial harm may be great.If the costs outweigh the benefits of getting a stop-payment order, it may make more sense for you simply to close your checking account. Although switching bank accounts can be a hassle, you won't have to continue to pay stop-payment fees, or have to worry about whether that check will go through anyway.
Closing your checking account also might be a good idea if the check was for a significant amount of money. Although the stop-payment fee is relatively low in that case compared to the amount of the check, if the check was honored anyway it would be a much bigger deal.
 If you decide you want to go ahead and close your checking account and open a new one, you should speak to someone at the bank in person. They will get the paperwork you need and help you do this more efficiently.Make sure to bring with you information about your account, such as your account number, and a government-issued photo ID. You may want to check with your bank before you go to make sure you don't need anything else, such as proof of your address.
If you have any other checks out, or purchases that haven't hit your account yet, you may want to make a list of them so you know how much money to keep in your old account. Despite this, your bank may require you to keep a specific minimum amount of money there for 30 days before they finally close the account.
If you have a joint account, the other account holder typically will need to be present when you make arrangements to close the account.
 Generally, it's a good idea to go ahead and set up a new checking account while you're waiting for confirmation that your old checking account ha fully closed. That way you can start the process of switching things over.For example, if you get paid by direct deposit, you may want to start having your checks deposited in your new account rather than your old one.
With some banks, you can go ahead and set up a new checking account online, but you may want to do it in person regardless so you can explain your situation.
 Once you have a new checking account, you want to make sure that you don't use your old checks or debit cards by mistake. Not only do you risk a returned check, but your bank may extend the waiting period before your account is closed.Make sure you dispose of old checks and debit cards properly so you're not at risk if they fall into the wrong hands. Use a paper shredder, if you have one, or cut them up into tiny pieces.
 If you have any subscriptions or bills set up on automatic payment, you'll want to switch these over from your old account to your new one. Check your most recent account statement and make a list.If you have recurring payments that only happen every few months, you may want to go back several account statements to make sure you have everything.
Your bank also may be able to provide you a list of recurring payments you've authorized. If you have a joint account, you also want to check with the other account holder to make sure they don't have any recurring payments authorized.
 Once your bank finally closes your old account, they'll send you a letter confirming the account has been closed, typically with a check for your final balance. You can simply deposit that check in your new account, or you may be able to make arrangements with your bank to have the final balance in your old account automatically transferred to your new one.

