 Abbreviations are a great way to shorthand words to type your texts out faster. However, too many abbreviations can make messages borderline unreadable and the person receiving the text message may not understand you.Some abbreviations (btw, fb, u, ur) are acceptable. Try to text longhand with only a couple of abbreviations in the mix. An example of this is: “Btw, what u r up to today?” The ratio of longhand words to abbreviations should always be much greater.
Refrain from using too many abbreviations in your text messages or a text could look like this: "nm jc @ ma hous what u wan do 2dai." If a person has to concentrate to decipher a message, consider making revisions to your abbreviation usage.
Do not abbreviate text messages sent to people you know in a professional sense. It’s the quickest way to look unprofessional and immature., Texting is about quickness and efficiency, but not to the point of error. Even a small error can be a jarring read to the person receiving the text. Use autocorrect to help you finish sentences faster with proper spelling. Be sure to always proofread everything you text.
 If you ask "what's up" and they say "not much, you?," tell them something funny that happened that day. Do not follow things up with “nothing” as an answer or a one-word response. The recipient will wonder why you texted them.


Don’t text someone for the sake of texting them. People can tell when you’re using them to bide your time over versus being genuinely interested in them and what they have going on. Be detailed and invested in your messages. Text with sincerity or not at all.
If you notice that the person you’re texting is giving you one-word responses back, take it as a sign that they either don’t have anything to talk about or they don’t feel like talking. Text them another time.
 A question mark after a question or occasional exclamation mark is good. Many question marks are not. Do not use five question marks at the end of every (or any) sentence.
 Sometimes people think it’s cute to add ten winky faces or ten kissing faces after a brief text or in exchange for actual words; other people find it annoying. If you must, use an emoji for emphasis and use just one or two at any given time.