 To make a tri-corner pirate hat, you will need the following:A pencil
Twist ties
Scissors
Glue
A bowl about the size of your head
A ruler or other straight edge
Brown wrapping paper or a grocery bag

, Cut a strip of paper about 2 inches (5.1 cm) wide that can wrap around the rim of the bowl with 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) extra so the strip overlaps itself.








Don't worry if you have to glue 2 smaller pieces of paper together to form your band., You'll need enough paper to make two rather large cuts to form the top of the hat and the brim. Cut the first square to about 16 inches (40.6 cm) square and the second piece to about 24 inches (61.0 cm) square.








If you want to add a leathery texture to your hat, soak the pieces of paper in water and wad them up. Remove them from the water and flatten them out to let them dry overnight. Be careful not to rip your paper if you try this!, Place the bowl upside down on a table, and place the smaller of the two squares on top of it. Begin shaping the paper over the bowl by carefully pressing the paper down and around the rim of the bowl.
 Once you've pressed the paper over the bowl, glue your 2 inches (5.1 cm) strip of paper around the base of the bowl to form the hat band.








You may have to use a lot of glue to properly secure the band to the bowl., When the glue from the hat band is dry, cut away the excess paper beneath the hat band. Leave a little extra to tuck under the bowl of the hat.








To make cutting easier, slide the bowl over to the edge of a table and rotate the bowl as you cut.Once you've cut away all the excess paper, remove the bowl. Test the fit of the cap by placing it on your head. If the cap is too large, crumple it some more and try adding another band for more support. If the cap is too small, you'll have to start over with another bowl., Take the larger piece of paper and draw a vertical line down the center of the square. Make a mark about 20.75 inches (52.7 cm) from the bottom of the paper. Draw diagonal lines from the mark down to the corners to form a triangle.








Once you've measured the triangle, cut it out.Make a mark halfway down the side of each triangle. Draw a line to the opposite corner of each mark to make two smaller triangles.Using the bowl as a guide, trace a circle in the center of the triangle. You should now have a circle with six small triangles in the center of the large triangle.Draw three lines in the circle to cut each of the six triangles in half, making twelve triangles.Cut the inner triangles so that they spike up, but are still attached to the paper. Fold them upward until they resemble a crown., Apply some glue to the twelve triangles and secure them to the inside of the cap. You may have to use a lot of glue to get them to stick. Don't worry if you make a mess, as this is the inside of the cap and you won't be able to see it in the final product.








Let the glue dry completely before continuing., Fold each of the points on the brim to the center of the hat. The tip of each point should just touch the base of the cap. Make a crease on each of the folds and cut the points off.








Round off the corners by cutting away the straight edges left from removing the tips. You should have three rounded triangles on your brim.Wrap the rounded corners around a pencil and roll them up to the base of the hat. When you remove the pencil you should have a corner that stays slightly rolled.You can even roll the tips of each corner if you like, to add even more character to your hat. To do this, use your pencil and roll the tips in the opposite direction.At this point, you should start to see the pirate hat coming together.
 Wrap a twist tie around the eraser end of the pencil and twist it a few times. You should have a loop and two ends. Remove the twist tie from the pencil. Do this three times.








Line up the brim a little higher than the cap and make a hole through them. Run the straight ends of your twist tie through the hole. Turn the hat over and flatten the two ends to secure the tip of the brim to the cap. Do this for the other brim tips., You should now have a solid tri-corner pirate hat. Add a skull and crossbones if you like, or some buttons. You can even decorate the hat band, though most of it is hidden by the rest of the hat.Glue a few real buttons over the brim connectors to give your pirate hat a more authentic feel.