 This area of the deep web, sometimes called the Dark Net, is used for trades, conversations, and information that users want to keep private.Visitors must use software called Tor to access this region of the web, visiting websites with the ".onion" domain. While much of this activity is illegal or legally grey, this is also an area used by journalists to talk to anonymous sources, and by people interested in the concept of an ultra-private internet.


Accessing this area of the deep web is legal, although that may not apply to activities you participate in there.
 Tor is a free service that lets you connect to web pages anonymously, making it extremely difficult for anyone to track your internet activity if you follow the right precautions. Many deep web communities can only be accessed through the Tor network, since they are founded on anonymity, privacy, and secrecy. Download the Tor Browser here to begin accessing this network.


Web pages on the Tor network tend to be unreliable, often going down for hours, days, or permanently. They can be slow to load as well, since Tor is routing your connection through other people's computers to protect your anonymity.
While Tor browsers exist for Android and iOS, these are not secure and not recommended.Similarly, Tor add-ons for other browsers are not secure and are usually not supported by the Tor organization.
 Accessing the deep web tor network is legal, but many people take advantage of the anonymity to engage in illegal activity. Taking these precautions is highly recommended to avoid malicious attacks or tracking by law enforcement agencies:


Click the "S" logo to the left of the Tor Browser address bar, and click "Forbid scripts globally."Turn on your windows or Mac firewall.
Never download any file from a Tor web page, not even a .pdf or .doc file. Torrent-sharing is especially insecure.
 Try posting on the subreddits /r/deepweb, /r/onions, or /r/Tor.


Most of the deep web links in this section are only accessible through Tor, not ordinary browsers.
 The deep web is intentionally difficult to explore and maintain, so these search engines may not be as effective as you are used to on the ordinary internet. In order to find a variety of results, try using several of them for each search, such as Torch (http://xmh57jrzrnw6insl.onion/) and TorSearch (http://kbhpodhnfxl3clb4.onion/).


If you're looking for a well-known deep web site, even a mainstream search engine like google can often find a link., While the deep web is infamous for illegal activity, there are legitimate sites as well. Some are based on familiar concepts, like image sharing (e.g., http://www.zw3crggtadila2sg.onion/imageboard/). Others are more unique to deep web culture, such as secure whistleblowing sites (e.g., http://5r4bjnjug3apqdii.onion/) and eBook collections focused on subversive works (e.g., https://xfmro77i3lixucja.onion.lt/).
 This area of the deep web loses major websites constantly, partly due to crackdowns on illegal activity, and partly because many of the websites are run by individuals or small teams without any funding. To find out the latest replacements or hot spots, talk to people using OnionChat (http://www.chatrapi7fkbzczr.onion/).


