 A mnemonic is a device used to remember lists in a creative and catchy way. One of the most common forms is by creating a word mnemonic. To create a word mnemonic, you use the first letter of each word on your list and create a new separate word or phrase. The aim of creating a mnemonic is to make it memorable so you can have an easier time at recalling the list when you need it. Mnemonics can be used for any type of list, ranging from remembering the order of the planets of the solar system to recalling the order of the operations of math, as other common lists we need to know. Here are some common examples that are used:


For the order of math operations, the common approach is the mnemonic, Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally. Parenthesis, Exponents, Multiply, Divide, Addition, and Subtraction.For remembering the bones in the wrist, a common mnemonic is, Never Lick Tilly’s Popsicle, Mother Might Come Home. Navicular, Lunate, Triquetrum, Pisiform, Multongular, Multongular, Capitate, Hamate. Another form of mnemonic is called an expression mnemonic. It works similar to the word mnemonic only you arrange the letters to remember the order of the list. For example to remember the order of the solar system from the sun outward, we use: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto.;
, Creating a catchy jingle is an effective way to recall information. Maybe you have a favorite song or tune that goes perfectly with a list that you need to remember.


Popular lists that are connected to a song are the ABC’s and the “50 Nifty United States” song to recall the order of states., Using visuals to link different objects in a list helps you connect each item as you recall them. If you can think of powerful, creative visuals to associate with each image, you have a better chance at remembering your list.


For example, take four items you need to remember. The list is as follows: a pencil, a wallet, a candle, and a bracelet. Next, link each object to the next in a creative and visual way.
Link the pencil to the wallet. Think of the pencil looking in a wallet.
Link the wallet to the candle. Think of the wallet sitting on top of the candle.
Link the candle to the bracelet. Think of the candle wearing a bracelet.
Link the bracelet to the flower. Think of a bracelet holding a flower.
This type of strategy may be used for longer lists as well. Just keep thinking of different images to help you remember each item on the list.
 Creating smaller groups of information is a good way to remember a long list, especially with numbers. This is generally referred to as “chunking” which means taking a long list and trying to remember the list by thinking about it in smaller bits. By breaking the list up into smaller chunks, you can have an easier time at committing the list to memory instead of trying to memorize the entire list at one time.One common form of chunking is with telephone numbers. A new telephone number is often provided in a group of seven or ten numbers (depending on if you need to recall the area code). For example, if the telephone number is 1237894563, breaking it up in chunks will allow you to recall it more easily than trying to recall the numbers in a long sequence. Grouping it in a chunk, 123-789-4563, will help you remember it better.