 Some believe Cancer women do not love big, rowdy establishments. They tend to be drawn to intimacy, so they may dislike a rowdy bar as a date setting. Opt for a smaller, intimate location where it is easy to converse.For example, book a corner table in a tiny, romantic restaurant. You can also try a first date at a quiet coffee shop.
If you go out to a bar, make sure it's quiet. Bars with loud music and huge crowds are unlikely to win a cancer woman's favor.;
, Some think Cancer women love traveling. A good way to plan a date is planning short trips. Take her away for the weekend on occasion to somewhere she has never been before. A Cancer woman will appreciate this gesture.You do not need to spend a fortune on a trip. A day trip to a nearby city can be a great way to spend a Saturday with a Cancer woman.
Remember that Cancer women prefer intimate settings. When planning activities for a day trip, look for locations that are quiet and low-key over loud bars and crowded restaurants.
 Some think Cancer women prefer it if their partner makes the first move. They are unlikely to initiate physical contact or the first kiss. If a cancer woman seems engaged with you, try brushing her hand, touching her arm, or leaning in for a kiss., If you're planning something like a birthday party for a Cancer woman, smaller is generally better. Cancer women have a few close relationships and prefer to spend time with small groups of people. Gather a Cancer woman's close friends for events rather than inviting, say, everyone from her office or casual acquaintances from school.You can, for example, have a birthday party for your Cancer woman in your home. Invite a few of her closest friends and plan low-key activities like board games.
If you take a Cancer woman out for her birthday, invite only a handful of friends and choose a quiet location.
 Those who believe in astrology find Cancer women appreciate sincerity in a partner more than their career, material possessions, or education.Romantic gestures should come from a place of sincerity. Rather than trying to impress her with an expensive date night, go for something personal for her.


For example, you don't have to spend a lot of money on a fancy restaurant. Instead, plan an intimate picnic lunch in area that's personally meaningful for you, like the park where you first met.

