 In order for you to make the right sounds with your slide, you need to learn to mute the strings above where your sliding. This will keep the strings from unwanted vibrations and keep them from producing unwanted sounds.


To do this, gently press your fingers on the strings. Use just enough pressure to keep the strings from making unnecessary noises as they vibrate., To play your slide correctly, you need to make sure you are pressing it in the right place. You should not press the string under or above the fret because the note will sound flat.


You should also not press the string into the fretboard.
Even if your eyes say that you are directly above the fret, listen to the note. If it sounds flat or wrong in any way, move your slide up and down until it makes the right note., To start learning to slide, pick a note on your guitar. Muting the other strings with your non-slide fingers, press gently with the slide and then move it up and down the strings to make the sliding sound. You can start slow to get a feel for the different technique of playing and motions needed to play with the slide on.


If you are using the slide on your middle finger, you will not be able to mute the strings. Just apply gently enough to get the sound you want.
Try playing songs you are familiar with using your slide to get used to the different feel of the technique., When you use a slide, you should not press too hard on the strings. This will make the strings touch the fretboard, which will cause your guitar to make strange, unpleasant sounds. Move your hand up and down to gauge how hard you are pressing. If it's hard to move the slide, you should lighten your pressure. The more you move your hand around, the better feel you will have for the strings.
 As you play note after note, the strings will continue to reverberate. If you slide up the string to your next note, all the notes in between will play as well. To avoid this, mute the strings between different notes using your other hand.


You can use the finger that you are picking with or the heel of your hand to help mute the strings.
Sliding between the notes is part of the slide sound. However, if you slide between the notes you play, the sound can get overwhelming or redundant.
Practice different songs to decide when to slide and when you should mute the strings.