 In order to purchase land from the Jarl of Dawnstar to build a house in “The Pale” you will need to find out about the people of Dawnstar through their dreams.Speak to the various people in Dawnstar to learn about their bad dreams.;
, Make your way to the library., It is located on the upper level, on a lectern in the corner., Here you will find a potion called Vaermina’s Torpor. Erandur will instruct you to drink it. You will be transported to a dream realm., Once done, you will be able to stop the force field using the found soul gem and be able to choose whether or not to kill Erandur. Return to the Jarl., You must be level 22 at the minimum to start this quest. The quest is very simple and only requires you to kill a giant at a camp specified by the Jarl and return to get your bounty., After completing the above quests you will be granted the right to purchase land from the Jarl of Dawnstar., Speak to Siddgeir the Jarl of Falkreath. The will send you on a quest to kill a bandit leader at a designated bandit camp. Return to him., Once you have completed the above quest, you will need to speak to Siddgeir again., You will need to complete an undetermined amount of favor quests for the people of Falkreath in order to be able to purchase land from the Jarl of Falkreath. Check back with him after doing a few quests in the area to see if the option to purchase land has become available., When you enter Morthal everyone in town will be speaking about how Hroggar’s house burned down. You can obtain the quest directly from the Jarl, from speaking to Jonna at the Moorside Inn, or from a passing guard if you have already been to the burned house., She will want to play play hide and seek. Agree to do so. She will describe another player in the game, and request that the game happen after dark., You should have a quest marker to lead the way., When you get to the grave you must defeat Laelette and then speak to Helgi. She will then tell you a gruesome story surrounding her death., When Thonnir arrives speak to him to learn that Laelette was spending a lot of time with Alva., Here you will find her journal and more details. Turn in these details to the Jarl. You will be asked to go to Morvarth’s Lair and destroy the vampire boss within., Once you have completed the quest, “Laid to Rest” you will be able to purchase land in the Hjaalmarch region. Go to your new land plot and begin building your home., Regardless of which of the three houses you have obtained you will go about building your house the same way. You will find a drafting table, anvil, and workbench at each plot., Each house is going to need a few basic materials to build. Sawn logs can be acquired by going to any woodmill and purchasing them. Alternatively you can purchase them through your house steward if you have appointed one. Hinges, nails, and locks can be crafted using iron ingots on the anvil nearby. Quarried stone and clay can be mined in an unlimited supply from nearby deposits. Look for a pickaxe laying on the ground to find deposits., Once you have gathered your supplies, go to the drafting table and choose to make a small home. Switch to the carpenter’s work bench to create the items now listed. This will build the very start of your own home. You can technically stop here and have a perfectly viable home. However, you would be missing out on the great expansions available to your beautiful home., After you have build the small home, return to the drafting table and choose to turn the small home into an entrance hall. Then you can choose expansions to add to your home. Choose to add a Main Hall, this must be done before you can choose any specialty rooms., After you have completed creating your main hall, return to the drafting bench to decide what to add to each wing. You can choose from amongst three options for each of the three wings of the house.For the north wing, you have the option to choose between a trophy, storage, or alchemy room.
In the east wing, you will have the options of a kitchen, library, or armory.
In the west wing, you will be able to choose from a greenhouse, spare bedroom, or enchanting room.
 Once all wings have been built and your choices have been made you can go inside and decorate your house. In each room will be a workbench with various options to decorate. Gather your materials and go wild!