 Look at the colors used in your venue’s carpeting, drapery, and decorations. If the venue has strong and bold colors, you may want to select a complementary color scheme.For example, a venue with deep red carpeting and gold finishes may clash with a mint green and grey color scheme. Instead, you could use red and gold in your color scheme to match the venue.
If you already have your heart set on a certain color, you may need to select a neutrally decorated site, such as a hall with white or neutral walls, a converted loft space, or a backyard tent.;
, A great way to choose your wedding colors is to take inspiration from the season you are getting married. For example, if you’re saying “I do” in the spring, you could look to light pastel colors for inspiration. Seasonal colors combinations to consider include:Dark and deep color tones, or metallic colors like pewter, bronze, copper, silver, or gold for a winter wedding.
Light pastels paired with a few deeper shades, like plum or coral for a spring wedding.
Bright colors like bold yellows, purples, reds, or blues for a summer wedding.
Earth tones like moss green, burgundy, gold, amber, and maroon are excellent for a fall wedding.
 If you have decided on a destination wedding, you could pick colors that reflect the tropical environment. Consider bright floral colors like yellow, pink, purple, blue, and green. Alternatively, if you are getting married at a vineyard, greens, purples, and blues would look beautiful.Consider the natural color hues found within the surrounding environment and use them in your wedding color scheme.
 Although you can get most flowers during every season, it is more eco-friendly and less costly to select seasonal flowers for your wedding. Get color inspiration from your favorite seasonal flowers. Choose a flower and color that you love and then build your color scheme around that.For example, if sunflowers are your thing, there’s no reason why they shouldn’t make it into your décor scheme.
The color of your bouquet could be used as the dominant color in your decorating scheme or as an accent color to give a bit of pop.
 The colors you choose can also help to create a certain mood. For example, red is associated with passion and romance, whereas yellow is frequently associated with joy and happiness. Pick colors based on the tone you would like to set for the event.Use dark colors to create a dramatic atmosphere.
Alternatively, light colors can be used to create a fun and carefree wedding.

