 Most schools use soft white pine, 6" x 9" x 1"; cut these from 9" by 1" planks available at any lumberyard. Look for a board that is dry and well seasoned. Sappy, heavy wood is much harder to break. You can also buy specialist re-breakable boards at some Martial Arts shops. These are slightly different, and more expensive, but if you wish to practice a lot they are a good investment.;
, Advanced martial artists can strike a loose or flying board so fast that it breaks before it has time to move; but as a beginner, you want a stationary target. The best way is to recruit a human who is at least your strength and weight, and have him or her hold it where you can strike.
 This angle and position makes it easiest to put your body-weight into the motion. Hit the board straight on with the heel of your hand.
 if you hit it sideways, injury is exponentially more likely than success

, Relax. Don't think about success or failure. Take a calming breath. Focus yourself first. Unless you are extremely weak or sick (in which case you shouldn't be breaking boards at all), mental preparation is the most important aspect of the technique.
 Breaking effectively is less about the amount of force you apply than about putting all that force at the single point of your choice.
 Don't aim at the board itself; if you do that, your hand will tend to stop there. Aim your strike six inches beyond the board.
 You're not trying to push the board away, you're trying to hit it as fast as possible.
 The kiai that martial artists often emit when striking is not just for show, nor to startle the opponent. The contraction of the diaphragm and torso muscles can be used to put more power in your strike.
 Commit your strike. Don't hesitate, don't think, just do it.
 Don't try to stop your hand after the break; relax and let the motion end on its own. If you try to over-control, you will tense up and rob yourself of power. Mental knowledge is the key to a successful break.
 Even prepubescent children have the physical capacity to break boards; for any adult in reasonable health, all the obstacles are mental.

