 You can get most of the supplies at a beauty store or craft store. If you can't find anything, you can also order supplies online. You will need the following:Four nail art brushesA light shade of nail polish for your base, like a white or pastel color
Red and light red nail polish
Green and light green nail polish;
, To start, take your base color. Paint your nails as you normally would in a coat of base color. If your base color is very faint, add a second layer. Allow your nails to dry before proceeding.








How long your nails take to dry completely depends on the type of polish. However, most nail polishes take between one to two hours to dry completely., Once your base coat is dry, you can add the bare outlines of the roses. Take one of your nail art brushes. Dip it in the darker shade of red.Paint several splotches on each of your nails. Each nail can probably comfortably fit two to three roses. Remember, you will be adding leaves later on, so leave some space between splotches.
Your splotches should be somewhat flower shaped. Do not make perfect circled. Add bubbled edges, like the petals of a rose.
 You will now start adding the layers to the inside of your roses. To begin, you will start roughly in the center of each splotch. Use a nail art brush and dip it in the lighter shade of red. Draw two semi-circles, the curved ends facing each other. Have the semi-circles intersect slightly.








The shape should look something like a rough outline of a yin-yang symbol.
 From here, you will add the rest of the petals. Draw semi-circles around the ones in the center, moving outward until you reach the ends of each splotch.








Try to draw the semi-circles in a pattern that resembles the petals of a rose.
Don't worry too much if your semi-circles are not perfect or symmetric. The petals of a rose are rarely perfectly even. You just want to get a shape that resembles a rose.
When you're done, your splotches should look like roses.
 You want the colors to smear together slightly so the roses do not look uneven. You can achieve this by adding a single layer of top coat while your roses are still slightly wet. It will give the roses a nice, soft look.
 Take another nail art brush and dip it in your darker green shade. Draw two leaves stemming from either side of each rose. The leaves should look something like small wings stemming from your roses.








If you're short on space, it's okay to have some leaves overlap with other roses. This can give your design a cute, layered look.
 Dip another nail brush in the lighter shade of green. You will use this to highlight your leaves, giving them a slightly more complex appearance.Draw a small line through the center of each leaf. Start at the part of the leaf that meets with the rose.
Draw your line towards the tip of the leaf, stopping slightly before the tip.
 When your design is finished, let it dry for a few minutes. You should dry it just enough that it does not smear easily. Top off the designed with a single layer of top coat. This will help your roses stay intact longer.







