 Though taking a look at your new schedule can be very upsetting if you are assigned a teacher you dislike, it is important to stay calm despite this news. Getting all worked up about the situation will solve nothing and will only make you feel worse. Take a few deep breaths and look at the other teachers you have been assigned, as well.However, if you feel the urge to cry, take a few moments to yourself to let it out but don’t allow yourself to get caught up in the stress.;
, Rather than allowing yourself to become overly upset, put this school year and this teacher in perspective. Remember that it’s just one year or one semester and just one class. This class will take up a relatively small amount of your day; remember that.


Also think about why you dislike your teacher in the first place. If you dislike them because of things that you have heard, these things could be untrue and you may actually enjoy the teacher.
 Don’t allow this new information to ruin your day. Whether you received your schedule on the day that classes begin or a few weeks in advance, take a few moments to distract yourself from this newfound information. Wallowing won’t change anything and will only make you feel more worse, so take some time away from this stress.


Call a friend you can laugh with.
Play a game on your phone.
Listen to music you enjoy.
 Don’t allow yourself to get so upset that you let go of the things you love to do. During the days leading up to school and even after you begin, continue to do the things that you enjoy. This will give you something to look forward to after a potentially difficult day at school. Never let go of your passions just because you have received some bad news.


Continue your hobbies like playing piano or playing soccer.
 Your parents have probably had a teacher that they hated a time or two. Talk to them about what they did to deal with that and about your feelings for this teacher. They have encountered many of the problems that you are now facing, so never forget to rely on them for help.


You can also talk to a school counselor. They are there to help you navigate any issues that you should have, so rely on them for issues like this.
You might begin the conversation by saying “Hey Mom and Dad, I have this teacher this school year who I really dislike. I’m nervous about the school year and don’t really know how I’m going to handle this. Do you have any advice on dealing with teachers you don’t like?”

, Even though this is difficult, you must prepare for this teacher’s class just as you would any other class. Check the materials list for this teacher and purchase all of the required items. Make sure you are prepared for the first day of class so that you have no issues.


If there are any readings you are assigned before your first class, be sure to do them.
 Though this should be a last resort, know that you can also have your class schedule changed in certain cases. In most schools, classes are changed in the Guidance Office, but you can also go to the school secretary so they can direct you to the proper office. However, you should know that you may be unable to switch out of the class, so don't get your hopes up, and use this only as a last resort.
 Though this news is certainly not the best, focus on all of the things about this school year that will be positive for you. Allowing yourself to focus on the positives of the situation prevent you from sinking into despair about your teacher. Always operate out of a positives based mindset rather than negatives and your outlook about things in the future will remain joyful.


If your close friends are in many of your classes, be grateful for that.
Perhaps this is your senior year and you’re excited about all of the fun times that you’ll be having before college.
Maybe you got some new clothes that you’re pumped to wear on your first few days of school.
 In reality, the teacher may not be as bad as you are thinking. Take some time to find out good things about your teacher so you can feel more positive about taking a course with them. Make sure to avoid operating off of rumors or assumptions about the teacher.


For instance, if your teacher just looks or appears to be mean or stern, this could be misleading. Allow their actions to paint a more truthful picture not dictated by appearances.
If your friends don’t offer any positive comments about the teacher, challenge them to come up with at least one.
 Even though you may have been assigned this one teacher that you dislike, this is likely not the only teacher that you will have for the year. If you are in middle or high school, you probably have three or more other teachers. Take some time to think about them and what you know about them. Maybe you have one of the best math teachers in the school; you should celebrate that more than feeling upset about having the teacher you hate.
 Then, use what you know about your teacher to model your behavior in their class. If you know that this teacher, for instance, is very strict and reports a lot of students to the principal, you can prepare by making a promise to yourself to stay out of trouble completely in their class. The difference between this teacher and the others are your schedule is that you perhaps know more about them than the others, and can prepare, respond, and act accordingly.


Don't blindly believe everything you hear about your teacher, though. Keep your eyes open - they might end up being your favorite teacher once you get to know them and their teaching style more.
 Though it can be difficult to resist, don’t gossip or speak poorly about your teacher if you can help it. Negative talk only fuels more negative feelings, and if you truly want to make the best of the situation, badmouthing your teacher will never help. Remember the popular phrase that your parents may have told you: If you can’t say something nice, don’t say anything at all.


If the teacher does something that is inappropriate or out of line, however, you should tell another teacher, the principal, or your parents.
 Before the class begins, you will likely be feeling nervous, agitated or perhaps even angry. Take a few moments to yourself to meditate and breathe deeply, or get a few sips of water. Taking some time to assure that you are calm before you enter a stressful situation can make a world of difference on your mood in the class.


When meditating, you might say something to yourself like “I will have a positive attitude in class. I will have a good day. I will not allow anyone to take my peace and joy.”
You might want to go to the restroom for a few minutes so you can be alone with your thoughts, or if possible, take a few moments to be outside.
Write down a few quotes that you like about being calm or dealing with difficult situations on notecards and keep them in your pocket or in your notebook to remind you to be positive and strong throughout the day.
 Everyday of your life, no matter if it is a regular day or a day of extreme importance, you should work to make the day a good one. Good days can sometimes just happen but often they are fostered by a positive attitude and a grateful heart. Remember to stop and smell the roses and to not let anxiety rule you. You are responsible for your own happiness.Jot down a list of things you are grateful for each morning.
Pay someone you love or like a compliment.
Take a nice walk or go for a run.
Listen to your favorite music dance in your room.
Spend time with your family and friends.
Exercise so you feel great every day.
Develop any of your other hobbies further, like playing piano perhaps.
 The moment you see your new teacher as you are about to begin their class, be sure to have the most positive attitude possible. They will sense any negativity in you and may reciprocate it, so to prevent that, be mindful of your attitude. Model positive body language by keeping your posture upright and not sitting with your arms folded.


Smile. A smile can go a very long way, even with someone you dislike. Smile at your teacher when you see them, even if your smile is only slight., In the mornings when you greet them with a smile, be sure to tell them “hello” or “good afternoon” as well. Ask them questions about your assignments or projects. Ask them for advice about what colleges to apply to as your relationship progressively improves and becomes more friendly. Treating your teacher more like a person than an enemy is a great way to become more positive.You can also try to have a talk with them if you have had any issues in the past. Perhaps you don’t like this teacher because you got into an argument a while ago. Do your best to resolve this so you can move forward.
If you have fought with your teacher, you might start the conversation by saying “I wanted to let you know that I was nervous when I found out you were my teacher because of what happened between us a while ago. However, I know that a part of becoming an adult is being mature and facing your problems head on. I am hoping you and I can move forward and I commit to being a good student while I have you as a teacher.”

, Come to class on time every day and always be in your seat when the bell rings. Go to tutoring if you are struggling in the class and study the material in your spare time so you will perform well on tests and classwork. Show genuine interest in the material presented by engaging when the teacher is teaching and asking questions. If your teacher feels that you are making an effort to do well, your relationship will improve.
 Review your teacher’s specific conduct policies for their classroom, which is often posted somewhere in the room and reviewed on the first day of class. Though there are school rules that every student must abide by, your teacher often has a separate set that they find beneficial to enforce. Be sure to not break any of the rules your teacher has laid out for you so you can avoid unnecessary punishment.


For instance, if your teacher has a rule against getting up before the bell rings or chewing gum, be sure not to do those things.
 Though this step may be the most difficult of all, it can go a very long way in shifting your relationship between you and your teacher. Often times, we are so focused on disliking people that we can sometimes everything they do as evil, even if their actions are not always bad, and they may have similar feelings about us. Take some time to do something thoughtful for your teacher to show them that you are making an effort to shift the dynamic between the two of you.This could be something small like opening the door for them or helping them with their bags or something larger like buying them a small gift for Teacher’s Appreciation Day. Either way, your actions will be appreciated and they will begin to treat you kinder since you have done so with them.

