 Keeping weight off of your injured leg is vital to your initial recovery.Your doctor will tell you when it is OK to place any weight on your injured ankle. Most of the time, this will be at least 6 to 10 weeks. Do not put weight on your ankle too soon, as this may cause your bone to heal improperly. Rest is the first letter in a sports injury care acronym known as RICE, which stands for:


R=Rest. Prop you ankle up on a pillow and rest.
I= Ice. Ice for twenty min cycles.
C= Compress. Compress the ankle with an elastic ankle wrap or compression stocking.
E=Elevate. Elevate the foot and rest.
 Make a cold compress by wrapping ice in a moistened towel. Do not apply ice directly to the skin. Hold the compress to your ankle for 20-30 minutes every 1-2 hours, especially for the first few days you’re able to do so. After 2 or 3 days, use the cold compress for 10 to 20 minutes, 3 times a day as needed., You can compress your ankle by wrapping it in an elastic ACE bandage or by wearing a compression stocking. Ask your doctor about the best option for your situation., Elevating your ankle is helpful throughout various stages of the recovery process, but particularly when you are experiencing discomfort from swelling.Sit with your foot resting above your knee periodically, perhaps when you are icing., You may end up in a splint or walking boot as you heal. Even once your actual bone has fully healed, the muscles and ligaments in your ankle, feet, and leg will be stiff and weak.


Undergo physical therapy with a professional if you feel especially weak or out of sorts.Do not increase your physical activity without talking to your doctor or physical therapist first.
Do not return to sports or long-term standing until you have full strength in your calf muscle and have full or nearly full range of motion in your ankle and foot., This may be harder than normal, especially if you’re wearing a task. To take a shower, set an upside-down plastic bucket or stool in your tub, wrap your cast in a garbage bag, prop it up and off to the side, and shower the rest of your body normally.
 Note: This one might not come with a formal doctor’s recommendation, as they tend not to like it when you stick stuff in your cast. That said, the plastic sticks that are attached to the balloons in the aisle of your grocery store may have something to say about that itch just out of your fingers’ reach.
 There are a few ways to get air in your cast to prevent the growth of odor-causing bacteria and other sources of unpleasantness inside your cast. Perhaps the best way is with a vacuum, which can draw air through the porous material that makes up your cast, forcing fresh, dry air to replace it and refresh your skin.


You can buy vacuum attachments designed for this purpose, or simply try the attachments you may already have. You just need something of a seal between the vacuum hose and the wall of your cast.
 We should all be paying attention to the quality and quantity of what we consume. This is especially important when our body is working to repair itself. There are some surprising facts associated with bone recovery in particular. Some helpful points to know:


You may actually need to increase your caloric intake. This may seem odd, since you’ll likely be more sedentary with a broken ankle. However, bone recovery processes sometimes lead to increased metabolic demand, so much so that your ideal caloric intake will be much higher than normal. If you’re your metabolic demand is not met by your caloric intake, your healing process may be slowed.Eat more protein. Research has indicated that even small increases in protein consumption will speed up your bone’s recovery process.Make sure you’re getting your nutrients. Zinc, calcium, copper, phosphorus, magnesium, and silicon are particularly important to bone health and recovery.Take your vitamins. In fact, step up your vitamin intake. Whereas protein and minerals provide the materials with which bones are rebuilt, vitamins make it happen. Vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin K, and the B vitamins have been proven to play a role in this process.