 Ball-tipped probes are generally safest so they don't hurt the snake, though ones that are dull-tipped are also appropriate. You can find kits online that come with several sizes.You don't want to use one too small. The probe should just fit inside the opening when you perform the procedure.However, don't ever use one over 4 millimeters on a corn snake.;
, It is difficult to do this procedure by yourself. It's much easier if you have someone available to hold the snake face up. You should be looking at the tail end.Make sure the person is supporting most of the snake's body with her hands, especially the middle part of the body.You can also have her control the head by placing gentle pressure on either side of the head at the base. The reason you don't grasp the snake underneath the head is because it can cut off breathing., It helps make the procedure go more smoothly if you apply some kind of lubrication to the probe. You can dip the probe in petroleum jelly or something like KY Jelly., Gently tip the tail away from you. This slight bend will expose the cloacal opening, which is where you will be inserting the probe. Locate the opening., Use the tip of the probe to gently find an opening, going towards the tail end. You don't want to push too hard, as you can hurt the snake. Once you find an opening, push the probe in, letting it go as far as it will without too much pressure., Count how many scales the probe went in. If you can't tell, mark where it is at the opening with your finger and pull it out. Hold it up against the snake from the opening towards the tail. Count the number of scales. If it only went in a couple of scales, it's likely a female. If it went in 8 to 16 scales, it's likely a male.The reason you probe a snake is to see how far the probe goes. If it goes a longer way in, you have a male snake. If it goes a short way in, you have a female snake. Essentially, when you are inserting it along one of his hemipenes, one of two of his inverted genitalia. A female doesn't have these parts, so you won't be able to go as far.