 When your are contemplating a pregnancy, it is natural to have some hesitation. Try addressing the things that are causing you to pause. To begin, consider the financial ramifications of a pregnancy and of raising a child. Financial instability can contribute to emotional unpreparedness surrounding a pregnancy.Children are expensive. And so is health care. It's essential to have the means to care for a child properly or you'll risk feeling overwhelmed and possibly even resentful.
Discuss the financial details openly with your partner, including expectations about who will take time off work and when, if at all, the partner principally responsible for at-home baby care will return to work.
If you choose to be a stay-at-home mom or dad, there will need to be very clear financial strategies set in place to ensure that this decision doesn't mean you're stretched beyond your abilities financially.
Be realistic. Consider costs of doctor visits, food, clothing, daycare, etc. Try to reduce debt and save as much as possible before becoming pregnant.
 Many people are nervous about the physical impact of a pregnancy. Addressing this concern can help you feel more physically and emotionally ready for changes. Caring for the physical needs of your pregnant body can help to prepare you emotionally for a pregnancy.Many women experience intense emotions as a result of hormone fluctuations and the dramatic changes that their bodies encounter during a pregnancy. Some women are shocked to find that they have "mommy brain" and can't think straight during some or all of the pregnancy.
While this doesn't happen to all pregnant women, for those who do experience it, it can be very distracting. This might mean considering reduced duties if working, scheduling earlier bedtimes and getting help with things that you find tax your energy too much.
By exercising regularly and eating healthy, you can take greater physical control over your body. In turn, this can help to create better emotional control.
Get in the habit of getting some moderate physical exercise most days of the week. If you already work out, ask your doctor how you can adapt your routine to be safe during pregnancy.
Start taking prenatal vitamins before you are pregnant. You can also make sure that you are getting plenty of folic acid and calcium. Try eating leafy greens such as kale and low-fat dairy products.
 Write down a list of questions to ask yourself before you make the decision to become pregnant. This list can include concerns or hopes, or just general questions. After you write the questions, spend some time reflecting on honest answers.Ask yourself why you want to have a baby. Reflect on whether it is something you truly want, or if you are feeling pressured by society.
Think about your support system. Do you have friends and family around who will support you?
Are you ready to change your career plans? Do you think you'll want to work full time after you have a child?
A self-assessment can be very useful in helping you emotionally prepare for the changes a pregnancy will bring. Ask your partner to complete one, too.
 Obviously, pregnancy is going to effect your mind, body, and finances. But a big part of preparing emotionally is thinking about all of the other ways your life is going to change. During a pregnancy, you may not have the energy to keep up your normal schedule.During the beginning and end stages of a pregnancy in particular, you may feel tired. If your partner is the one who is pregnant, you may need to adjust your schedule to help her get the rest you need.
Both partners should think about if they are ready for extra chores. During a pregnancy, you will need to spend a lot of time preparing.
You will need to furnish a nursery, buy supplies, and make plans for child care. Think about your current lifestyle and figure out where you will find additional time.
You may also need to reconsider travel. Are you used to being able to take off for weekend trips at a moment's notice? During a pregnancy, you may not feel physically capable of going on a spur of the moment adventure.
You can also start thinking about how a baby will change your lifestyle. Are you ready to add caring for another human being to your morning routine? Are you ready to find a sitter each time you want to have a date night?

, Your doctor is an excellent resource, before and after you become pregnant. You can schedule a prenatal appointment to discuss your plans for conception. Be honest and open about any questions or concerns that you have.Make a list of questions to ask your doctor. Plan to discuss hormonal changes and how they will affect your emotions.
You can also ask about any special concerns you have. For example, if your family has a history of diabetes, depression, or other illnesses, you can ask your doctor to make some recommendations.
Ask your partner to go with you to the appointment. From the beginning, planning for a baby should be a team effort. That will make both of you feel emotionally supported.

