 Set yourself up for success by removing any temptations to watch pornography. Delete any files you have on your computer, recycle magazines, and block websites online. If having your computer in your room is tempting, only use the computer in public places or for limited amounts of time each day. You can even adjust your browser settings to block pornographic websites. Reduce any risks that may stand out to tempt you.


Anticipate any problems and pay close attention to your surroundings to avoid compulsion.Adjust your search engine settings. Sometimes an internet search may lead to unintentionally stumbling across pornographic images or websites.
 Pornography is scripted and often predictable. When you feel turned on, allow your mind to take over instead of pornography. You get to be the creator of your own fantasy using your imagination. Unlike porn, you can create whatever thoughts and images you desire in whatever way you fantasize.


Let your imagination run wild. It can be freeing to be the master of your own sexuality and not rely on outside sources.
 Masturbation is normal and nearly all humans engage in masturbation during their lives. Focusing on your own body during masturbation (and not on porn) can help you discover your likes and dislikes and help you learn your body. Masturbation can also help you know what will make you feel good with a partner.Instead of pointing your attention to pornography, turn your attention to your own body. Pay close attention to what brings you pleasure and what you enjoy, not just what your body is reacting to on a screen.
Be mindful while you masturbate. Get out of your mind and focus on the sensations within your body. Don’t allow your mind to be distracted, but stay present with your body’s sensations., You may avoid intimacy with another person and replace it with pornography. Consider seeing a therapist to discuss feelings of intimacy and how to resolve them.The fear of being intimate with someone may be so great that you avoid it and use pornography instead. Whatever the case, discover any blocks you have, and consider discussing them with a therapist.


If you experienced trauma, especially sexual trauma, it may be beneficial to see a therapist and help you overcome feelings related to experiencing the trauma.
 If your sexual relationship with your partner is unfulfilling, it may be due in part to pornography. After all, consuming pornography is linked to lower intimacy in couples.Instead of placing your attention on pornography, give your partner attention.


Don’t look to pornography as a “how-to” guide. Ask your partner about sexual preferences and learn to be adventurous in person.
Spend quality time with your partner and do things that you both enjoy together. You can make dinner together, read a book together, or take daily walks together. Do activities that engage you in conversation and where you can enjoy each other’s company.
 Know that you can change your habits and feel good about it. There’s no need to live in shame or guilt; be ready for the change and follow through on what you want different in your life.

