 You can engage the different muscles in your body without using or disturbing your broken wrist. To strengthen the muscles in your legs, do simple squats and lunges and keep your arms neutral on the sides of your body.


Do squats by standing in a wide stance, facing forward and keeping your back straight. While pushing your hips and butt back and knees slightly forward, squat down until your thighs are slightly past parallel to the floor. Remember to keep feet and knees pointed in the same direction. Your knees should never extend beyond your toes. Straighten and repeat.Do alternate lunges by stepping forward with one leg. Then, lower your body by flexing the hip and knee of the front leg until your rear knee almost touches the floor. Return up and lunge forward using the opposite leg., Although many back exercises require the use of dumbbells and weights, you can do bodyweight exercises that can be done with a broken wrist.


Do bridges by laying on the floor on your back with your arms resting next to your body. Keep your feet flat on the floor and knees bent. Slowly raise your bottom up until your knees and shoulders form a straight line. Remain in this position for 10 – 15 seconds, then lower and repeat.The dart is another exercise you can do with a broken wrist. Lie down on your stomach and keep your arms extended toward your feet next to your body. Lift your upper body and legs off the floor at the same time using your back muscles. Count to 10 – 15, relax, and repeat., Abs are easily worked with a broken wrist when you choose exercises such as twists and crunches.


To begin with crunches, lie flat on the floor with your lower legs on a bench. Keep your arm with your broken wrist on your side at all times, and bring your other arm up behind your neck. Raise your upper body from the mat by contracting your abdominal muscles. Raise your torso as high as you can while keeping your lower back on the floor. Bring your torso back down, and repeat.With twists, both your arms are extended out to each side while you lie on your back. Slightly bend your knees and raise your legs off the floor with your knees bent on a 90 degree angle. Next, lower your legs on one side until the side of your thigh hits the floor. Return to the middle and go to the other side. Repeat from side to side.