 Decide which image will be the background and which is the desired face.


The images faces don't need to be the same skin tone, or even of the same sex. Using Photoshop tools, you'll be able to convincingly merge the images.;
, You should be able to load them into layers, so that they'll appear open in two tabs.


Make sure to duplicate the image, so you may go back to the original image at any time if you made a mistake (or if you just want to redo everything).
 You'll want to remove the face, in order to place it on your background, or final, face.
 Click the lasso icon on the tools panel or select the L key. The lasso will allow you great flexibility to freehand select the face. You could also choose the pen tool, located on the tools panel. The pen tool is preferred because it allows you more control by setting anchor points.
 Make sure to include all the unique features of that particular face such as creases, moles, wrinkles, dimples or scars in your selection.


If using the pen tool, you can adjust your selection by clicking on the points while holding the Ctrl key to reposition. After setting anchor points, right click and select “Make Selection” from the drop down menu.
 Press Ctrl + C on your keyboard or click on Edit>Copy from the menu to copy the selection.
 Drag your desired face onto the face you'd like to replace.


You can also create a new layer by choosing Layer>New>Layer and Press CTRL + V or Edit Paste to paste the face onto the other head.
 Right click on the image and select convert to smart object. This will allow you to resize the image.
 While you are on the active layer, click Edit>Free Transform, or Press Ctrl + T and resize or rotate as necessary.


Change the opacity to 50 percent so you can see both images when resizing the faces.
 The best way to make sure both faces are in alignment, is to use the eyes and mouths as guides. Simply make sure the eyes completely overlap, then tilt your desired face till the mouths match up.


To tilt, click on the corner of the image and then gradually rotate till the images align.
 Your images are now aligned and you can return the opacity to 100 percent.
 Select the brush tool and use it to fade the edges of the face into the background image. You'll want to use the lowest percent of the brush, so that the edges aren't noticeable.


When using the brush tool to merge, black erases the top image and reveals the background, while white returns the background.
 Select Layer>New Adjustment Layer and choose Hue/Saturation. Be to put a check on Use Previous Layer to Create Clipping Mask.


Creating an adjustment layer is a safe way to make a variety of changes to the images, without losing any of your previous work.
 In this step you need to make the adjustments in Hue/Saturation by clicking Image>Adjustment>Hue/Saturation.


Enter values in the appropriate boxes or use the sliders to adjust.
 Use the same menu as you did when adjusting the color of the face.
 If you notice specific details that need attention, use the brush tool to make small changes. For example, if you notice the eyes are looking washed out, use the brush tool set to a soft setting and play with the brightness or color levels.
 Compare the images to see if your merged image looks realistic. If not, you may need to go back and re-align or blur the edges.

