 At this point, you've either already broken the law and don't need to make it worse on yourself, or you are the victim of a misunderstanding and need to cooperate to prevent an unfortunate accident. Be cooperative, but do not volunteer any information you are not explicitly asked for. If you are asked a direct question by police, you usually have the right not to answer. However, you should be aware that not answering could be perceived as hostile behavior.In the US and many other countries, you have a right to protect yourself from self-incrimination.You should never volunteer information, even if you do not believe yourself guilty of any wrongdoing. Doing so without an attorney present could conceivably cause you problems.
If you are foreign to the country and are not sure of your rights, answer questions politely and give only the barest details. If you do not speak the local language fluently, do not attempt to defend yourself verbally. You may accidentally say something that, when translated, incriminates you in some way.
An exception to this rule may be if the officer tells you to do something that involves moving. It's good to tell him what you are doing, even if it seems obvious. It will keep the officer feeling safe and less likely to use a weapon. For example:

Officer: "Let me see your I.D." You: "It's in my glove box/back seat/stocking/etc. I'm going to reach down/over and get it for you, OK?" Then move slowly.
Officer: "Lie down on the ground!" You: "I'm going to lie down on the ground, but I have a bad hip/back/knee, so I need to hold on to this pole/fence/wall to get on the ground."



, Humor is very subjective, and there’s a chance that what you think is a joke could be interpreted as a serious threat by the police.


Don't make sarcastic or ironic remarks. The police will likely take anything you say at face value. Even "joking" remarks can be used against you in a criminal court.
 It can be terrifying to be stopped by the police, but it’s vital that you remain calm and in control of yourself. If you must speak, do so in a level, clear voice.Do not yell, curse, scream, or use aggressive language. Do not call the officer names. Police officers perceive this as threatening behavior and may respond with force., Police officers represent the law. Always use respectful, polite language when interacting with an officer. Call a police officer “sir,” “ma’am,” or “officer” when speaking to him or her. Even if the police officer is aggressive, maintain a level head and stay polite.Do not speak defensively or with hostility. For example, do not say things such as “What are you doing?” or “What’s your problem?” If you want to clarify your situation, ask a polite question, such as “How can I help you, officer?” or “What is the reason, officer?”, For example, do not threaten to sue, take the officer’s badge, or retaliate. This will only make things worse for you., You should use that exact language: “Am I being detained?” Police must tell you whether they are detaining you. If the officer tells you that you are not being detained, ask “Am I free to leave, officer?” Do not simply walk away. This could convince police that you have something to hide.If the officer says you cannot leave, you are being detained. You should ask for an attorney. You are entitled to an attorney whenever you are being detained by police.If the officer does say you can leave, you should confirm that you will be leaving before doing so. For example, confirm your “intent to depart” by saying something like “If there is nothing else, I will be leaving now.” Then walk slowly away.