 There are so many! Basketball, softball, baseball, football, volleyball, soccer, and tennis are "ball" sports. Then there are others such as swimming, gymnastics, track, boxing, figure skating, dance, and badminton. Choose at least three or more sports that fit your interests.;
, Unless you are going for that jock/prep look, then keep your clothing simple: T-shirt and leggings or sweatpants, or T-shirt and shorts are simple comfortable.These aren't concrete rules, but your clothes should generally look relaxed. Preppy accessories can be added, if you wish.
 Tracksuits, T-shirts, and trainers are always a good bet. High-heels, skirts, dresses and 'pretty little pink hair clips' are not recommended if you plan on doing anything physical that day. Before you leave the house, ask yourself: "If someone invited me to play football, would I have to turn them down because of the way I'm dressed?" If the answer is yes, consider something else.
 Light pink is allowed. But you don't always have to wear bold, dark colours such as navy blue, forest green, brown, and black. Camouflage is a good pattern to stick with.
 Jocks usually are in great shape to dedicate their time to their sport.
 You don't want to be left in the dust when you're in gym and running laps or racing with a friend that's a boy!(Or anyone else, but especially not a boy!) They might just get a little surprise when a tomboy passes them!

, However, if you think that's going too far, that's fine. Do what's comfortable with you."

, If you want to be like one of the guys, you can't be that much into guys. No one's asking you to avoid attraction to the opposite sex! Just don't make it the centerpiece of your focus. There's much more to life than obsessing over guys.
 Maybe have a few friends like you who can back you up if needed, but in the long run, you should be able to hold your ground and stand on your own. If these people offer to help you, say, "No thanks, I got it." to them and in confrontations say, "Listen up, all right... Speak strongly and get right to the point. At the end say "You understand me?" and wait for their response.
 Don't gush or talk in a really high pitched voice. Find the right volume and pitch, and don't mumble. Make sure you sound confident. Swearing doesn't mean you're a tomboy or a jock, so don't overdo it. It can sound cheap and fake if overused.

