 A foam roller can stretch out tight muscles and relieve any pain or tension you may have. It’s especially great for stress-related soreness that accumulates in the neck and upper back.Your upper back muscles are hearty and can usually take the pressure a foam roller provides. But your neck and lower back are more delicate and a foam roller may put too much pressure on it. Exercise caution when using the foam roller on your neck and lower back, and illicit help from your doctors, such as your chiropractor, physical therapist, or athletic trainer, if needed.Place the foam roller at the top of your shoulders and then lay your head on top of it. Allow your head to gently drift towards the floor until you feel a stretch. Let your head continue to the floor as long as you are comfortable. Hold for 10 seconds.
Push your legs gently towards your head to get a gentle massage. You should feel the roller move over your neck with some pressure.
Lift your head up gently when you’re finished.
Consider using a foam roller cut in half or a massage ball or pillow instead of a full foam roller to protect your neck.;
, One of the best ways to stretch your shoulders, neck, and upper back is to simply roll over them. This applies broad pressure across the area to relieve tension. At the same time, it also helps stretch out the upper back and neck muscles.Sit on the floor and set your foam roller about a foot behind your bum. Lie back with your feet on the floor. Your shoulder blades should touch the roller. Raise your hips and shift your weight to the top of the roller. Then use your feet to move your roller between the middle of your back and your neck.
Place your hands on your chest to target internal muscles in your upper back.
Make 20 passes up and down your upper back and neck area., Many people sit rounded forward during the day. This contracts your upper back and neck muscles and may cause pain and injury. Doing thoracic extensions—or arches—can stretch out your middle and upper back muscles as well as those in your neck.Sit on the floor and set your foam roller about a foot behind you. Lie back with your feet hip-width apart on the floor. Your middle back should touch the roller.
Cross your arms and hand over your chest and extend back over the roller. Try and touch your head to the ground. Hold for 30 seconds and returning to starting position.
Repeat this progression up your back until you stretch the muscles in your shoulders and neck.
 Most people associate cat-cow with yoga and not foam rollers, but you can use both to stretch out your back. Try a series of 10 cat-cows to stretch out your entire back.Set the foam roller parallel to your body. Place your hands on the top of it about shoulder width apart. Keeping your hands firmly on the roller, inhale as you slowly arch your upper back towards the ceiling while looking down towards your hips.
Reverse the motion as you exhale. Slowly lift your head and hips towards the ceiling.
Avoid forcing your back and neck past your range of motion, which may cause over-straining., Tight back and neck muscles often happen because of tight chest muscles. This is a result of sitting forward all day. Using your foam roller on your chest muscles can stretch them out along with your neck and back.Set the roller on the ground and lie with your chest on it. Place your hands on either side of the roller. Then gently move yourself up and down the roller. Hold for 10 seconds in spots that need more stretching than others.

