 Don't go to Hot Topic simply to get that cute top you just saw on that girl whose parents buy her everything. Nobody likes a follower, it's okay to own the same top, but don't hunt down the exact outfit of your local Hot Topic poster child.;
, So you see the cutest outfit hanging up on the wall and when you try it on it screams: "walking mannequin!" SO WHAT? If you like the way it looks on you, wear it.
 Don't be afraid to mix it up! Go ahead, wear that blue and black corset top with a black and white plaid skirt, blue tights, and combat boots. The fact that you put it together adds to your style.
 Wear things how they weren't necessarily meant to be worn.


That corset from the lingerie section too cute for JUST the bedroom? Only you aren't IN the bedroom? You can still find some cute things to wear with it. For example wear it with a sleek black blazer and one button buttoned in the middle for example.



Many stores have plenty of options that match well and are so cute with Hot Topic apparel.



Hot Topic clothes don't come cheap. Make sure you've got a source of income to help you out. If you're a minor with a job and your parents don't make you help out with bills, feel free to spend every dime of your paycheck after you get that cool new iPod. If it's not your money, make sure it's okay to spend the amount your spending or that you'll have the money to pay them back soon.



Hottopic.com offers many things not found in stores! Sign up for the email list and get notifications on new discounts exclusive to the website!

, Be prepared to be called emo, goth, poser, etc. People are slow and tend to think that emo, punk, and goth are all the same. Well they aren't. If being called this word bothers you, consider the following:


You didn't get dressed this morning for them. You got dressed because it was cold outside and the dress code says you can't wear your birthday suit.
 If you're a minor who's parents aren't gonna let you throw out all your blue jeans in favor of the black chained and studded pants you want, see about compromising with getting a few of them and wearing them at least 3 times a week to school. Don't forget to remind your parents that just because you wear black, doesn't mean you'll be eating babies or drinking blood all the time, you're still having fun and would just like to use your body as a canvas.
 Your new Hot Topic clothes are much like the Hollister clothes in your closet. You are spending money to try to achieve a social status and fit in.

