 All children need discipline and to learn that bad behavior comes with consequences. For discipline to be effective at changing behavior, it must be consistent. A lack of consistency can lead to a child developing confusion or willfulness.


Your child should know the rules and the consequences for breaking the rules.
The consequence should happen the same every time the rule is broken.
In addition, the consequence should apply whether the misbehavior happens at home or in public.
It’s crucial that all caretakers are on board, disciplining the same way. When one person is a weak link amongst the adults in the child’s sphere, that weakness will be exploited every time. He or she will “shop for a better answer” or play the “divide and conquer” game. Be sure that the babysitter, daycare or after-school provider, grandparents, and other adults who have charge of your child are on board with your desire for consequences that are consistent, immediate, and powerful.
 The consequence for a problem behavior has an immediate impact. It is not delayed. Persons with ADHD often struggle with time concepts,so postponing a consequence has no meaning. It invites an explosion if the child gets a forgotten consequence for a previous infraction that might as well have happened a year ago., If the consequence for speeding was paying a fine of a buck for every mile per hour over the speed limit, we’d all speed constantly. This is not a powerful enough consequence to change our behavior.


We tend to monitor our speed to avoid a $200 ticket plus higher insurance premiums. The same applies to children with ADHD. The consequence needs to be powerful enough to act as a deterrent.Be powerful, but fair. Sometimes, you can ask your child what he or she thinks is fair to get a gauge on what a powerful consequence might be.
 Much easier to say than do, you must not respond to misbehavior emotionally. Your anger or raised voice may cause anxiety or send a message that your child can control you by getting you angry. Remaining calm and loving will convey the message you want. Before taking action, do a self-check to make sure you are responding in the way you want to respond.If you need time to calm down but also need an immediate consequence, you can tell your child, “I am so upset with you, that I cannot talk about the consequence of your action right now. We will discuss it tomorrow, but believe that you are in trouble as of now.” Say this in a calm and factual tone, not a threatening tone.
Recognize the importance of emotions, while not being emotional. There is a fine line between acknowledging the influence of emotions and feelings on our love for our children, and letting those emotions control the important decisions we make to care for our children.
Create mechanisms for yourself to calm down and handle your own emotions before responding to the situation emotionally.
 Your child may persistently ask you ten times to have a special privilege and you say no nine times. But if you finally cave in at the end, the message sent and received is that being a pest will pay off. If your child is persistent in the moment, you can respond with, "If you care enough about it, we can have a discussion about changing the rules later this weekend. But right now, we're going to follow the rules that we decided on earlier."

, Some kids crave attention badly enough to behave badly so they’ll get it. Instead, reward good behavior with an abundance of attention but consequence bad behavior with limited focus lest your attention be interpreted as a reward! , Once you give a specific instruction, it is to be followed without exception, because you are the adult in charge. If you allow your child to argue, he or she sees that as an opportunity to win. Many children are willing to argue until the other party exhausts and caves in. Avoid giving your child that opportunity by setting rules you can call on as objective precedents. If your child is not acknowledging the authority of your rules, maybe change your rules up. In a calmer, different setting, ask your child what he or she thinks would be fair rules. See if you can negotiate any compromises so that your child follows the rules more, and you are both happier with the outcome.
 If you threaten a dire consequence, and the bad behavior occurs, follow through on the promised punishment. If you don’t follow through, your child won’t listen the next time you try to coerce good behavior or prevent bad behavior. This is because you’ll already have a track record in his or her eyes., Make sure your child is making eye contact with you. If you assign a task, make the instructions brief and have him/her repeat it back to you. Wait for the job to be completed before distracting her/him with anything else., Even if your child has other siblings, avoid comparisons with other kids, especially siblings. Children with ADHD have brain-based differences that often require accommodations.Generally, you’ll find that you’ll have to give a child with ADHD multiple reminders, make the task shorter, require a different standard of completion, and more. Even then, kids with ADHD present symptoms and live very differently from one another.Your child is different and will act differently.
 Instead of a timeout being a prison sentence, use this time as an opportunity for the child to self-calm and contemplate the situation. Then, he or she will discuss with you how this situation came about, how to resolve it and how to prevent it from happening again in the future. You’ll also talk about consequences if it should reoccur.


Choose a designated spot in your house where your child will stand or sit quietly. This should be a place where he or she cannot see the television or otherwise be distracted. #*Designate an amount of time to remain quietly in place, self-calming (usually not more than one minute per age of the child). As the system becomes more comfortable, the child might remain in place simply until he or she has achieved a calm state.
Then ask permission to come talk it over. The key is to allow the child time and quiet; give praise for a job well-done. Don’t think of timeout as a punishment; consider it a reboot.
 You need to become as adept at foreseeing the future when you have a child with ADHD. Anticipate what problems you might encounter and plan interventions to prevent them.Help your child develop cause-and-effect and problem-solving skills by troubleshooting possible problems together. Make it a habit to think about and discuss possible pitfalls with your child before going to dinner, the grocery, a movie, church, or other public places. Before leaving, have your child repeat aloud what was decided regarding rewards for behaving and the consequence for misbehaving.Then if you see your child struggling with behavior at that venue, you can ask him or her to repeat the agreed upon reward to be earned or consequence to be administered; it might be just enough to get you through!

