 Passports can be obtained at post offices around the country. To enter Costa Rica, travelers also must have an exit bus ticket or plane ticket already purchased. While a visa is not required for American citizens, travelers are only allowed to stay for 90 calendar days.;
, While there are regional dialects, Spanish is the official language of Costa Rica. Be sure to memorize common phrases or bring an English to Spanish Dictionary when visiting.
 The national currency is the Costa Rican colon, and while hotels and restaurants in larger cities such as San Jose will accept American dollars, most smaller and rural areas only accept cash colones. Larger tourist areas also accept credit cards.
 Voltage in Costa Rica is the same as it is in America, but the outlets are only 2-pronged. Bring a converter if any appliance you are bringing requires 3 prongs.
 The United States Center for Disease Control recommends up-to-date routine vaccinations, as well as vaccinations for typhoid and hepatitis A and B. Travelers from Africa and from other South American countries must also obtain a yellow fever vaccination.
 Make sure you have all the information you can gather when preparing for a trip to Costa Rica. This includes locations of resorts, lists of national holidays, types of local wildlife, and locations of famous or unique national parks.
 Different months during the year in Costa Rica have their own particular attraction. Make sure you know when to visit Costa Rica so you will be able to experience and see everything you want to. For instance, late winter and early spring is a high tourist season, so tourists traveling during December to April will want to schedule their flights, hotel rooms and attractions well in advance.
 Costa Rica has a dry season and a wet season, though the temperature maintains a steady average of 76 degrees Fahrenheit, or 24 degrees Celsius. Be sure to bring short sleeve shirts, short pants and a wide brimmed hat. The wet season lasts from May to November, so travelers are advised to prepare for sudden downpours by bringing quick-dry clothing, waterproof footwear and standard rain gear.
 Sandals are recommended for the tropical Costa Rican climate, though travelers who want to explore the region by hiking or camping should bring hiking boots, tennis shoes, or other sturdy footwear.

