 Moss is a wonderfully diverse plant, with dozens of variations of the traditional pillow-soft green roughage. There are two general types of moss though: pleurocarpous and acrocarpous. Pleurocarpous type moss grows low to the ground and spreads out horizontally very quickly. Acrocarpous type moss grows primarily in clumps and grows in height/thickness before spreading outwards.No mosses are flowering. At times they will produce small stalks with enlarged tips containing spores for reproduction. These are the sporangia.
If you’re covering a large space - such as your entire lawn - with moss, consider using a mixture of both pleurocarpous and acrocarpous moss.;
, If you want to get some professional advice on the best type of moss for your garden, or if you just would like the ability to view a wide variety of plants, head to your local nursery to get your moss starters. Different types of moss are compatible with each other, so don’t be afraid to mix and match the plants.


If you want the convenience of a large selection of mosses but aren’t near a nursery, there are plenty of mosses available for mail-order on the internet.
Check the growth rate for the moss you choose on the plant tag. Some mosses grow at an incredibly fast rate of growth, so you may not need to purchase as much of some species as others.
 If you’re not too picky about the type of moss you want to grow or are a bit more frugal, try getting your moss from the wild. Simply use a spade to dig a patch out of the ground or off the trunk of a tree. Try to pick up a bit of the matter/soil it is growing out of when you grab it, to help keep it alive and make transplanting easier.
 Moss isn’t too terribly finicky, but there are some ideal conditions under which it can be planted. Moss prefers moisture and indirect (slightly shaded) sunlight. It is great for using as ground cover underneath taller growing trees and plants. If your only available location happens to be sunlight-heavy, don’t fret too much; your moss should still be able to grow well enough.


Moss is great for irrigating out areas of your yard that tend to flood in heavy rains. Plant it instead of grass to help endorse drainage in the soil.
Moss doesn’t have a root system, so it can grow easily over rocky soil that grass wouldn’t otherwise be able to cover.
 If you’re planting in soil, loosen the soil by taking a garden rake and plowing it until it is fine and soft. You should be able to easily pick up handfuls of loose soil. Test the soil pH and make changes if necessary; moss prefers acidic soil with a pH between 5 and 5.5. Clear any plants or weeds beforehand. If you’re planting in soil or over a flat surface, make sure the surface is smoothed and totally flat. Unlike grass, moss will show small divots and holes in the ground or area it is planted., Use a hose or sprinkler to heavily water the area you plan on planting your moss. Then, place each selection of moss onto the area with a firm hand. Press the moss down into soil/onto rocky patches to get it situated and to keep it from moving away.
 After first planting the moss, it should be watered daily for 2-3 weeks. This will help to increase its growth and to keep it in place. A sprinkler head or hose with a very fine nozzle that mists the moss is much better than direct water pressure, which may damage the plants. Alternatively, you can use a very gentle irrigation system to continually water it.If the moss begins to appear dark green or patchy over time, it is likely receiving too much water.
You can lessen the watering after a month or so, but the moss should be kept moist whenever possible.
 One method of propagating moss is by dividing an existing piece into ¼ inch sections, and replanting them spaced apart. Break up a piece of moss into smaller pieces, and replant them near each other with about 1” of spacing between each piece.


This method only works if you’re planting moss in soil; trying to accomplish this on objects will be much more difficult as the small bits of moss are less likely to stick.
 No, not to drink. Create a super-growth moss mixture by blending up moss into a liquid that can be spread onto objects and vertical items - such as walls, rocks, planters, and trees. Fill an old blender with a large piece of moss, two cups of buttermilk, and two cups of water. Blend the mixture until it has the consistency of a traditional milkshake.


This concoction does not have the greatest scent, so try to make it outdoors to avoid smelling up your home.You can use moss that is dead or alive for this, and both will work in growing new moss.
 Coat your desired objects/garden plot with the moss milkshake. You can pour it directly onto things, use a paintbrush, or a spray bottle to get it spread out. Although not as visually appealing, you can spread this mixture onto the ground rather than planting live bits of moss.
, If you don't have non-safety aspirin, soak the pills in a little water until the coating can be peeled off, and pour the whole thing into a blender.
 The mixture should be a little chunky, and not super pourable.
 This is not a great method for bare rocks, but works well around the bases of plants.
