 If a dog needs some serious restraint there are some things you should avoid for your own safety. These include:


Never put your face at the dog’s level without absolute control over its head. You can get bit that way.
Don't expect an injured dog to behave as it normally does. An injured dog can bite out of pain and fear, even its beloved owner.
Do not do attempt to restrain a dog if you do not feel confident in how to do it.
 Gauze can be used to muzzle a dog in a pinch. Cut a length of gauze (about 1 foot for small dogs and 2 feet for large dogs) and make a loose knot in the middle. Put the loop of the knot around the dog’s muzzle. Tie it off snugly on top of the nose then take the loose ends and tie them behind the dog’s ear snugly.Alternatively, there are muzzles that you can purchase that are made of fabric or nylon and work in the same manner. Gauze muzzles and basic nylon muzzles will leave the nostrils and mouth exposed allowing the dog to breath normally.
Sometimes the surprise of being muzzled keeps the dog distracted enough to perform procedures like nail trims, ear drop placement or any other minor medical procedure with relative ease.
If you have a “pushed in” face dog (like a pug) you can use a thick towel as a temporary muzzle. Fold the towel into a rectangle and place the center part on the mouth with the ends twisted snugly around the neck. If you do this you must make sure the dog is able to breath out the nose and be sure not to apply too much pressure to the neck. If the dog struggles too much, abandon this technique and consult your veterinarian for advice.
 Dogs can be restrained while they sit or stand by placing one of your arms underneath the neck, so the dog's neck rests on your elbow. Then your other arm should be placed around the dog to draw the dog’s body close to your body.Alternatively, the arm can be placed under the dog’s belly to keep it standing.

To lay a larger dog on its side have the dog stand in front of you. With your arm near the head of the dog, reach around to grab the lower front legs together. Place your index finger between the legs. With your other hand do the same to the back back legs. In one motion gently life with gently lift the dog and let it slide to the ground onto its side using your body as a “slide” for the dog.
Then you will need to place your forearms on the neck and body of the dog to gently hold the dog on the floor or counter. During this the dog may struggle so you need to have a firm grip on the dog and move quickly before the dog starts to struggle. If you do not think you’re capable of this have your veterinarian or veterinary technician demonstrate this technique to you first.
 Veterinarians, and the people who work in veterinary offices, are well versed in restraint techniques. Ask for advice the next time you are at the vet. Knowing how to safely restrain a dog could come in very handy in the future.

