 The easiest way to wipe your computer and start over is to use a Windows installation disc or USB drive. This will need to be the same version of Windows that you currently have installed. For example, if you use Windows 7 you'll need a Windows 7 installation disc. You can either use the disc that came with your computer, or you can create one yourself. You'll need a blank DVD or a USB drive with at least 4 GB of storage:


Windows 7 - Use your product key to download the ISO file from Microsoft. Then download the Windows DVD/USB Download Tool to create an installation DVD or USB drive using the ISO file that you just downloaded.
Windows 8 - Visit the Microsoft Windows 8.1 download page and click the "Create media" button. Run the tool and follow the prompts to download and create an installation DVD or USB drive.Windows 10 - Visit the Windows 10 download page and click the "Download tool now" button. Follow the prompts in the tool to download the Windows 10 files and create an installation DVD or USB drive.;
, When you wipe your computer and reinstall Windows, all of the files on the drive will be erased. Make sure that you save any important files to another location, such as an external hard drive or a cloud storage service. Any programs that you have will need to be reinstalled after you're finished.


See How to Back Up Data for instructions on backing up your important files.
 After everything important has been backed up, you're ready to start the wipe and reinstallation process. You'll be booting your computer from the installation disc or drive instead of your hard drive. You'll need to set your computer to boot from the installation disc or drive that you just created. The process is different depending on if your computer came installed with Windows 7 or earlier or with Windows 8 or later (BIOS vs. UEFI).


Windows 7 or earlier (BIOS) - Reboot your computer and then press the BIOS, Setup, or Boot key. This key will be displayed on the screen while your computer is booting before Windows loads. Typical keys include F2, F10, F11, or Del. Open the BOOT menu and set your DVD or USB drive to be the primary boot device.
Windows 8 or later (UEFI) - Open the Start menu and right-click on the Power button. Hold down ⇧ Shift and click "Restart." Select "Troubleshoot" from the menu that appears, and then "Advanced options." Click the "UEFI Firmware Settings" button to open your UEFI menu. The Boot section of this menu will allow you to change the boot order so that your computer boots from the USB or DVD drive.
 Press any key on your keyboard when prompted to load the Windows Setup program. It may take several minutes to load all of the necessary files.
 Before installation begins, you'll be prompted to select your language preferences. Click "Install now" to begin the installation after making your selection.
 You'll be prompted for your Windows product key if you're installing Windows 8 or later. If you're installing Windows 7, you'll be asked for the product key after installation is complete. You can skip this step if you want to enter your product key later.
 This will allow you to delete all of the data on your computer and start fresh.
 It will be listed as a "Primary" drive, and will usually be labeled with your Windows version.
 This will delete the partition and remove all of the data on the partition. It will be turned into "Unallocated space."


You can repeat this for any other partitions that you want to remove and combine into your main one. Any data on these partitions will be deleted as well. Click "Extend" to combine block of unallocated space into a single partition.
You can split your partition into multiple partitions if you want. This may be useful for file organization. Select the unallocated space and click "New" to create new partitions from the unallocated space. Just make sure the partition you intend to install Windows on is at least 20 GB in size.
 This will begin the installation process for Windows. The copying and installation will take around 20 minutes.
 After the files have finished copying, you'll be prompted to create your user account. This account will have administrator privileges. You'll also be prompted to enter a name for the computer. This is the name that will identify your computer on the network.
 If you're installing Windows 7, you'll be prompted to enter your product key. You can skip this for now if you intend to enter your key later.
 Most users should select the "Recommended" options to ensure that everything stays up to date and secure.
 Your computer should automatically select the correct date and time, but you may have to make manual adjustments.
 Choose the type of network that best matches your environment. This will affect your network security and sharing settings.
 After selecting your network type, you'll be taken to the Windows desktop. If you didn't enter your product key earlier, you'll be prompted for it now.

