 The yellow capsules that come inside Kinder Surprises almost look like minions. All they need are some small details. This section will show you how to make a minion using a Kinder Surprise egg. If you live in the United States, however, you won't be able to find these in a store; you will need to purchase them online. Here's what you'll need:


1 Kinder Surprise egg
Blue paint
Nail, awl, knitting needle, or small screwdriver
Yellow pipe cleaner
Air-dry clay
Black marker
Googly eyes
Black yarn
Glue

, These are unavailable in the United States, but you can purchase the eggs on Amazon. You can also try using plastic Easter eggs, although they might be more difficult to drill through. You can use other options like any egg shape toy or snack packaging. Simply paint it yellow and glue them together.


Glue the egg shut. Open the egg and place a thin line of super glue along the inside rim. Close the egg and wait for the glue to dry. This will help keep your Minion together longer.
 This will make the arm holes.,, Do this by folding 1 centimeter of each pipe cleaner arm inside the egg. Place a large drop of hot glue over each fold.
 This will be the uniform. If you want, you can also paint n's right above the seam line to make the straps.
 In the movie, the Minions also had a letter "G" on the front pocket. You can also make this your personal minion instead, and draw your first initial instead.
 You can use any color of clay, and color it black later, of you can use black clay.


Once you make the gloves, stick them onto the arms before they dry.
 You can use black paint or a marker. Let the paint dry before moving on.
 Cut some black yarn into short pieces, and attach it to the top of the minions head using some glue.
 Place the glue onto the egg first, then press the eye down onto it.
 The gloves should already be on the arms, but you might want to put some glue around the cuff of each glove so that it won't fall off. To attach the shoes, place a large drop of glue on to the of each shoe, and press it against the bottom of the minion.
 Minions make lots of silly, random faces, so you can draw whatever you want for the face. To draw the goggle strap, simply draw a thin line going all the way around the head, from one side of the goggle to the other.

