 Scrub each finger with warm water and soap, as well as the palms. When you're done, dry your hands on a clean paper towel, and then use protective gloves, either latex or a latex-free alternative. Using gloves will help protect against infection., Any tools you are going to use need to be sterilized first. The easiest way is to boil the instruments for 20 minutes, which should kill any bacteria on them. Let the instruments cool before using them., Use an elevator. An elevator is like a small chisel that you use to cut the tooth from the ligament. Insert it all around the tooth between the gum and the tooth, applying some pressure. You need to get the chisel down to where the root is.Apply gauze if there's bleeding.
You can purchase any tools you need online.
 After using the elevator, the forceps go around a tooth to grasp it firmly. You should get the forceps as far down the tooth as you possible can, which is why you used the elevator first.. The reason you need to grasp as much of the tooth as you can is because you increase your chances of getting the whole tooth at once., If the tooth has only one root (the front teeth), pull on the tooth, applying straight upward or downward pressure. If it has two roots (molar), you'll need to wiggle it back and forth a bit with the forceps. Pull towards the cheek if possible with back teeth, as you risk damaging other teeth if you pull towards the tongue. However, you may need to pull towards the tongue for a tooth in the far back., If you didn't manage to get all of the tooth, you'll need to try again. Look to see if the socket looks clean without any tooth in it. If you see some, start again with the elevator, going around the area to loosen it. That should push it outward. If it doesn't push the piece out, grasp it again with the forceps, and lift it out., To get the gum to clot, hold gauze or a cotton ball to the area for at least 30 minutes. It takes longer for the area to clot because it stays wet rather than dry.Bite down on the gauze to help apply pressure.
Once the clot forms, protect it by not using straws, not smoking, and not spitting.