 Turn your stove to medium heat. Continue stirring constantly as the mixture warms. When the milk is steaming, it has heated enough., When your milk is steaming, you can remove your saucepan from the heat entirely. Pour in the three types of chocolate. Stir so that the chocolate is completely coated. Let it stand for about ten minutes, or until the chocolate is melted., Once the chocolate has been in the mixture for about 10 minutes, you can start whisking. Make sure that you blend all three types of the chocolates together thoroughly. Continue whisking until your chocolate mixture is completely smooth and velvety. There should not be any chunks., For this recipe, an 8-inch pan should be used. This will create blocks of the proper size, which is key to get the hot chocolate to taste right. Line your pan with parchment paper, to keep the chocolate from sticking. Once it’s transferred into the pan, smooth it out as much as you can. Then, pop it into the refrigerator to cool overnight.While the chocolate is still warm, you can add any fun toppings you like. Sprinkle some crushed peppermint, some caramel, or even some mini marshmallows! Just remember, whatever you top the chocolate with will be going in your hot chocolate.
 After your chocolate has solidified in the refrigerator, it’s time to create your blocks. Carefully, turn the pan upside down to place the chocolate on a clean surface. The parchment paper will be handy here! Then, use a sharp knife to cut your chocolate into blocks.Make six lines going down the block, and six going across the block. Cut on those lines to get the proper sized chocolate blocks.
To cut your chocolate most easily, run the blade of your knife under hot water. This will make your cuts smoother and easier.
 After your chocolate is cut into blocks, carefully push wooden lollipop or candy apple sticks into the blocks. Make sure the sticks you choose are sturdy enough to hold the chocolate, and long enough so that it can be used to stir hot milk. You can also press spoons into the chocolate, so that you have a stirring spoon once the chocolate melts!, If you’re serving these at a party, place instructions next to them. If you’re giving them to friends, write a little note to put in the bag with them. Instruct them to place the chocolate into 8 to 10 ounces of hot milk to create delicious hot chocolate.If you’re serving them at a party, place them next to cups and a kettle of warm milk so they can easily create their hot chocolate.
 This is a perfect little holiday gift or party favor. Grab a square of clear cellophane and place your hot chocolate on a stick in the center. Then grab the four corners, and tie them around the stick. You can use some colorful ribbon to tie the cellophane, making the treat look festive and polished., To complete this little gift, add some hot chocolate toppings to the cellophane bag. Consider adding some crushed peppermint, some marshmallows, toffee, or anything else you’d enjoy in your drink! By putting it in the bag rather than in the chocolate, your recipients and guests can choose how much or little to add.