 Traditionally, cat litter is clay-based. Clay is one of the most popular brands of litter on the market and is a simple choice that works for most cats. It absorbs water quickly, making cleaning out urine easy, and is easy to find at most grocery stores. It may make sense to start with a clay-based and see how your cat takes to it.The one downside to clay-based litters it that they can be dusty. If your cat is prone to sneezing or coughing, or has an underlying condition like asthma, stay away from clay-based litters.;
, If you're environmentally conscious, or if your cat does not take to clay-based litter, look for more natural options. Many litters are made from plant-based or recycled materials. Try something like wood pellets, wheat, corncobs, or litter made from recycled materials.The major advantage of these litters is they're more environmentally stable and some cats may respond better to natural litters. If ingested, these litters may be safer than other brands.
However, natural litters tend to be more expensive. If you're on a budget, it may be difficult to keep up with natural litters.
 Silica crystal litters are litters made of synthetic materials. They're good at soaking up urine and dehydrating feces so it's easier to clean. Silica crystal litters make most sense if you're living in a smaller space as they absorb odor very easily.The one downside to silica crystal litters is that many cats dislike the texture. If your cat starts eliminating outside the litter box after you get a silica crystal litter, opt for a different litter type.
Silica crystal litter is also more expensive and non-flushable. If you want a flushable litter, check the label to see if a litter is flushable. In general, natural cat litters tend to be flushable. Plant-based litters made from natural materials like corn and wood are more likely to be flushable than synthetic litters., Trial and error may be necessary to pick a litter that works for your cat. Cats have preferences about their litter and may dislike the texture or feel of a particular brand of litter. If your cat stops using their litter box after you purchase a litter, try a different brand. With some experimentation and patience, you should be able to find a litter your cat will use., A lightweight litter may produce less dust. It can also be easier to carry back from the grocery store if you have a long walk. Some litters are specifically labeled as "lightweight", but some materials are naturally light weight. Corn and grass-based litters tend to be naturally lighter weight than other varieties.Grass-based litters are particularly good at absorbing odor, in addition to being lightweight. They can work great in small places where smell may become a problem.
 Most common litters have special blends made for multi-cat households. If you have multiple cats living in the same house, opt for multi-cat litter. These often help better suppress odor. If your cats are having litter box issues due to sharing a litter box, opt for a multi-cat variety of your chosen litter.

