;
,, In preparation for doing full range waist twists, assess your limits. Stay within those limits as you perform the full range twists.
 Look at images of the spine and the little muscles that control bending and rotation. View images of the individual vertebrae and the nerves they protect.
 Performing just a repetition or two would be like a yoga form. Try several different twisting yoga postures. Otherwise, perform the full range waist twist while standing with spine extended (very upright) at a slow to medium speed.
 Do at least 20 repetitions and as many as several hundred.
 This serves to strengthen and balance your musculature.


Racquet sport players, or people who are not ambidextrous, should concentrate on the weak side by swinging a racquet, aerobic dumbbell or light object held in the non-dominant hand.
Freestyle swimmers should breathe on both sides during the rotations.
Golfers and baseball players should do some switch hitting swings in practice to balance their muscles.
 Do a set with a dowel on your shoulders, a set with your arms swinging, a set with your arms out and rigid, and a set with your hands on your hips.



If you are pursuing a personal record for crunches, do not try a set of high repetition waist twists before your crunches.
Waist twists work the same muscles that are used for side bends and forward bends, so cut back on your waist twist repetitions when you plan to do these exercises.



For high repetition waist twist sets, always start with the basic waist twist. Use impeccable form-- standing very upright-- for at least 20 repetitions. This position will minimize spinal wear and tear and will minimize the possibility of spinal damage.
Vary the exercised groups of muscles in your torso-- back, sides, front.

For the back, do bent-over waist twists or do squat position waist twists.
For the sides, do one-arms swings with a light dumbbell.
To target the front, lean back, with or without support, as you do your waist twists.


Vary your balance and center of gravity.

Shift your weight from side to side and front to back when stationary.
When pressed for time, or as another variation, do waist twists while walking.
, Choose the frequency of this exercise and the number of repetitions based on what your body is saying at the time. Ramp your repetitions and shorten your between set breaks based on your body feedback. Listen carefully to what your body is saying.


When adding repetitions, at a new workout, do it gradually over time.
 Maintain a well-balanced and total exercise program and include waist twists in that exercise routine.

