 An open, spacious room can work just as well as a small closet or a secluded corner. It all depends on what you need to help you focus. A large, empty room can feel spacious and fresh, but a small space can provide you with the comfort of a makeshift womb. Just make sure that whatever space you choose can be set aside for use as a meditation chamber. A space that receives a lot of foot traffic can cause distraction, which is not conducive to a calming meditation chamber.


If you are someone who connects well with nature, you can also create a meditation chamber outside in your backyard or garden. This works best if you live in a quiet neighborhood with little distraction, however.;
, Keep your meditation chamber distinct from the surrounding area.


If you have the good fortune of having a meditation chamber in a room or closet with a door, the problem is already solved for you. Even so, you may want to consider hanging some sheer curtains to let just enough soft light in while blocking out unnecessary distractions from outside.
If you have to share part of a larger room, even if that room is your own private bedroom, specifically set aside your chamber space by creating a boundary. Hang a curtain or put up a wood panel floor screen.
 Cool tone colors like green, blue, or purple work best, especially in pastel shades. White or off-white can also work, and you may also be able to get away with pastel shades of a few warmer tones like tan, blush, or yellow. In general, though, you should stay away from warmer colors since they tend to energize a space rather than calm it. Bold red and orange are especially unbefitting.
 Few people can relax while standing. You can opt to sit in a chair, sit on the floor, or kneel while meditating. Regardless of what you choose, though, you should make sure that your chamber has a place to do it at.


If you prefer sitting in a chair, choose a chair that is both simple and relatively comfortable. A hard metal fold-up chair will probably be too uncomfortable, but a fancy recliner may be too extravagant. A wooden table or desk chair with a cushion might be a good in between option to consider.
If you prefer sitting on the floor or kneeling, keep a cushion or mat in the room. A cushion is especially useful if you plan on sitting, while a mat tends to be the floor covering of choice for people who kneel.
 An altar can really give your chamber a sense if sacredness. You can use just about any flat surface to create an altar, even a windowsill. If you can, though, you may want to consider a small stone slab or low wooden prayer table. You could leave the space empty if you want, but usually, an altar is where you would place items that help you focus during meditation.
 Low, dim lighting is ideal. Bright lights can be distracting and may leave you feeling exposed or out in the open. By contrast, dim lights have a warm, soothing effect that make the chamber feel more personal. If you have a meditation chamber with windows, letting natural daylight filter in through sheer curtains may provide you with all the light you need. If you are meditating in a windowless chamber or at night, consider lining the area with candles. You can place a few on your altar or around the chamber.


You can also create an appropriate ambiance simply by using a dimmer switch to tone down the overhead lighting of the room. Floor lamps or desk lamps with dim settings will work, as well.
 If you plan on meditating in silence, then obviously, a CD player is unnecessary. For many, however, the right music or background noise can make the meditation experience more effective. If you have yet to do so, try filling your meditation chamber with classical or other calm music. If music is too distracting, find a CD of calming sounds to fill your space with. Think babbling brooks, ocean waves, and singing birds.
 A meditation chamber should create a clean sensation, which will be hard to accomplish in a room that is dirtied by piles of clutter. Simple wall decorations can work well. Decorations that have spiritual significance tend to work even better.


Look for sacred pieces. Sacred texts, sayings, talismans, or statues are fairly common.
Make the space personal. Mementos that hold personal significance or photographs of loved ones emphasize that your mediation chamber is a place close to your heart.
Bring in a bit of nature. Flowers, plants, stones, and shells are all elements of the outdoors that often have the potential to soothe people.

