 These animals are used to staying on the ground, so it is better to have a long terrarium than a tall one.
, You can ask a vet or pet shop owner if you're not sure what these are or where you can find them.
 You can also help maintain humidity levels by adding coconut husk, fern tree bark, or orchid bark in with your substrate mix. You can buy the moss at a local pet store. You shouldn't use the moss you find in your backyard as it contains parasites that are potentially dangerous to your frog.
 The reason the dish should be shallow is because these frogs can't swim very well. The dish needs to be big enough to have the frog's whole body in the dish with room to move around.
,,, You can buy a plastic log at a local pet store, but you can also make your own. Go and find a hollow log, soak it in water, cut it in half and take out the middle. Make sure the frog can fit under it and travel through it. It doesn't have to be wide enough or long enough to fill the whole tank. Also make certain that the log was never treated with chemicals of any kind.
, Heating is best supplied by an under tank heater as overhead incandescent bulbs can be too drying. Humidity should be kept at or near 80%–90%).
, This should be set to a 12 hour photoperiod.
 You may wish to choose to buy one of these from be beginning or start off with a 5 gallon (18.9 L). Since they rarely move, tanks larger than 15 gallons (56.8 L) will be unnecessary.;
, The heat pad should be put at the bottom of the cage on the outside so when it is burrowing, the pacman doesn't burn itself.
 The reason for getting the background is, it makes the animal feel more enclosed and feel like it's in the natural environment if you get a background that looks like a rain forest. Another boost to the background is it makes the cage seem more visually appealing to the viewer. Always put the background on the outside of the cage.
 The substrate should be coco fiber or coco husk. These are also known as echo earth or bed a beast. You shouldn't use stones or moss because it may cause impaction that could kill your pacman and you wouldn't want that. This substrate is cheap but needs to be changed monthly and sprayed twice a day.
 The water dish should be big enough for your frog to fit in and move around and still have space. Make sure the dish is shallow because these animals are not very good swimmers and can drown. Make it shallow so your pacman can get in and out of the water dish easily. Dig and put it down into the substrate but make sure the substrate is staying out of the dish. Make sure the water dish doesn't take up too much space though. Remember that frogs don't drink like dogs, they absorb it through their permeable skin.
 The water has to be un chlorinated  or the chemicals in tap water can kill your frog. You can use tap water though if you have some water conditioner meant for reptiles, this water conditioner breaks down the chlorine and chloramines that can kill your frog. Water conditioner can be found at a local pet store.
 This hiding place helps the frog because the frog has a place to get out of the light if it wants to. It also lives in the tank. Know this is when most people make a mistake, they buy something that isn't big enough for the frog to fit in and just waste money. Another one of the mistakes people tend to do will be to go outside and find things to put in the tank as hiding places but you can only do that if you put the thing into boiling water and put it in the oven at three fifty for thirty minutes.
 These fake plants add effects to the cage and also creates more places for the pacman to hide and makes the cage look nicer. You shouldn't use real plants because they don't last that long and some are poisonous to the pacman and can cause your pacman to die.
,,,,,