 Virtual Router is a free, open-source program that will turn your laptop's wireless network card into a wireless hotspot. You don't even need a separate network connection in order to share it.


Avoid a program called Virtual Router Plus. This program is riddled with adware and can compromise your system. Only download Virtual Router from virtualrouter.codeplex.com.
Virtual Router does not work with Windows 10.
 The installer for Virtual Router will begin downloading. The download should only take a few minutes at the most.
 After downloading the program, run it to begin installing Virtual Router. You can find it in your Downloads folder or in your browser's Downloads section.
 You can leave the settings at their defaults.
 You can launch Virtual Router from the Start menu after installing.
 You'll find this program in your Start menu after installing Virtual Router.
 You can change the network name to anything you'd like. This is the name that will appear on other devices in the list of available networks.
 This will help protect your network from unwanted connections. Users on other devices will need to enter this password in order to connect to the network.
 This will display your available network connections.
 Select whichever connection your laptop is receiving internet from in the "Shared Connection" menu. This will ensure that connected devices can access your internet connection.
 This will start your new wireless hotspot, allowing other devices to connect to it.
 Other wireless-capable devices will see your new hotspot in the list of available networks. Select the network and enter the password you created a few steps back. This will allow the device to connect to your computer and access the shared internet connection.


Connected devices will not be able to see your computer's files.
 Since Virtual Router isn't an official program, there are several things that may be causing it to not work for you:Try rebooting your computer, especially if you haven't rebooted since installed Virtual Router.
Make sure you have the latest available drivers for your laptop's wireless adapter. See Find and Update Drivers for detailed instructions.
If you get the "group or resource is not in the correct state to perform the requested operation" error, download and install the hotfix from Microsoft.
Make sure you're not using Windows XP, Vista, or 10. Virtual Router only reliably works on Windows 7 and 8. Windows 7 Starter is not supported.

