 If posting a comment is too difficult or time-consuming, blog readers probably won't comment even if they like your blog and want to interact. Simplify the process as much as possible, by not requiring readers to log in before posting, and by allowing comments to post immediately. Instead of moderating comments before they post, sign up for e-mail alerts so you'll know when you receive a comment. This way, you can still evaluate comments for appropriateness, and simply delete them if they're offensive or inappropriate.;
, When readers post comments, reply quickly so they know you value their input. Reply with more than a simple thank you, if possible. Follow up on the poster's comments, and engage her in a discussion about the topic. Also, highlight especially informative or engaging comments by building subsequent posts around them. If a commenter asks you a question other readers might be interested in, use the question as the basis for a blog post, either by offering your opinion, or by exploring the subject and asking other readers to respond. Often, you can get people to comment on your business blog simply by demonstrating you'll reply back to them.
 Many blog readers are "lurkers," meaning they actively read blogs, but rarely comment or otherwise interact. According to Jakob Nelson of the Nielsen of the Norman Nielsen Group, 90 percent of online community members lurk, with only about 1 percent of users accounting for most of the interaction. Sometimes they're just hesitant or intimidated, because they're unsure of what kind of comments to make or how they'll be received. Or it may not even occur to them that you want comments. Often, simply asking for reader input encourages blog comments. You can ask readers for their opinion on your blog post, or to share similar experiences they've had with the subject.
 Often, if you start a discussion with other bloggers on their sites, they'll be more likely to visit your blog and comment on your posts. Their visitors may also be intrigued by your comments and visit your site, and will likely offer their input on your posts. Choose blogs in your niche, or that attract the type of reader you hope to attract to your site. This helps you tap into an audience already interested in what you have to say. Also, avoid simply posting comments like "Great post!" Comments like this share little about who you are or what you provide, and don't encourage conversation. Only comment if you have something to contribute to the post, whether you're sharing a similar experience or an opposing viewpoint. It's perfectly acceptable in the blogging community to disagree, provided you do it respectfully and with the intent of learning from one another, rather than just creating controversy.

