 Exercise is a great way to boost your serotonin levels.The results are clear: exercise causes an increase in tryptophan, which is a precursor to serotonin. The tryptophan persists well after exercising is finished, suggesting that mood elevation may be present for hours after the exercising has finished.


Work out in at intensity levels with which you are familiar. Consistent serotonin release is linked with exercise that people feel comfortable with, not exercise that pushes people off the edge, an English study has found.If you can't find the time to exercise regularly, try walking or 30 minutes to an hour per day. At the very least, this moderate exercise will help burn calories and boost tryptophan levels, causing an increase in serotonin.
 Light probably helps serotonin synthesis. Research has found a positive correlation between serotonin synthesis and total hours of sunlight during the day.In postmortems of humans, serotonin levels are higher during the summer months than the winter months.Getting a better mood could be as easy as opening the curtains in your otherwise dark room.


Get natural light during the day, not artificial light during the night. Natural, daytime sunlight is better at giving you serotonin than artificial LED, fluorescent, or UV light.Getting artificial light, especially at night, has the added disadvantage of blocking melatonin production, which helps your body get a good night's sleep.
 Several studies show that massage therapy helps cut down the stress hormone cortisol while boosting serotonin levels and increasing dopamine.This double-pronged benefit makes massage particularly valuable.
 Prolonged periods of stress can deplete serotonin levels.Serious and systematic stress can have an impact on the body's ability to produce and synthesize serotonin. This means that you should stay away from stressful situations as much as possible, and find healthy ways to deal with stress once it comes your way.


If confronted with lifestyle stress, try practicing:

Yoga
Meditation
Deep breathing exercises
Self-expression (art)



, Though it may sound corny, reliving happy times may be enough to give your brain a serotonin boost.This may directly increase serotonin levels and keep you from fixating on less happy times, if you are prone to depression. The inability to think of happier times is called "state dependent recall." If you can't think of happier times, try talking to friends or family and looking at old journals or pictures.

