 Before you consider walking your dog, you should always check the forecast. During hot and cold weather, you will need to plan accordingly so that the walk is a safe one for you and your pet. It is also important to check the weather forecast to avoid being caught in a storm or other inclement weather.


You can check the weather on a television, radio, computer or a weather app on your phone.
 During the summer time, you will want to avoid walking your dog in the middle of the day when temperatures are at their highest. Instead, you should walk your dog during the cooler hours of the early morning or late evening. This will help keep you and your dog from being overheated and dehydrated., If you have to walk your dog during the day, be sure to bring extra water to drink. You will want to bring the maximum amount of water recommended for your dog. For example, if your dog weighs 65 pounds (30 kg), be sure to bring at least 65 ounces (2 kg) of water.


Consider having your dog wear a water carrying vest. This will help keep it cool while it walks.
Pack a spray bottle. Because dogs do not sweat, you may want to bring a spray bottle to mist your dog with water while you walk. This will help dissipate heat from your dog’s body. Be sure to spray the top and bottom of your dog to keep it cool., In many locations, pavement and other surfaces can get extremely hot during the summer months. These hot surfaces can burn your dog’s paws. In order to avoid this, consider training your pet to wear boots that are made just for dogs.Your dog can also wear the boots in the winter when it gets cold.
You should be able to find dog boots at your local pet supply store.
 Many older dogs suffer from arthritis, which is aggravated by exposure to cold. If you know that your dog is arthritic, talk to your veterinarian about ways to manage its pain. They may recommend medications or techniques that will relieve the pain of arthritis.Although you need to walk your dog, think about limiting an arthritic dog’s exposure to extreme cold. An arthritic dog is more likely to slip and fall on ice.
 One way of protecting your dog from the cold is to buy it a jacket. A Jacket will help maintain your dog’s core temperature and prevent it from getting too cold. These are particularly useful on shorthaired dogs that do not have a thick coat of hair to keep them warm. If your dog is arthritic, a jacket may also help with any joint pain.If the jacket gets wet, make sure that you dry it before using it again. A wet jacket will make your dog lose body heat quickly.
You can find dog jackets at most pet supply stores.

