 When it comes to bipolar disorder in children, family support is important. The best way you can support your child is through education.


Bipolar disorder is marked by mood swings in which a child moves from manic to depressive phases. During a manic phase, a child may be very silly, energetic, and happy while also having a very short temper. He or she may sleep very little, have difficulty concentrating, and engage in risky behaviors. During a depressive phase, your child may be quiet and withdrawn and cry a lot. He or she may also feel guilty or worthless and have little interest in activities. He or she might complain of aches or pains, as children often lack the vocabulary to explain feelings of sadness and despair.Bipolar disorder comes in a variety of forms. Bipolar Disorder I is generally more intense, with manic episodes lasting up to six days. Bipolar Disorder II involves shorter, less intense manic phases. There are other, milder forms of bipolar disorder that fall outside the two main diagnostic categories. When your child is diagnosed with bipolar disorder, a psychiatrist will explain what category he or she falls into and allow you to ask questions.The best way to learn about your child's condition is talking to your child's doctor or psychiatrist. He or she can recommend reading materials to you that can teach you how to manage the moods of a bipolar child., Start taking daily notes regarding your child's behavior. What was their mood like today? What triggered that mood? How have they been sleeping? What medications are they taking? These are all important elements of their disorder. This will help you see what progress has been made and if any negative side effects are sprouting up in the results of new therapies or medications. Share your observations with doctors and psychiatrist to help alter your child's treatment options for the best results., Your child's teachers must be familiar with your child's disorder. Children with bipolar disorder may have difficulty concentrating in school and interacting with others and teachers should be aware of how to help.


Make time at the beginning of each school year to sit down and talk with new teachers. While understanding of mental illness is on the rise, some people may still be confused or skeptical. Try to explain that bipolar disorder is a biological illness, much like diabetes, and your child needs special considerations.Be as transparent as possible. Keep a list of any considerations the teacher should make. For example, your child may need extra time on tests or quizzes. Understand the teacher may be unable to make all considerations given school policy. You may have to discuss certain needs with a higher authority, like the principle, to assure they are met.Have your child's doctor or psychiatrist write a note. Having a source of authority explain the condition can help your teacher better understand. Some schools may even require a note from a doctor or psychiatrist if special accommodations are needed., Your child will need your help to manage his or her condition. Help explain to them the benefits of therapy and medication. Remind your child when to take this or her meds and make sure you get to appointments on time. Talk to your child about his or her condition throughout treatment and always explain there is not shame in having a mental illness.