 Experience writing for a specific audience is one of the most important skills a copywriter needs to develop. You may have to do work for free at first as a way to prove yourself. For example, if you're involved with a political organization you can volunteer to revamp their Facebook page. You could also write blog posts for a local charity or team up with a freelance graphic designer who needs some web copy written for an ad he's working on., Your portfolio is a collection of your published work you will give to prospective employers. When it comes to copywriting, a solid portfolio is as important as a resume. Start looking for opportunities to publish your work. This way, you'll have material from which you can build a solid portfolio.


Before you get your first job, your portfolio may be a little sparse. That's okay. If you have a strong voice and solid writing skills, you may still get a call back even if you lack experience. Cobble together anything you've written that's been published, no matter how small. You can include an opinion piece for your school's newspaper, for example, or something published on a small scale blog or online magazine. One caveat, however, is that you should strive for marketable content. A list of the best dive bars in your college neighborhood is a better choice for your portfolio than a heartfelt personal essay that was published on a site like The Rumpus.If you have nothing to show, make things up. Choose a product or service and start brainstorming (it’s called “concepting” in the ad business.) Choose something that’s not so easy. Everyone wants to do perfume, liquor, cars, condoms, and beer because everybody already wants them (well, not so much the condoms) and you can do basically anything you want as long as it’s arresting. Try toilet bowl cleaner or socks, shingles: there’s a challenge. Creative directors want to see you can find something fresh and interesting no matter what, because fresh and interesting is the whole game.
Develop an ad, a series of blog posts, some tweets, a TV script, whatever seems like it would get some consumer action. Make it really good. Try it on friends. If you can, get a designer friend to mock it up. But only put the mockup in your portfolio if it’s really good. Bad design kills a concept. Put the finished piece in your portfolio and do another. Three is a minimum. The more you have (up to a point), the more you look like you want it. Creative directors want to see that you want it.
Publishing work is increasingly easy in the digital age. There are a vast variety of websites, catered to many different interests, that take submissions for brief, shareable content. If you're reading a list on a website you enjoy, go over their submission guidelines and consider putting together a piece for them.Cater your portfolio to the job you want. If you want to work in nonprofit, for example, writing an article for your local humane society could be a great addition to your portfolio. If you want to work in the service industry, however, try to publish a piece for an online magazine on something like the best Mexican restaurants in your city.
 For copywriting, no specific degree is required. However, individual jobs may request candidates have a bachelor's degree. It's a good idea to get some kind of degree if you want to go into copywriting.


Courses in journalism, professional writing, and marketing may help with a copy writing degree. Consider a bachelor's degree or minor in one of those fields.If you already have an unrelated degree and want to get into copywriting, consider taking an online course in a relevant field. This may help prepare you for copywriting as a career and give your resume more legitimacy when sending it out to clients and agencies.
While a degree or related coursework can help, an aptitude for writing is the most important requirement for a copywriter. If you have a biology degree, for example, but keep up an active blog, you may just as easily land a copywriting position as a creative writing major. While education can help, keep in mind it's not the most important key to a career in copywriting., Perceptiveness is very important to copywriting as a career. Jobs that require you to work with people may help prep you for a copywriting career. Consider taking an internship or part time job at a marketing or advertising firm. This will allow you to gain insight into how company's attract clients.If you're still in college, a marketing internship can be a great way to kickstart a copywriting career. You could also consider taking a marketing or advertising class.
A retail job could also help bolster your resume, as this entails selling a product and working with people. You could try working a part time job at a popular clothing store at your local mall, for example.
 Copywriters need to understand how good writing looks and sounds. You'll be writing commercially, so your work is not expected to be literary in quality. However, reading works of quality fiction and nonfiction can help you gain better language skills. The works of Ernest Hemingway can be particularly helpful for copywriters. When writing copy, less is always ideal and Hemingway was known for his minimalistic writing style.You should also read actively when simply browsing online content in your free time. For example, when navigating a Facebook pause and consider the language, the length, and the audience the ad is targeting. Take every encounter with advertising, web copy, or other content as a learning experience.
 A blog is actually an incredibly valuable marketing tool when it comes to copywriting. Starting your own blog can showcase your voice and writing skills. If you want to get into copywriting, it's vital you start blogging. You can include a link when messaging potential employers so they can get a feel of your writing.


A blog can have any topic you choose. Some people find it easy to blog about a hobby. For example, if you love baking you can start a baking blog. If you're a knitter, blog about knitting. You can blog in a way that's marketable. You can make lists of products you enjoy using for your hobby, for example, which showcases you ability to advertise a product.Keep your blog creative but professional. Avoid cursing and other bad language. If you choose to post about your personal life, keep it work appropriate. Never complain about an employee, past or present, on your blog.
As you continue to establish yourself in the copywriting game, you can add links to your work and writing samples on your blog.

