 The primary benefit of isabgol is its ability to treat mild to moderate constipation. While it is believed to treat a range of other health troubles, these other uses are not approved for professional labeling purposes.


Isabgol increases the amount of bulk in your stools. This increase in mass promotes movement through the intestines.Moreover, isabgol increases the amount of water in your stools. As a result, the stools become softer and easier to pass.
Most studies suggest that isabgol does contribute an increase in stool weight and bowel movements per day, as well as a decrease in total gut transit time. This product has even been used as an ingredient in bulk laxatives.;
, If a doctor prescribed isabgol to you, follow his or her instructions regarding dosage amount and frequency. If you are using isabgol without being told to do so by a doctor, follow the directions provided on the label.


Usually, you will need to take 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) of isabgol with 8 oz (240 ml) of fluid daily until your constipation passes. The exact dosage may vary depending on age, medical condition, and response to treatment, however.
It is highly recommended that you consult with your doctor before starting treatment with isabgol, no matter what you plan on using it for.
If you have any concerns or questions, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.
 You can usually take isabgol as a powder, tablet, or wafer. No matter which form you take it in, you should always consume the supplement with 8 oz (240 ml) of water or another liquid to prevent choking.


Swallow isabgol tablets with at least 8 oz (240 ml) of water.
If you are using the powder, dissolve the powder in 8 oz (240 ml) of liquid. Add it to the liquid, stir well, and drink immediately. Note that isabgol can plump up and become thick if you allow it to sit and absorb the liquid.
If you are taking isabgol wafers, chew them thoroughly before swallowing. Follow by drinking 8 oz (240 ml) of liquid.
 Mix roughly 2 tsp (10 ml) of isabgol with 3 tsp (15 ml) of fresh curd until well combined. Eat this mixture directly after a meal.You should do this twice daily to see positive results.
The consistency of curds causes the isabgol to react differently in the cut. Instead of softening the stools further, the isabgol adds bulk and helps solidify loose stools.
The combination of curds and isabgol also gives your stomach a good dose of probiotics, which can help heal an underlying cause of diarrhea.
In professional medical settings, this product is commonly used to treat diarrhea in patients who are tube fed.
 If you have some form of irritable bowl syndrome (IBS) or other chronic digestive problems, mix 2 tsp (10 ml) of isabgol in 8 oz (240 ml) of water and drink it immediately. Repeat once daily until your disorder is under control.


You could also drink it with buttermilk or regular milk for a similar effect.
Since isabgol contains both soluble and insoluble fibers, it helps cleanse your stomach more regularly while enhancing your bowels' ability to push waste through quicker.
A healthier, toxin-free stomach and a colon that regularly evacuates waste products will lead to an overall healthier, more regular digestive system within a few weeks.
 Right before you go to sleep for the night, mix 2 tsp (10 ml) of powdered isabgol in warm water until dissolved. Drink the mixture immediately.


The soluble and insoluble fibers in isabgol help clear your bowels. By absorbing water from the rest of the intestines, it isabgol also causes your stools to be softer, making them easier to pass without pain.
Both anal fissures (tear and cracks in the anus) and hemorrhoids (also called "piles") can result due to chronic or acute constipation. If you continue to pass hard stools, these conditions can become more irritated and eventually worsen.
By passing softer stools, your anus does not have to stretch and distort as much. As a result, past injury and trauma has a greater chance to heal.
 If you deal with acid reflux or any other condition resulting from high acidity in the stomach, take 2 tsp (10 ml) of isabgol mixed in 1/2 to 1 cup (120 to 240 ml) of cold milk after each meal.


Both the milk and the isabgol help nullify excess acid.
The husk of the isabgol coats the lining of the stomach, intestines, and lower esophagus. This coating limits the amount of burns and overall damage caused by high stomach acidity.
Isabgol also regulates the amount of stomach acid secreted by the organ. Less stomach acid means less irritation.
 Mix 2 tsp (10 ml) of isabgol in 8 oz (240 ml) of warm water, along with 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) of freshly-squeezed lemon juice. Prepare the mixture before a meal and drink it immediately.


Similarly, you can drink the same mixture as soon as you wake up in the morning.
The bulk produced by isabgol makes you feel fuller, so it is easier to eat less during a meal.
Isabgol is also a colon cleanser, so it can help clean out any waste products clogging up your digestive system and slowing down your metabolism.
 Eat an isabgol wafer once a day immediately after a meal to help your heart health.


Alternatively, you could take the isabgol as soon as you wake up in the morning for similar results.
The fiber content in isabgol is believed t help reduce cholesterol in your system. Since the supplement is also low in fat, it does not contribute anything harmful to cholesterol problems.
Theoretically, isabgol coats the walls of your intestines and helps prevent the blood from absorbing cholesterol from other foods you eat. As a result, the cholesterol levels in your blood drop.
 Dissolve 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) of powdered isabgol into 8 oz (240 ml) of milk or water after every meal. Do this on a regular basis.


When your digestive system processes isabgol, a thick, gel-like substance forms and coats the walls of your intestines. This coating slows down the breakdown and absorption rate of glucose. Since your body will be absorbing glucose more evenly and slowly, your blood sugar is less likely to spike.
When you have diabetes, you should avoid having isabgol with curds. Due to the imbalances in your body, the isabgol is more likely to cause constipation when taken with curds if you have diabetes.

