


Boston's weather has a reputation for unpredictability, so packing with layers in mind is usually a good idea.






Pack for a trip with at least 1 or 2 items of rain gear, such as a slicker, umbrella or waterproof shoes.






If you're planning a summer trip to Boston, bring sunglasses, sun block and perhaps a swimsuit for swimming in a hotel pool or at a Boston beach.






Travel to Boston can be fairly humid, so think about 100% cotton clothing for comfort.;
,


A good plan is packing one outfit for each day.






Plan to do laundry if your trip to Boston will last at least three weeks.






Some clubs have dress codes, so bring one dressy item.






Black is always a good color for dressing up.






Choose multipurpose clothing items for greater versatility and to save space when packing.



Be certain that everything has more than one function.






If it's not on your list, don't pack it.
 Use every space.


Folding takes up too much space in a suitcase and often adds wrinkles to clothing.






Stick shoes, belts and other rigid items in the outer edge of the suitcase.



Trip planning should always include plastic bags, such as Ziplocs. This keeps toiletries from leaking onto clothing. Plastic bags can later be reused for dirty clothes or garbage.
 That way, if the airline loses one suitcase, everyone still has clothing.
 Items you might want to keep close include:


Chewing gum to help your ears if you're flying.






Tickets, travel itinerary and trip planning notes.






Visa or passport if you're coming from outside of the U.S.






Identification, credit cards.






Electronic items.






Prescription medication in original containers.






Jewelry.






Thieves aren't usually tempted by diaper bags, so they can provide a safe place for important items.



Boston is geared toward walking, so you'll probably be doing lots of it.






Charming cobblestone streets can be murder on toes and high heels.







Camera with additional memory.






Batteries or chargers.






If you're coming from outside the U.S., you may need an electrical adapter and plug converter,







