 This spice contains a yellow compound called curcumin that is enriched with antioxidant properties. It makes turmeric versatile and indispensable as each and every organ in the body benefits from this compound. Because of these properties (that are also anti-microbial), it speeds up the healing of wounds and gets your body on track.Turmeric milk or tea can provide relief from cough and colds, arthritis and dental problems. It also powerful in preventing and treating liver and stomach related ailments, and shields the body against cancer and tumors. What's not to like?
It doesn't stop there. Turmeric is consumed on a daily basis in India and is also included in almost every dish. Scientists believe it is the reason why Alzheimer’s affects less than 25% of people in India than that in the US. It has brain-boosting powers too!
There's still more. Turmeric is one spice which is an excellent hormone regulator and can help you avoid succumbing to your food cravings for sugar and carbohydrates. In other words, it'll help prevent weight gain.;
, These are enriched with vitamin C, fiber, potassium, protein, iron, niacin and alkaloids. Sounds powerful, huh? With all these nutrients, these seeds have the ability to reduce LDL cholesterol levels, can aid in reducing the risk of heart attack and other heart related diseases, and even enhance milk production in nursing/lactating mothers owing to the presence of diosgenin.They can also help you lose weight by suppressing appetite, treating indigestion and constipation, and slow down the rate at which sugars are absorbed (this helps diabetes, too). The components saponins and mucilage present in fenugreek prevent and can also flush out any build up of toxins in the body
Let's not forget that the presence of mucilage ensures the seeds provide relief from fever, cough, heart burn and sore throat, too.
 This is an excellent solution for inflammation. It enhances absorption of food by assisting the quick movement of food from the stomach into the small intestine and is a potent blood thinner. This makes it a natural and effective way to prevent strokes because it is equipped to prevent the formation of blood clots.


It also contributes to lowering triglyceride levels, aiding in lower cholesterol and blood pressure.
Zingerone, a powerful antioxidant found in ginger, has very potent brain shielding/protecting properties, too. It's good for your blood and brain.
 The nitrites and nitrates present in fennel seeds enable the blood vessels to relax, thus improving the efficacy of cardiovascular system, and giving your heart a little break. They are also effective in treating stomach related problems, as they are an excellent solution for keeping the gastrointestinal tract clean and clear.


Because of their digestive powers, they are effective in reducing colic in babies and infants. Moms too can find relief from menstrual cramps as those same digestive powers work well with stomach pain.
 Fluctuating and unstable blood pressure and high cholesterol can prove very lethal to the health and functioning of the brain. Thank mother nature, because garlic is potent enough to keep a check on both blood pressure and cholesterol. The wonderful properties of garlic prevent or slow down the aging of the brain, too.The sulfur compounds and plenty of antioxidants present in garlic act responsibly to preserve the health and condition of the brain. It is highly effective in eliminating the cancer cells in the brain as well.
2 to 3 pods every day will do a wonderful job of controlling your blood pressure levels and also treating any problems related to blood pressure -- the natural way.
 Battling a cough? These two spices are the way to go. Cardamom is good for keeping blood pressure under control, can break down the blood clots, and can be effective for clearing the phlegm.Thyme is good for coughs, too.Anise, on the other hand, is effective in treating bronchial symptoms, coughs with phlegm, and also helps to clear congestion in the respiratory tract.
 Oregano consists of compounds such as thymol and carvacrol that are highly effective in fighting the fluctuations in blood pressure. To be specific, oregano is very good in reducing the irregularities in systolic, diastolic and arterial blood pressures.


The ingredients sesaminol and sesamin in sesame have the power to reduce inflammation in the arterial walls. This means your blood flows easier and blood pressure can be controlled and lessened.
 These are spices you definitely want more of you're looking to lose weight. They boost the body's metabolism thus ensuring that excess and redundant body fat gets burnt. The ability of capsaicin (an element of both) to burn the fat helps the body control its LDL (bad) cholesterol, too.Capsaicin can also reduce the risks posed by ulcers by preparing the stomach cells to counter/resist any ulcer inducing bacteria.
Coriander and black pepper has similar metabolism-boosting powers to chili.
 Cumin seeds are rich in thymol, an enzyme that boosts the digestive system in the body, has extraordinary fiber content and amazing laxative properties that can be a cure for constipation. There is also a component called cuminaldehyde present in cumin that can fight cancer and tumors.Cumin is also great for maintaining memory and mental faculties owing to the presence of minerals such as vitamin B6, riboflavin, niacin and zea-xanthin.
Consumption of cumin seeds is the most natural way to cure anemia as cumin seeds are rich in iron, too. They are also rich in potassium which is capable of promoting the flow of fluids in the body, helping to maintain blood pressure., Sage is a spice that is rich in memory enriching compounds called phenols. These phenols prevent or slow down the aging of the brain by breaking down the chemicals that normally lead to aging, preventing them from having any effect.Sage is also effective in controlling the initial symptoms of Alzheimer’s by preventing destruction and exhaustion of the brain chemical acetylcholine which is involved in preserving the normal memory functions of the brain.
 Why? It's practically a wonder spice. It can boost the memory immediately! Include cinnamon in your diet before you go to study or take a test. It can help with weight loss, too.How does it do it? Cinnamon does a great job of stabilizing the sugar and glucose levels in the body. When this spice is combined with a food rich in carbohydrates it ensures that the brain gets a steady dose of glucose instead of the glucose-bombardment carbs normally provide.
Consuming about ½ teaspoon of cinnamon daily can reduce your cholesterol and triglyceride levels by up to 30%.This is a near-to substitute for sugar and can be used in drinks, cereals, desserts and muffins.
 A small amount (as low as 1/10th teaspoon) of saffron daily is enough to keep you away from depression. This spice offers stiff resistance to depression by aiding the brain in the production of serotonin which is known to act as a natural mood booster.


Rosemary should also be taken in moderation. Carnosic acid, a substance found in rosemary, has been found to protect the brain from any damage that might be caused by free radicals. This protection means the risk of Alzheimer’s, stroke and other neurodegenerative diseases can be kept at bay. It is also highly effective in improving concentration and memory when used in aromatherapy.

