 A common cause of issues with automatic transmissions is low fluid levels caused by leaks. Look beneath your vehicle for wet spots. If you find one, touch it with your finger, then wipe your finger on a white sheet of paper to determine what kind of fluid it is by color.Automatic transmission fluid is usually red, or dark red if it is old and has been burned.
Coolant is usually green or orange.
Oil is usually brown or black.
 If you have seen signs of leaking, check your transmission immediately by locating the dip stick for your transmission fluid. Much like an oil dipstick, there will be minimum and full lines clearly shown on the stick. Remove the dipstick and wipe it off, then re-insert it and remove it again to check the fluid levels. If the fluid level is low, adding transmission fluid may resolve the issue you’re having. If you are unsure where to find the transmission fluid dipstick in your vehicle, refer to its owner’s manual for guidance.
Check the transmission fluid levels even if there is no sign of leaking, just in case it was not filled completely when it was last serviced or if it has been burning fluid.
 Look at the fluid on the dipstick and assess the color. Automatic transmission fluid is dark red in color, but it grows darker the longer it is in use. Dark color is not necessarily indicative of an issue unless it is nearly black in color and smells burnt. Conversely, if the color is extremely light or pink, it means water has gotten into the transmission fluid, which is also a serious problem. Draining and flushing your transmission fluid is not always a viable solution, but in some cases it is required.Black or extremely dark red transmission fluid means the transmission has been operating at above its safe temperature range.
Pink transmission fluid means there’s water in the fluid. You will need to drain the transmission and replace the fluid.
The source of the water in your transmission fluid must be identified and repaired or it will occur again.
 With your foot on the brake, shift your vehicle out of park and into reverse or drive. While at a stop, shifting out of park should be nearly instantaneous. Count to yourself as you wait. If your count exceeds three seconds, the transmission is not operating the way it should. This may be indicative of over-worn or low transmission fluid.Sluggish shifting, particularly into drive or reverse, often means the transmission fluid is too low or not performing properly.
If the vehicle won’t shift out of park at all, it could mean that the transmission has internal issues and will need to be serviced or replaced.

