, Aiming is the foremost important factor in judging skill. This is a factor that can hardly be taught. Aiming accurately must be learned through self practice. For snipers, you have to get the "feel for it" and base clicks on intuition, especially for quick scoping. For rifles, aiming for head shots during close range combat is highly essential since that is the quickest way to kill your opponent. Make it a habit to aim for the head every time you use your rifle., The second most important factor in judging skill is movement. Unlike aiming, this can be taught.

In Rush Team, you have 10 stamina bars. Running uses up approximately 1.3 bars/second while jumping depletes 2.5 stamina bars/jump. When you run out of stamina, you will have to wait for the stamina points to recover. Stamina recovers at a rate of 2 bars/second.
 There are two techniques that pros use: bunny hopping and ducking.

Bunny hopping: Bunny hopping requires the user to jump back and forth while aiming in between, usually to the side while facing forwards. Not only does doing so annoy some of your opponents, it will ultimately ensure your survival while allowing you to kill as many enemies as you can. Never shoot while you are jumping. It is highly inaccurate. Instead, jump the aim, then shoot (and repeat).
 The process is the same, except that you are adding in a crouch right after each jump. The benefit to this is that it decreases your chances of getting hit. The downside is that it is harder to control, makes aiming harder, and slows down overall movement. Jump, then aim, crouch and shoot (repeat)., Moving side to side makes it more difficult for enemies to hit you., "Play smart" is the third aspect in determining skill. This is a very broad range that contains a tedious amount of discussion. To simplify things, these are key points to know:

When low on health, retreat and get to a health box. Depending on the map, it may not be safe for you to sit and wait to recover hp. In those cases, you can rely on your teammates to cover your back. Keep track of their positions. If they are near you, pay attention to their movements. If they are killed, you can determine whether or not an enemy is nearby. From this little piece of information, you can decide on what move you will make next.
There is no shame in using your teammates as decoys while you kill steal them from behind.
Getting headshots in FFA matches will grant you an hp bar. Hp bars stack up so it is very important for you to get at least one headshot while having full hp. This will allow you to survive one hit from the m40 sniper.
When using the M40 or AWF sniper during an all weapons match, be aware that you do not have to wait for your (M40)sniper to reload completely before you can use; you can reload one bullet and then switch your weapons back and forth so that the sniper can be used immediately. However, it is recommended that you have at least 3 bullets ready at any given time with the M40. These 2 snipers AWF and the M40 are considerably lighter compared to the other counterparts, which means they also impact less on your movement while handling them at the given point.
When facing multiple enemies, kill the ones that are more of a threat first.
Memorize how many hits it takes to kill with each weapon.
Chose the weapon which you think suits best for you.
 There are wide range of weapons to chose from this game and can impact the way you play your game. This section will break down the categories of weapons to chose from and the advantage and disadvantages of them.


Melee Weapons- Fire Axe and Fire Axe Vip are the dual handed weapons which swing fast and can 1 hit kill your enemy only provided the fact that you don't end up hitting them in their leg. Katana is similar to the Axe but it has a longer range but suffers from slow swings compared to them; this weapon is also 1 hit kill in most of the circumstances. Fists and Butterfly have a quite fast swings where Butterfly being a knife which stabs twice as fast compared to Katana and Fists punching at same speed; but the draw back being their damage output where Butterfly will require 2 hits to down an enemy and same for fists ( but they will down your enemy in 1 hit if you will hit them in their head). Wood Bat and Metal Bat also have really fast swings but they only do about 80% damage so it will require another hit to kill your enemy.

Grenade Types- Normal grenade, Grenade Gold, and Grenade Forest - have a normal fuse and do full damage only if it placed near the blast radius of the enemy.Grenade Blue - being the smaller version of the normal one but you can carry 2, they have shorter fuse, they also they do less damage in their blast radius.Grenade Red has a longer fuse compared to the others and does full damage.

Pistols- Berretta- a pistol which holds 15 rounds in it's magazine and has fairly good RPM and it does about 2 bars of damage. Colt - which holds 10 in it magazine and has slower RPM compared to the Berretta but does more damage on about 2.5-3 bars. Desert Eagle and Eagle Silver - Pistols which holds 7 rounds and does significantly more damage compared at stealing about 5 bars which means 2 hits will down your opponent but this gun has slow RPM. Eagle Silver - Pistol which is very similar compared to the other Eagles but has slightly better RPM. Snub - Pistol which is similar to Eagle but takes away 6 bars of health and holds 5 on it's magazine and also suffers from longer reload. M1911 a pistol which holds 11 in it's magazine and has the highest RPM compared to the other pistols and does about 2 bars of damage.

