 Invite family members or friends to a photo collage party and ask each of them to bring a few photos of your dog. The photos should be analog, printed photographs so you can cut and paste them into a collage. Reflecting on the life of your dog, you can create a group collage that brings together your various memories., Your dog tag was probably one of the first items you purchased for your dog, so it has been around for the whole journey. You can attach it to your keychain and remember your dog every time you open or close a door., If you used a leather dog leash and no longer need it, you could transform it into a leash bracelet. You could take the leash to a leather shop and ask them to make you a customized leash to honor your dog. If you have experience working with leather, you could also consider making a DIY version yourself.If you choose the DIY option, please consider this useful article on making leather bracelets


, If you want to remember your dog forever, you may consider designing a unique tattoo to honor your dog’s life. However, you should remember that tattoos are meant to last a lifetime and can be very difficult to remove. That said, if you like tattoos and want to remember your dog, you might consider getting a tattoo to honor their life.Get a tattoo of your dog’s paw print. Take their print of your dog’s paw with some child’s ink and take it to the tattoo artist to copy.
Get a tattoo of your dog’s face. Ask an artist or friend to draw your dog’s face and bring it to the tattoo artist to copy or integrate into a design.
Get a tattoo of your dog’s favorite place. If you and your dog had a favorite place such as a park or a big tree on a hill, you could ask the tattoo artist to make a tattoo design of this favorite place.
If this is your first tattoo, you should consider whether you want something that will be on your body forever as well as where to place it.
If you are thinking about what kind of dog tattoo to get, you should consider aspects of tattoo design


