 SMS stands for Short Messaging Service. The labelling may be different for different phones. Scroll over to the icon and push your Select or Enter button.
 You should be presented with a blank text on your screen.
 You can either type a phone number into the bar or you can click the first letter of a person in your contact list to scroll through and select.
 Each number on your keypad corresponds to a set of alphabetical letters, which should be labeled on the key. Hitting a number key will type out the first letter that it corresponds with. For example, "2" accesses the letters A, B, and C, so hitting the 2 key once will type out an A. To type a B or C, you have to hit the 2 key twice quickly or three times, respectively.

If you want to type "Hi," for example, hit 4 key twice quickly, pause, and then hit the 4 key three times quickly. The pauses take some getting used to, so you might practice typing some before you get the hang of doing it quickly. If you make a mistake, delete the letters you've mistyped and start over.
 T9 is a program written to guess the word you are trying to spell as you type out the letters, so you only have to hit each number key once per letter. On some older model flip phones, this option will be the default and can be confusing to some first-time texters. Once you get the hang of it, though, it can make texting much faster and easier.

To type "Hi," you can just hit the 4 key twice. T9 will process the possible letters (GHI) and guess that you are trying to write "Hi."
If you choose to use T9, make sure your phone is set to "T9 mode." You should be able to toggle this with the pound or asterisk key on your phone.
Make sure T9 guesses the right word. "Good," "home," and "gone" can all be spelled by pressing 4663, so make sure the word that appears is the word you want. On most phones, press the asterisk or pound key to access an alternate word combination.
 This is typically done by pressing the 0 key. You can then begin typing a new word.

Inserting a space also resets T9, so you can initiate a new string of numbers for a new word.
 You may have noticed that 1 does not correspond to any letters, but instead, can be used to access punctuation marks of all sorts.

Hitting the 1 key once will display a period, and hitting it twice quickly will display a comma. Keep hitting 1 in succession until you find the desired punctuation mark.


If prompted to specify the phone number that you are sending the message to, either directly enter in the message receiver's number OR access "Phonebook" and select the message receiver's number.


