 First-time applicants need to establish their identity. If you have changed your name, then you will need proof of the name change, such as a marriage certificate, divorce decree, or court order. Acceptable documents to establish identity include:State-issued birth certificate (the original or a certified copy)
A valid, unexpired United States Passport or United States Passport Card
Consular Report of Birth Abroad
An out-of-state driver’s license, instruction permit, or identification card that contains a Real ID marking approved by the Department of Homeland Security;
, Examples of documentation include your Social Security Card, a federal income tax return, or an employment pay stub., Because Nevada does not issue driver’s licenses to visitors, you need to establish that you are a resident of Nevada.You must provide 2 of the following documents:A current lease on which the applicant appears as a lessee
Public utility record from the last 60 days
Bank or credit card statement from the last 60 days
Employment check stub from the last 60 days
Most recent tax records or record of assessed or paid property taxes
Documentation of a current mortgage
Other documents listed on the DMV website


, The application is here. You may download it and print it off or complete the application in PDF form by typing in the blue boxes. You will be asked for the following:


Name
Social Security Number
Place of Birth
Address of your primary physical residence and your telephone number
Mother’s maiden name
Height, weight, hair color and eye color
Questions about your driving record in other states, including whether you have ever had your driving privileges revoked

, A driver at least 15 ½ may obtain a permit by presenting proof of identity and passing vision and knowledge tests.A parent or guardian must sign a statement accepting proof of financial responsibility.
 A driver’s manual can be obtained from any DMV office location or can be downloaded from the DMV website.


Visit the DMV website and click on the "Forms" link at the top of your session to find and download a copy of the driver’s manual.
 The course is a total of 30 classroom hours and will require you to complete at least 50 hours of on-hands driving experience, 10 of which must be in darkness.Enroll for a driver’s education course at a public or private high school, or enroll for a course at a DMV-licensed professional driving school.
To access a list of professional driving schools, visit the DMV website and click on "Professional" under the Driving Schools category. You may also call the main DMV office at 775-684-4830.
 The Certificate of Completion is given to you after you have completed the driver’s education course. You must bring this document to the DMV with the other required documents.
 You must complete vision and knowledge tests to receive an instruction permit, which you will use until after you have passed the driving skills test.


If you are under 18 years old and are applying for an instruction permit, you must also obtain a "Beginning Driver Experience Log" from the DMV, which you will be required to fill out each time you drive., The DMV has 16 offices across the state. To see a map of locations, visit here. You can also learn of office locations by calling the main DMV office at 775-684-4830.


The DMV recommends that you do not visit the day after a holiday, as the office is very busy at that time., A driver’s license will cost $41.25; however, if you are aged 65 or older, then the license will cost $17.25..


If you are applying for a new license, there will be an additional testing fee of $25. Each re-test costs $10., Your vision must be 20 over 40 or better to gain full driving privileges; otherwise, you may be denied a license or have driving restrictions.


You may wear your glasses during the exam. However, if you need to use glasses or contact lenses to pass the exam, a notation will be made on your license.If you are 21 or older and currently licensed as a driver, then you only need to take the vision test. No knowledge test or skills test is required.If you are under 21, then you will need to take the vision and knowledge test but not the skills test., The written test is made up of 50 multiple-choice questions. You must have a score of 80 or better to pass the knowledge test.The test is offered in both English and Spanish.An online sample quiz is available here.
 You can schedule an appointment online or over the telephone. You cannot earn a driver’s license as a first-time driver until you have passed the skills test.


Visit the DMV website featured in the Sources section of this article and click on the link for "Online Drive Test Scheduling" to make your appointment.
If you prefer to schedule an appointment over the telephone, call the appropriate number for your area. Las Vegas residents can call 702-486-4368 and select option 3; residents from Reno, Sparks, or Carson City should call 775-684-4368 and select option 6; and residents that live in all other parts of Nevada can call 1-877-368-7828 and select option 6.
 An examiner will be inspecting the car for safety and will check its insurance and registration. The driving test itself will vary depending on instructor, but you should plan on the test covering the following:Finding and using the car’s controls: accelerator, signals, brake, horn, etc.
Releasing the brake
Checking over your shoulder that the way is clear
Using turn signals properly
Properly stopping the vehicle and backing it up
Parking on a hill
Ability to obey traffic signs
Ability to follow the speed limit and obey lane markings
Your overall safety, including your awareness of traffic around you

, You will need to sit and have your picture taken in order to get a license. Your photo must appear on the license itself.
 Your driver’s license will be mailed to you within 10 business days.


If you are under 16 years of age, you will receive an instruction permit until you become 16 years old. At that time, you can then apply for a full driver’s license.
If you want to receive an interim document that gives you full driving privileges before you receive your driver’s license in the mail, you must pay an additional $3 fee.
 If you receive a postcard informing you to renew in person, then you can’t renew using any other renewal method.You may also renew early, if you choose.


If you are upgrading to a Real ID driver’s license, then you must bring proof of identity as well as proof of residency.
A Real ID license will soon be required for boarding aircraft and for accessing federal buildings., If your renewal notice has an access code, then you can renew online. You can do so by visiting this web portal. You have the option of creating an account, although you do not need to.


To get started, enter your driver’s license number and your renewal code in the applicable fields.You may pay by using a major credit card or by using eCheque.
The online services are unavailable for two hours each night (midnight to 2 a.m.)

, You may also renew using a kiosk, provided your renewal notice does not request that you renew in person. You can find a kiosk by visiting this website.


Kiosks charge a $3 processing fee and an additional $1 fee for all other transactions.Kiosks accept check, debt, and major credit cards.If you do not have a Real ID license and want one, you must go to the DMV in person and bring the applicable paperwork., You should only use this option if you cannot renew by internet or through a kiosk. You can use it, for example, if you are a Nevada resident who is temporarily out of state.You will need to download the application.


You may not renew by mail/fax two times in a row, unless you are a member of the military or the dependent of a member.You must visit a physician, optician, optometrist, or driver’s license issuing agency in your area and take a vision test. The person administering the test must report your vision and sign the form.If you who will turn 71 before the expiration of your license, you must also have a physical and obtain a signature from the physician attesting to whether you have a medical condition that would prevent or impair your ability to drive.The physical must occur within 90 days of the submission of the application.
You should probably include a payment authorization slip.

