 The first essential step is giving them attention. If they know they're important to you, you'll become important to them. And remember, listen to what they have to say. Make conversation, don't let them do all the talking.;
, If they seem down, ask them what's the matter. try to give the most helpful advice you possibly can.
 For example, 'Snack Saturday', where you give them each £3 and let them buy whatever treat they want in the store. Or a special Family Fun Night, with board games. However, if you make a big deal to start these and can't keep them going, then they'll become even more of a reason for your kids to drift away. You don't want them thinking you constantly miss their designated special day. It'll seem like you have something more important than them. If you really have to miss a week, change the day. Don't say, 'oh it'll definitely happen next week'.
 When they're coming home from school, make sure they're coming to a clean home, with preparations for dinner beginning. Maybe play some music, make sure the house is warm. If you don't mind maybe a few candles. Try to make sure your home isn't a total bachelor pad. It's not good for children.
 This doesn't mean become immersed in your kids interests. It means show an interest in what they like, but don't copy it. And share some of yours too. Maybe say, 'oh you like that band? Funny I like one just like them' or something to that effect.
 If you are an angry, punishing parent, don't go overboard! Punish them if you need to, but there's never any reason to scream or shout. Your kids need to believe you're a nice person if you want to reconnect.
 It doesn't put them in a bad light, it puts you in a bad light. Even if your ex is talking horribly about you, by not talking about them you seem much nicer to the kids. Not that you want them to hate their other parent.
 Whether you're together or not, you're kids don't want tensions between you two.
 If you are far from your kids, likelihood is their other parent is closer to them. Even if they hate you, they're likely to tell the truth.
 Maybe you became distant after your spouse died. Remember your kids have been hurt from it too, and they won't fully recover until you have. Try to start dating again.
 Let's say they always tell you to stop smoking, or drinking. try to cut it down. It could be the reason you and your children have drifted apart. Children see it as though you are replacing them with your addiction.
 Remember, be nice, interested and not to busy! Make your kids the most important part of your life!

