 Head to the drugstore and look for a toothpaste that specifically advertises whitening properties. These toothpastes can lessen the appearance of surface stains, such as those caused by smoking. Often, they contain chemicals that break down the stains.Ask your dentist for his recommended brand. Be aware that certain toothpastes can heighten the sensitivity of your teeth.;
, In addition to toothpastes, there are other over-the-counter products that can help reduce the appearance of nicotine stains on your teeth. Purchase whitestrips, and follow the directions on the package. You can choose from those that dissolve in your mouth or strips that you remove after a specific period of time. Strips are an effective and inexpensive way to brighten your teeth., There are many items in your home — especially your kitchen —which are natural whitening agents. Lemon juice acts as a natural bleaching agent and can make your teeth appear shiny and clean. Mix some lemon juice with water, and rinse your mouth with this solution.


You can also make a paste using baking powder and strawberries. Just mash two to three berries together with 1/4 teaspoon of baking powder. Use a toothbrush to cover your teeth with the paste. After five minutes, rinse your mouth with water. These ingredients will help to brighten the appearance of your yellow teeth.There are also certain foods to avoid. Too much coffee, cola, and red wine can increase the discoloration that occurs with nicotine use. Try to avoid them., Another common household product that can brighten your teeth is hydrogen peroxide. Dilute a small amount (less than an ounce) of hydrogen peroxide with water and rinse your mouth. After several seconds, spit it out, and thoroughly rinse with water. This solution is an easy way to lighten yellow stains.Another way to create a shiny look to your teeth can be achieved by holding mouthwash in your mouth and then start brushing your teeth, pushing the brush in past your closed lips. In short, you brush your teeth with the mouthwash. The final result can be surprising.
 Nicotine stains are often more difficult to treat than discoloration caused by food or other factors like medication or discoloration following a root canal. Because nicotine stains are so stubborn, it can take longer to reduce their appearance. Be aware that it may take two to three months to see results. Don't give up if you can't see an immediate impact.