 A common symptom of renal dysplasia is abnormalities connected to urination. This can present in a few different ways. For example, your Shih Tzu may urinate often due to the renal dysplasia. Your Shih Tzu's urine may also be extremely pale or have no color at all.Your Shih Tzu is a small dog, so she will not urinate a large amount. However, notice if her urination pattern or amount per urination changes.
Your Shih Tzu may be more difficult to housetrain because of the problems with her kidneys. She may start urinating inside the house or be unable to hold her urine.;
, Because of your Shih Tzu’s improperly working kidneys, you may see some abnormal changes with the way she drinks. She may be extremely thirsty, so she may drink an excessive amount of water. This may cause your Shih Tzu to urinate more.Your Shih Tzu may also suffer from dehydration.
Notice if she starts drinking differently than is normal for her.
 Due to the renal dysplasia, your Shih Tzu may suffer from abdominal problems. She may have a decreased appetite or may lose her appetite altogether. This can lead to weight loss. Your Shih Tzu may also experience vomiting.Your Shih Tzu may also suffer from abdominal pain or abdominal enlargement.
This may be hard to notice because of the long fur on your Shih Tzu. If you suspect that your Shih Tzu has renal dysplasia and is experiencing abdominal problems, do a physical exam on her stomach area to see if there is any enlargement.
 Due to the kidneys not functioning or developing properly, your Shih Tzu may face other problems. For example, your Shih Tzu may have stunted growth or physical development. If the kidneys are not functioning correctly, your Shih Tzu may be lethargic or have less energy than usual.Shih Tzu are toy dogs, which means they will already be small. Ask your vet if there might be a developmental problem with your Shih Tzu's weight and size when you take her to her checkups.
Shih Tzu's are only moderately energetic dogs, so don't worry if she is not jumping up and down all the time. However, if your Shih Tzu's energy level dramatically changes, you may have cause to worry.Your Shih Tzu may also have fluid buildup under the skin due to improperly functioning kidneys.

