 Getting creative and making something like a scrapbook or a photo collage can not only help you take your mind off things, it can also remind you of the good times you've both shared together. When your partner is feeling lonely, they can look at something that you have put the time and effort into and know how much they mean to you.


You don’t have to be crafty to make something for your partner. It is the thought that counts, and your partner will appreciate your efforts.
You could make a mixed CD of songs that are meaningful to your relationship.
If you like to bake, you could make cookies to send in the mail.
 Ask your friends to help you stay busy and avoid obsessing over your long-distance romance. Keep an active social life and fill your calendar with fun (and distracting) things to do.You could say to your friends, “Please let me know of anything you’re up to while Mark is deployed. I need to keep busy!”
Take the initiative and plan events for you and your friends. They don’t have to be anything big. You could say, “Do you want to order pizza and watch a movie with me tomorrow night?”

, You may realize that loneliness hits you at certain times--maybe when you are out with your married couple friends, or when you drive by places that hold happy memories with your partner. Come up with some ways to deal with your loneliness so you can be prepared when it strikes.You could call a friend and catch up with them.
Text your partner and let them know you are thinking about them. You could say, “I was just walking by the park where we had a picnic over the summer. That was a lovely day. Thinking of you!”
You could decide to exercise, clean your apartment, or read a book to take your mind off your loneliness.
Stay engaged with your friends and family. Make plans with them and do things that interest you.
Many people feel lonelier at night. If you happen to be one of them, consider creating a bedtime routine to help reduce anxiety and make you feel more peaceful. You could take a bath, read a book, and send a goodnight text before heading to bed.If the time zones are not too different, then you could even schedule a video chat with your partner to help reduce feelings of loneliness in the evening.
 Don’t put life on hold just because your partner isn’t there for it. Your partner wouldn’t want you to sit at home, pining for their return (if they do, you need to have a conversation about long distance relationship expectations). Time will move much faster if you are out and about instead of waiting by the computer to chat.Use the extra time you may have to better yourself. You could take up a new exercise program, take some classes, or learn a skill you’ve always wanted to have.
Be sure to engage with family and friends who are local as well.
Spend some extra time at school or at work, working to achieve some educational or professional goals.
 Even though you miss your partner, there are no doubt things that you enjoy doing without them around. Take advantage of their absence to pursue your interests that your partner doesn’t necessarily share.For example, you may be a big foodie, while your partner’s idea of exotic cuisine is the Chinese buffet. You could spend your time apart trying new restaurants.
You may love science fiction movies while your partner can’t stand them. Catch up on all the movies you want to see that might otherwise require negotiation.

