

There is a higher risk of heart disease in people who have family members that have previously been diagnosed with the condition. Male family members who develop the condition by 55 and female family members diagnosed by 55 raise the risk for heart disease in children and siblings. Let your doctor know about your family history of heart disease, so you receive all the necessary screenings to detect the beginnings of cardiovascular disease, when treatment is still effective. For example, your doctor may give you medication for high blood pressure or high cholesterol levels, or he may recommend diet and exercise changes to lower your risk factors.



 

;
,

For women in the middle years of life, weight gain is a common occurrence. However, excess pounds increase the likelihood of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Women are typically considered overweight if their waistline exceeds 35 inches (88.9 cm). Even reducing your weight by 10 percent can offer significant health benefits.


There are few factors that increase your odds of developing heart disease like the smoking habit. Tobacco use increases blood pressure and makes blood more prone to clot, which can result in a heart attack or stroke. The combination of smoking and taking birth control pills is even more dangerous for women. When you kick the habit, you decrease your odds of developing heart disease by 50 percent within the first year of quitting.


While too much alcohol can increase blood pressure and triglycerides, one glass of red wine each day is thought to contain enough antioxidants to serve as effective heart disease prevention. You can also get antioxidants from fresh fruits like raspberries and blueberries.


According to the American Heart Association, women can prevent heart disease by committing to a half hour of exercise 5 or 6 days a week. Try a brisk walk, bike ride, swim or dance class. Start with a small goal and commit to it daily, slowly increasing your time and intensity level as your body adjusts to the activity.


Omega-3 fats have been shown to lower cholesterol levels in some patients, which can have a positive impact on heart disease risk as well. Common sources of omega-3 fats are fish like tuna and salmon, walnuts and flax seeds. Supplements are also available.


Many chronic conditions, like diabetes and hypertension, increase the heart disease risk. By getting annual screenings for blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol levels, you can treat potential problems in the early stages before a bigger health problem arises. In some cases, lifestyle changes like a reduced calorie diet and daily exercise are enough to treat these conditions. However, some patients require medication to regulate blood sugar, blood pressure or cholesterol as well.







