 You need plenty of exercise throughout your pregnancy. Walking is a simple low impact/high benefit way to keep labour pains to a minimum. You are strengthening your core muscles, getting fresh air, and burning calories all in one activity. Start small and work your way up.


The National Health Association recommends walking 150 minutes a week during pregnancy.
Certified Nurse Mid-Wife Tekoa King states "When we are in shape we tend to have shorter labour." A shorter and easier labour could mean less pain for the overall experience.;
, Join your local fitness club or swim in a private pool. Low impact water aerobics and a few laps will strengthen core muscles, gently get your heart pumping, and get your blood circulating throughout your body. All of these elements are key for an easier and shorter labour and lessening the severity of contractions.
 Our bodies on average are around 50-60% water. You must replenish yourself as you are growing this new life in your womb. During pregnancy, your blood volume significantly increases, so drink more water than usual during your pregnancy. Water aids in circulation and is essential for every vital organ. It minimizes cramps and helps you keep your body strong.


Dehydration causes muscle cramps and exhaustion. So hydrate throughout your pregnancy. The stronger your body, the higher your level of endurance. Drinking water calms the uterus and reduces contractions., Everyone has favorite comfort foods and certain cravings during pregnancy. Add foods along with your current favorites that pack a nutritional punch. Eat calcium rich foods.


According to Elizabeth Davis, author of Heart & Hands, a Midwife's Guide to Pregnancy and Birth, calcium status greatly affects child birth pain.
Raw grass fed milk is loaded with vitamin B-6 which also aids in reducing morning sickness.
Seven healing foods that naturally reduce pain are: 1. cherries 2. ginger 3. cranberry juice 4. tumeric 5. yogurt 6. mint and 7. edamame.
 Love yourself through every area of life, and especially during this time. Research at the University of Michigan provides scientific evidence of the mind-body connection via study of the placebo effect.Positive thinking elevates your emotions. Your emotional and mental states will dictate how you navigate through the most challenging times of our life. The way your body feels and performs is directly affected by our thought patterns. Your mind and body are intimately connected. You are not just your body, you are not just your mind and you will benefit immensely from treating yourself holistically. All of you needs the love, including the thoughts you think to yourself. So affirm what you'd like to experience in this most beautiful time of your life.

