 The judge should have given you a deadline for completing your community service after sentencing you.You should check to see if you are close to going past the deadline.


If you are, then you should contact your lawyer. They will know what you need to do if you haven’t completed your community service before the deadline.
Generally, you can be arrested for failing to complete community service. You then will have to attend another hearing.;
, You should have a solid reason for not completing your community service on time. For example, you might have entered a drug treatment program to dry out. Find documentation explaining where you have been.
 In some courts, you get at least one automatic extension for completing your community service.However, each court is different, and you won’t know what you should do unless you call the court or the District Attorney’s Office.


You can find the court clerk’s number by looking in your phone book or searching online.
Some District Attorneys have a Community Service Program Office.You can find the phone number by looking on the DA’s website.
Explain your situation and ask what the process is for rescheduling.
 You might have been assigned a probation officer. You should have this person’s name and contact information. Call the officer up and ask what you should do about rescheduling your community service.
 Look through your papers to see if you can find the phone number for the community service organization. If you can’t find anything, then do a quick Internet search. Type in the name of the community service organization and its location.
 As soon as you know that you can’t make your scheduled shift, you should call the organization and try to reschedule. Generally, you should try to give at least 24 hours’ notice., Community service organizations might have strict requirements about not canceling. In this situation, you should explain as best as you can why you missed your scheduled community service.


The organization might terminate your community service for failure to show up on the scheduled date.In this situation, you should contact the court to see how you can get another placement.
 You generally need to make a request for an extension before the deadline for completing your community service has passed.For this reason, you shouldn’t delay if you see the deadline fast approaching.
 If you have completed some but not all of your required community service, then you should get a progress report from the community service organization.This document should state how many hours you have currently completed.
 Some courts might have forms that you can fill out in order to request the extension.You can check with the court clerk or with the Community Service Office at the District Attorney’s Office.


There might not be a form. Instead, you may need to draft a motion and submit it to the court. Ask the court clerk.
Also check if there is a case manager you can call. In some courts, you can get an extension from a case manager instead of filing with the court., Each form is different. However, you generally need to provide the same information, which can help the judge decide whether or not to grant an extension. For example, you will probably be asked for the following:your name
your case number
the name of the judge assigned to your case
how many hours of community service the judge ordered
how many hours you have already completed
your reason for requesting an extension
how much longer you need to complete your community service
your signature

, Look in the form to find the address you should submit it to. If you don’t see an address, then go to the court clerk and ask where to file. Always keep a copy for your records.
 The judge probably can order you to pay a fine for failing to complete community service in time.The judge might also penalize you by increasing the amount of community service you must complete.

