 Start by taking off any cushions you can to make the couch easier to paint.In addition, tape off any areas that you don't want covered in paint, such as wooden legs. Use painters tape to tape off these areas.Keep in mind that you can also do things like pull off the couch skirt to give the couch a different look.Repair any major cracks with glue made for leather or a patch.Other people have had luck using E6000 glue. You will need to sand any repair you make so it is smooth for painting.
 One way to help keep the paint supple and smooth is to create thin layers, particularly if you're using a paint you made yourself. The thin layers will help keep the paint from cracking, as well. Of course, that means more work overall, but the end result will be better.Don't gob large amounts of the paint on the couch at a time. Create very thin, quick-drying layers.
 It will take a number of layers to get your couch covered with paint, so be patient. Start with three layers, but you may need as many as six layers to get the couch covered, along with a bit of touch up.Let the sofa dry completely between coats. The paint should be dry to the touch and not have any shiny spots., As you paint the couch, alternate the way you are painting. That is, on one coat, make your strokes go in one direction. On the next coat, make your strokes go perpendicular to the first layer. This process creates a smoother, stronger surface.Some people find a circular motion works better. Test your pattern in an inconspicuous place first before applying it to the whole couch.
 Once you have the paint on how you'd like, just leave it alone. Let it set for at least two days before you try anything else on it. In fact, do not touch it or move the leather around. Just let it be so the paint has a chance to cure., Some paints can leave the top feeling rough, particularly if they're not made for leather. To alleviate this problem, sand down the paint once it has set. Start with rougher sandpaper and work down to finer paper. Use your hand to decide when the paint is the right texture.Wipe or vacuum any dust that collects as you sand.
 In some cases, a finish can be helpful. For most leather paints, a finish is necessary. Choose from high gloss, semi-gloss, or matte, depending on the look you want for your couch. Apply a layer of the gloss at the end of the project.Some people find that using wax over a homemade paint can add durability and shine. However, it's not absolutely necessary.