 Let your child build tower blocks and other fun sensory and educational structures using her blocks and Lego. Some stores have large Lego blocks for toddlers who are still developing their fine motor skills.
 To make an edible play dough, mix together a cup of flour, a tablespoon of baking soda, and half a cup of water with a pinch of salt.


When it all comes together, divide into 4 equal parts and start tinting with food color of your choice. Make another batch for additional pieces of play dough. You shouldn't encourage your child to eat the play dough, but at least you know it's completely safe if she does.
Edible paints are much the same way. Just mix about a cup of flour with 2 cups of water to make it thick and smooth. Add a tablespoon of cornstarch to thicken the consistency then divide into paper cups and add the food color of your choice.
 You can use regular cardboard for this or you can vamp it up and use a cork board or a wooden board that you can attach to a wall.


If your toddler loves textures, then place different cloths with different textures on the cork board. You can glue small portions of cloth to the board or you can use multicolored plastic embroidery hoops to display different fabrics (smooth, rough, silky, rubbery etc).
You can attach chains that go “clink” when touched; or use scrubbing cloths and brushes to demonstrate rough textures. You can also attach door locks or pad locks that your toddlers can manipulate with the keys to unlock.
Some other ideas for sensory boards include attaching different colored ribbons that your toddler can touch and play with, or different colored felt cloths in the shape of the letters the alphabet.
 Some fun indoor activities can include sorting. Get your child to sort things like her socks or a collection of plastic animal toys into different categories.


She can try matching loose socks with their pairs and then place them in different baskets according to their color (which can be a big help with the laundry!)
She could try sorting the plastic animals according to their type - farm animals in one pile, zoo animals in another, etc.

