 It is always easier to isolate the problem and work in a clean environment. And don't assume that just because your house is clean/dirty, that is the reason you have an infestation. Bed bugs are an epidemic, and they prefer any environment that houses a warm, living body for them to feed on, including your pets. Your personal cleanliness has nothing to do with it. Bed bugs do like to hide in piles of laundry and (surprise) your bed, bed-skirt, and box spring. They will make it into couch cushions and blankets, and whatever else they can. More often than not, though, they are coming in through a hole, opening, or crack somewhere.;
,


Wash any and all exposed clothing, bedding, cushions, fabric, etc. in as hot water as the fabric can stand, and use bleach if possible on anything that you can. A color-safe bleach would be perfect for this purpose.

Vacuum and mop the carpets and floors. Use bleach on the floor first and then use the water/alcohol solution to spray and mop it down after. Wipe down any surfaces that can handle the water/alcohol solution without suffering any damage as a result.
If possible, bag up anything you cannot wash with an airtight seal and put it outside (if you live somewhere that temperatures are freezing, somewhere in the snow, or if not, put it somewhere that may expose them to heat but will not damage the bag or the item you have inside it; you are trying to cut off their air supply and kill them with extreme temperature).
When in doubt, throw it out (if you have the means to do so).
If there's anything else not mentioned yet, just clean it at the very least with very hot water or freezing.
 That is, move it away from the wall(s) so that there is no direct contact between your bed and said wall(s) (and therefore, no longer an easy route to your sweet, succulent blood). Cover the bed in the mattress cover (if you have one), and if your bed is on a frame or raised from the ground in some other fashion and can handle petroleum jelly on its surface, cover the legs of your frame with the petroleum jelly; these insects cannot fly and, therefore, must crawl to whatever height they reach. If there's a good bit of jelly on there, they'll get stuck and you can just wipe them off and reapply as needed. For more tips, see How to Avoid Insect Bites While Sleeping.


Make sure to keep your bed at least 1–2 feet (0.3–0.6 m) away from everything, including the wall, nightstand, books, etc. Your bed should be surrounded by space only.
"Climb Up Insect Interceptor Cups" can be placed beneath beds that have four legs. The cups have two rings inside; the bug climbs into the outer ring, which is coated in a fine dust (don't inhale it) and becomes stuck there permanently, unable to grip on to the slippery sides to climb into the second ring where the leg of your bed is standing.
Make sure the leg of the bed is high enough off the ground so that bed bugs can't reach.
Make sure no bed sheet or comforter ever touches the floor or you will still get bitten and have to wash everything all over again.
Make sure you never put something that was sitting on the floor on the bed if you don't want to wash everything again.
Bed bugs can climb up any object, including the ceiling and fall onto your bed. If your infestation is severe they will even fall down from the ceiling. In that case, it's time to call the exterminator.
 Diatomaceous earth is an ingredient in most of the bombs aimed at bed bugs; the shards of the shell (or powder) are microscopically sharp and puncture the thin, waxy, exoskeletons of these night-feeding demons, causing them to dehydrate and die, our eventual goal in all of this.
 You may also want to consider wearing more clothing when you sleep as well; and ladies, pull your hair back or put it in something because they will crawl into loose hair. Anything you can do to prevent them from getting to you, do it! Although bedbugs don't carry disease, and for most people the bites are unnoticeable, for some they itch, and itch, and itch. Bedbugs can bite you anywhere.
 In fact, the small blood stains left as a result of rolling over and killing them is often what makes a lot of people realize they have a bed bug infestation in the first place. One place you may want to look at closely is in the folds of the bed-skirt. The last of them should die off in about a week, possibly two. But it may happen sooner than that; it all depends on the severity of the infestation., This is to remove any dead bugs lying around and just as another precautionary measure in case there were still some eggs or baby blood-suckers that made it through the initial phase of cleaning. They will get vacuumed up very easily.
 Wash everything where a bed bug can potentially hide.
 You can't wash these in the laundry machine, so wrap them up with a protector that has a bed bug-proof zipper that will seal any existing bed bugs inside and prevent any new ones from crawling in.

