 If you arrive at the conclusion that the only way forward is to uninvite the person, do so with tact. The most courteous method to do this would be in-person. Ask the individual to meet with you in private.


You might invite them out for lunch or coffee and have a chat. Say, “Uncle Tom, how about you and I go out for coffee on Tuesday. I need to talk to you about something.” Choosing a public venue might decrease the odds of your relative becoming irate or making a scene.
If your annoying relative lives out of town, arrange a time to talk with them on the telephone. Avoid uninviting guests through email or social media. Even if it’s hard, do your best to approach the issue in a mature way, which makes it more likely that you will be able to preserve your future relationship with this person., Prepare for the discussion beforehand. Review your pros and cons list. Develop a script to help you guide the conversation and rehearse it before the meeting. When you have the conversation, aim to be polite yet firm. Avoid vague language. Explain your rationale with brief and direct language.


You might say, “I’m glad you chose to meet with me Uncle Tom. This is hard for me to do, but I know it’s the right decision. Since you and Dad are still on bad terms, I think it’s best if you don’t attend the wedding. My fiancee’ and I really want the event to be calm and low-key. And you two haven’t even been able to stay in a room together without arguing lately. I hope you understand.”Chances are, if this person has gotten into trouble for their behavior or have a history of inappropriate conduct, they will probably understand your decision., Saying “I’m sorry” sends the message that you’re wrong and makes it seem like you are taking ownership of their bad behavior. If you are uninviting a relative because of their behavior, don’t feel bad. You aren’t responsible for other adults’ behavior, but you are responsible for the satisfaction of your other guests at the event. If you’re worried that the person will ruin the affair, don’t blame yourself for uninviting them.Instead of saying “I’m sorry” say something along the lines of “I don’t want to hurt your feelings.” This demonstrates that your choice is made with good intentions while still showing that you stand behind your decision.
 There's a possibility that your loved one will react negatively to this situation. Being uninvited can be humiliating to them, so try to be understanding. Don't take anything they say personally. Simply stay calm and offer your support.


You might say, "I can see that you're upset. I didn't intend to hurt you, but I believe this is the best choice."

