 If you are denied, then your insurance company should send you a denial letter. Read it closely. It should tell you why you were denied and also tell you how to appeal.Always follow the appeal process spelled out in your denial letter, even if it conflicts with the information in this article.;
, The reason you were denied will impact how you appeal. For example, you might not have had sufficient medical evidence of your disability. In that situation, you can supplement your record with additional medical records., Your denial letter should also tell you what deadlines you must meet when bringing your appeal. It is very important that you meet all deadlines. For this reason, make a note of the deadline.Write the deadlines on any calendar that you have, even the calendar on your smart phone.
 As soon as you receive your letter, you should request a copy of your claim file. Be sure to put your request in writing. Under federal law, the insurance company must provide you with a copy for free.Your letter could state, “Please send me a complete copy of the claims file. I reserve all of my rights under any applicable coverage under the policies issued. I will notify you at a later date when I intend to appeal.”Mail your request certified mail, return receipt requested.Hold onto the receipt because it serves as proof that your letter was received.
 Contact Human Resources and ask for a copy of the long-term disability policy. Federal law entitles you to a copy for free.If Human Resources doesn’t have a copy—or won’t give you one—then include this request along with your request for a copy of your claim file.
 You must meet your plan’s definition in order to qualify for benefits. Accordingly, you should read the plan to identify how it is defined.For example, your plan might define disability to mean your inability to perform any work.
Others will define disability as an inability to return to your own occupation.
 Go through your claim file and make sure it contains all necessary medical information. If something is missing, you want to add it now. ERISA prohibits you from adding information to your file after you have finished the administrative appeals process. Make sure your record contains the following medical records:physician notes
radiology reports
surgery reports
emergency room records

, You should also ask your doctor to write an opinion about how your disability has affected your mental and physical abilities. Don’t settle for a doctor who is willing to call you “disabled.” Instead, get a doctor to explain the extent of your impairments.If your current doctor is unwilling to provide this report, then find a different doctor who will.
You might benefit from immediately seeing an attorney. A qualified attorney can help you identify doctors who are willing to help, and the attorney can help the doctor draft a top-notch opinion.
 Friends or family can write letters in which they report first-hand observations about your disability. Make sure that they don’t offer a medical opinion since they aren’t qualified to do so. However, they can speak about how the disability has affected your daily life., Vocational experts are trained to identify what kinds of jobs workers can do when they have certain impairments. You could meet with a vocational expert, who can write an expert report identifying what jobs you can perform with your disability.A vocational expert opinion is particularly helpful if your policy defines “disability” as the inability to perform any work (and not simply your current one).
 Another key piece of evidence is your employer’s personnel file on you. This file can contain important information about your inability to perform your job because of the disability. You should ask Human Resources for a copy of the file.


Look for work evaluations. For example, you might have received excellent evaluations up until the point you became disabled. This is some proof that the disability has made your job too difficult for you.
 Your employer can also talk about how the disability has made it impossible for you to continue working. You should ask your employer if they would write a letter for you.You might also want letters from coworkers who have seen you struggle with the disability., You might have also applied for Social Security Disability or for a retirement disability plan. You can submit the decisions of these other agencies if they found that you were disabled.Go through your papers and find any letters approving you for different disability programs.


Each program has a different standard for what qualifies as disabled. For that reason, you don’t automatically qualify for long-term disability simply because you qualify for Social Security. However, a disability determination from the Social Security Administration (or any other agency) is some proof in support that you are disabled.
 There may be other evidence that would be helpful for your case. You should ask your claims agent. For example, you might want to get the following, depending on your circumstances:blood tests
x-rays
MRI
a pain journal, in which you document how the disability has affected you on a daily basis

, Your denial letter should tell you how to appeal. Generally, you will have to write an appeal letter. However, there is no magic language you must include in your appeal letter. Instead, you simply need to make it clear that you are appealing. Include the following information in your letter:An overview of your position.
An explanation of how the evidence shows that you are disabled based upon your policy’s definition.
Identification of all supporting documentation and how it relates to your appeal.
A statement that you will continue on with your appeal until it is approved.
 You should include the evidence in the same envelope as your letter. Gather all of the reports, letters, and medical records and put them in a logical order. You should put them in the same order that you mentioned them in your appeal letter.


Only send copies of everything unless specifically instructed to include originals.
Mail the entire packet certified mail, return receipt requested., A couple of weeks after submitting your appeal, you should call up the insurance company and ask if they have received it. Also ask how your appeal is progressing., When you submit your appeal, someone new at the insurance company will review the information. This person will not be the same person who initially denied you but instead will be someone higher up. Under ERISA, the insurance company has at least 60 days to perform a review.The insurance company should send you a result in the mail. The letter should explain why they are granting your long-term disability or why they are denying you.
 Each state has an agency that oversees the insurance industry in that state. If you think you have been wrongly denied long-term disability, then you can file a complaint with your state’s department.You can find your department by searching online. Type “your state” and “department of insurance” into your favorite web browser.
 If your appeal is rejected, you can appeal to a federal district court. However, you can’t supplement the record with new medical information.If you want to appeal, you should talk with an attorney first.


Depending on your insurance company, you might have the option of bringing two appeals before you appeal to a federal district court. This would be ideal, because you could continue to supplement the record with more medical information., You should get legal help as soon as possible. The appeals process is usually complicated, and insurance companies will take advantage of your lack of familiarity. One missed deadline and you might be forever denied benefits. You can begin by getting referrals to an attorney who specializes in ERISA.Look in the following places:


Ask friends or family. They might have appealed a long-term disability denial and can recommend their lawyer.
Ask another lawyer. You might have used a lawyer to draft a will or to help you buy a house. Call this person up and ask for a referral to an ERISA lawyer.
Use a referral service. Most states have bar associations, which are organizations made up of lawyers. Many of them will provide you with a free referral to one of their members. You can find bar associations here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx.
Look in the phone book. Lawyers still advertise in the Yellow Pages, so you should check whether one advertises as specializing in disability appeals or ERISA.
 Once you have the name of a lawyer, you should call and schedule a consultation. Consultations usually last 15-30 minutes and are an opportunity for you to explain your situation and to get a feel for the lawyer.Also ask how much the lawyer charges for the consultation. Some offer consultations for free. However, others also offer them for a reduced fee.
You shouldn’t hesitate from paying a fee for the consultation. Free consultations might be little more than “meet and greet” situations where the lawyer tries to sell you their services.
 You should prepare for your first meeting by drafting a list of questions. There should be time for you to ask questions after you describe your situation. Think about asking any of the following:How much experience does the lawyer have in long-term disability appeals? How many cases have they handled that are similar to yours?
What is the likely outcome of your appeal?
How much does the lawyer charge? Are they willing to bill for a flat-fee amount, or do they only charge by the hour? Will they offer a “contingency” fee, where they charge no fees upfront but get a percentage of your disability check should you win?
How will you communicate? And who will give you updates about the case—the lawyer or an assistant?

, You should probably hire the lawyer if you liked them and their fee is reasonable. An experienced lawyer can probably gather the necessary evidence faster than you can. They also probably have connections with doctors who can provide expert medical opinions. If you want to hire the lawyer, call them up and ask about next steps.


The lawyer should send you a “fee agreement” or “engagement letter” to sign. This agreement should spell out in detail what the lawyer will do for you and how you will be charged.Read the letter and don’t sign until you agree with everything contained in it.

