 Whenever you plan to be active, it's important to be prepared and to be safe. An essential part of this is making sure you carry your medications with you.


Everyone with COPD will have some sort of emergency medication provided to them. Whether it's an inhaler or an oral medication, these can help relieve symptoms almost immediately.Have your emergency medications and an action plan with you at all times. Keep some in your car, at home, in your purse or briefcase and gym bag.
You should be able to have access to these at all times. Don't leave home without them and definitely do not engage in any sort of activity without having them handy.
 Your action plan should detail what you should do in a variety of situations. Knowing exactly what your symptoms are is an essential part of your action plan.Although you may know other people with COPD, everyone's disease plays out differently.
Be certain you know exactly what your symptoms are and what you should do when you experience them.
Symptoms to be aware of include: wheezing, difficulty breathing, chest tightness, coughing.
If you experience these symptoms while being active, stop all activity and treat symptoms as directed by your physician.
 Exercising with a friend is not only a fun way to be active, but can also help you feel a little safer and more comfortable while you exercise.


Those with COPD may feel nervous, scared or anxious about being active — even with daily or lifestyle activities. A flare up could cause symptoms which can be scary.
To help reduce your anxiety and stress about this, consider asking a friend, family member or co-worker to exercise with you.
Inform them of your condition and give them your action plan so they can help assist you if you experience a flare up of symptoms.
 Since COPD affects your lungs, if you breathe in certain irritants, they can cause a flare up of your symptoms and make breathing very difficult.


When you're exercising, the increase in your heart rate and breathing pace can make you more susceptible to certain lung irritants.
Irritants can include: dust, chemicals, pollution, fumes or cigarette smoke.Do not exercise or be active if you know there are any of these irritants near you. Stay indoors or choose another location to stay active.
 Many times, people with COPD end up needing oxygen to help them breathe more easily. You will need to work closely with your doctor to discuss which oxygen tank fits your needs and how to be active when using it.


Although oxygen tanks can be cumbersome, that doesn't mean you cannot be active. Some are large and will make exercise or activity difficult; however, other tanks are just about 5 pounds, which makes them much more convenient.Consider choosing a larger tank to have when you're at home and also a smaller portable one for when you want to exercise or go out for the day.
Make your oxygen more portable for you as well. Even if you have a larger tank, get a rolling cart, backpack or purse-like case for your oxygen. This makes it much easier to take along with you.
Also be mindful of the tubing. Use a shorter tube when you're going to be out and about. Those longer tubes can get in the way and get caught on objects.

