 One way to keep all the languages you are learning active in your mind is to try translating between them, rather than translating them back to your native language. This can help you to internalize the languages on a deeper level.


Try using the easier languages as a point of reference for the more difficult ones. For example, if you are a native English speaker learning Korean and Spanish, translate your Korean words and phrases into Spanish instead of English.
For an extra challenge, try writing a passage in one language, and then translating it verbally into a different language., Write words and phrases from your different languages on flashcards and mix them together in a deck. Then, quiz yourself. This will help you to practice jumping back and forth between the various languages., Create a new personality for yourself when speaking each language. This will help you keep the languages separate in your mind. Acting on the cliches of different languages can work wonderfully for this. For example, if you are practicing French, you can imagine yourself as very romantic. Try pouting your lips and imitating French actors that you see in films.


Multilingual people often claim that their personality changes with each language that they speak. You may find this to be true for yourself as you play with different personas and learn to express things in a new way in your new language., When possible, try to focus on related content in all languages at one time. This will help your brain to make stronger associations with the words. For example, if you are learning words related to animals in one language, focus on animals in your other languages, too., Several language-learning apps, such as Duolingo and Memrise, allow you to add multiple languages at once. Download an app, and then add all of your languages. This way, when you are on-the-go, you have quick access to a way to study any of the languages you are trying to learn.
 Buy different-colored notebooks, pens, and highlighters for each language that you learn, so that one language is associated with each color. If you are using an online calendar, such as Google Calendar, to schedule your study time, use a different color for each language.