 Rows are a good exercise for strengthening your upper body and your back. If you're not strong enough to do repeated pull-ups or chin-ups, this exercise can help build the same muscles used for that exercise.Find a swing and grab the chains from which it hangs. Pull it back toward you, leaning back with your upper body. You may have to shift your feet a bit until you find a stable position.
Stop when you're at an angle from the ground – the deeper the angle, the more difficult the exercise.
Lean back so that your arms are straight, then pull up towards the swing, bringing your elbows to your side. Extend your arms and do three to five sets of 10 repetitions of this exercise.
To build the right muscles and avoid straining your wrists, focus on pulling from your elbows rather than using your hands.
 Using a swing to suspend your legs as you do knee tucks is a powerful workout for your lower body and your core that also increases your balance and stability since the swing can move freely.Put your toes on the swing and lean forward so that your hands are on the ground in front of the swing. Start in a position where your wrists are roughly in line with your shoulders. You may want to put the tops of your feet instead of your toes on the swing, if the seat of the swing isn't hard.
Pull your knees toward your chest, lifting your hips and pulling the swing itself forward. Then push back to the starting position. Keep your return movement slow and controlled, engaging your entire body.
Do 10 repetitions of this exercise in a set, and try to do between three and five sets.
 Swing-set split squats (also known as lunges) add an element of balance and stability just as knee tucks did. This exercise is efficient at building strength in your legs and glutes.Stand in front of the swing with your back to it, then bend one knee and place the top of your foot or your toes in the seat of the swing. You may have to move around a bit to find your balance and the best footing before you begin.
With your hands on your hips, slowly lower into a squat, keeping your front foot flat. Your back foot may drift back a little.
Stand with a controlled movement to complete the repetition. Do 10 repetitions for one set, then switch and do the other side. Do an even number of sets so you can ensure you're working out both legs evenly.
 Planks are a punishing workout for your core. If you want even more difficulty and strength-building, grip a swing and lower into a plank. The unstable swing makes the exercise more difficult.Make sure your feet are firm on the ground, and don't push the swing out any further than you can reach with stability, or you could end up falling face-first onto the ground.
You also can reverse these by hooking your feet around the swing and planting your hands firmly on the ground.
Check out the surface under the swing set before you start, and make sure it's smooth and firm. If the playground has wood chips, for example, you might find this exercise painful because the chips will dig into your palms if you have your hands on the ground. If you have a long-sleeve shirt on, then try resting your upper body weight on your forearms while your feet are on the swing.

