 Find the Pac-Man 256 app icon on your iOS or Android device. The icon has Pac-Man on it with yellow background. Tap on it.


You can download Pac-Mac 256 for free from the Apple App Store or the Google Play Store.;
, You can either play a Free Game or you can use a Credit. Using a Credit allows you to use Power Ups.


Free Game - You can play the game without using any credits or paying anything. You won’t be able to use any power-ups though. To play for free, tap the “Free Play” button to start playing.
1 Credit - If you want to have power-ups during the game, you can play it by spending 1 credit. You have 6 credits to begin with, and these replenish over time. Tap the “Play” button to start playing with power-ups. You will be deducted 1 credit, which will be replenished in 10 minutes.
 Pac-Man starts at the bottom of the maze. Move him by swiping towards the direction you want him to turn. If you want to move him up, swipe up. If you want to turn him left, swipe left. Pac-Man will start moving. If you have the game sounds on, you can hear the classic chomping sound as Pac-Man moves through the maze.
 The maze is filled with Pac-dots for Pac-Man to eat. Your score is based on the number of dots you eat in the game before getting hit by the glitch or a ghost. Move Pac-Man across the maze and eat as many Pac-dots as possible.
 Avoid the different colored ghosts in the maze. Once you hit one, it’s game over. Different ghosts move and act differently in the maze, so observe their movements and plan your turns.
 Aside from the Pac-dots, there are a few fruits scattered on the maze. These fruits will multiply your scores. When you see one, see if you can eat it without risking getting eaten by ghosts.
 You may also see Power Pellets every so often. These are the white round items, much bigger than the Pac-dots. When you see one, try to eat it. It will give Pac-Man invincibility against the ghosts for a short time. All the ghosts will turn blue and Pac-Man can eat them, which adds to your score. When the ghosts start blinking white, it means the power is ending and you should go back to avoiding ghosts again. You don’t want to be near one when it turns back to their original color.
 The main difference between Free Play and 1 Credit is the use of power-ups. There are various power-ups available in the maze. If you see items not resembling Pac-dots, fruits, or pellet, most likely these are the power-ups. Get Pac-Man to them to give it some special powers for a short duration, much like when it eats a Power Pellet. Some power-ups will allow Pac-Man to shoot lasers at ghosts, while some will temporarily freeze the ghosts in their places.
 Whatever you do, always move up. After a few seconds from starting, the glitch will begin from the bottom and it will eat up the maze. If Pac-Man gets hit by the glitch, it’s game over.
 Continue playing and beat your highest score. The further up the maze you go, the more Pac-dots you can eat, and the more points you get. Eating the fruits and the ghosts will also increase your score. Your score is displayed at the top part of the maze as you play.

