 Leafy greens like kale, spinach, chard, mustard greens, turnip greens, and collards are excellent sources of nutrition. They provide essential vitamins like A, C, E and K as well as calcium, potassium and fiber.

Since they’re very low in carbs and high in nutrients, leafy greens are an essential component of any low-carb diet.

Choose leafy greens that are dark in hue, rather than lighter salad greens like iceberg or romaine lettuce. While lettuce can be tasty, it doesn’t pack the nutritional punch of darker greens.Most leafy greens require a little cooking in order to soften the leaves and make them easier to digest. Try them sauteed, roasted, or slow-cooked with pork or chicken stock to make delectable side dish.;
, Potatoes, carrots, turnips, beets, and other root vegetables are high in carbohydrates, so they shouldn’t be your first choice when you’re picking ingredients for a low-carb diet. However, root vegetables are high in essential nutrients like vitamins A, C and K, so they still have a place on your plate.Eating a few servings of root vegetables per week can be a healthy part of your low-carb lifestyle.


Eat only freshly cooked root vegetables, like roasted or boiled potatoes. Processing root vegetables to make fries and chips strips them of nutrients and leaves mostly starch, fat and salt.Choose red potatoes, blue potatoes or sweet potatoes over white russet potatoes. Russet potatoes (the classic baking potato) have a high glycemic load, meaning they affect your blood sugar in a way that causes weight gain. Other types of potatoes have smaller glycemic loads., A low-carb lifestyle doesn’t have to feel limiting, especially when you’re open to trying new vegetables. Once you get used to making vegetables the most prominent part of your meals, you’ll come to appreciate the nuances in flavor and texture.


Cruciferous vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, and brussels sprouts are excellent roasted with olive oil and salt. Try chopping them into bite-sized pieces and tossing them with your favorite spices before roasting.
Baking winter squash, such as acorn or butternut, is a great way to satisfy your sweet tooth. Dress the squash with melted butter and a sprinkle of cinnamon.
 Since grocery stores carry imported produce all year long, it can be easy to forget that vegetables have seasons. Vegetables taste much better when you eat them while they’re in season at the height of ripeness. You’ll be more likely to stick to your low-carb lifestyle if you choose the tastiest vegetables possible, so check a seasonal produce chart to find out what’s in season in your area.Spring and summer are exciting seasons for the low-carb dieter, since there’s no end to the variety of vegetables available during these times. Look for asparagus, green onions, peas, swiss chard, spinach, arugula, and much more.
If you want to enjoy your favorite vegetables out of season, try buying them in season and freezing or canning them when they’re ripe.
 There are a lot of good reasons to buy your vegetables from a farmer’s market: for starters, they’re less likely to have been treated with pesticides, shipped from a faraway place, and packaged with unappetizing plastic. Produce that is grown organically and stored and packaged minimally is more nutritious.

Find a good local farmer’s market and visit it as much as you an to meet your produce needs.

Consider participating in Community Supported Agriculture (CSA). You can sign up with a local farm to receive seasonal produce once a week. It’s a great way to support a local farm and end up with delicious vegetables.
Farmer’s markets are an excellent place to find vegetables you won’t see in big chain grocery stores. Look for special varieties like mini eggplants, stinging nettles (great for soup and pesto), dandelion greens, ramps, and more.

