 Kidney stones are generally very small and can occur without any symptoms. The symptoms start when the stone gets large enough to block the kidneys, block the ureter (tube leading from the kidneys), or if they have caused an infection. The main symptoms is pain, which is generally:Severe but usually intermittent
Sharp or stabbing
Localized in your back, usually along the edges of your back, in your lower abdomen, or in your groin. The pain placement will depend on where the stone is sitting in your urinary tract.
 Although pain is the most common and consistent symptom, there are other symptoms that you may experience with kidney stones. This will depend on how large the stone is and how it is affecting you. If you experience any of the following, contact your doctor immediately:Nausea
Vomiting
Sweating
Bloody, cloudy, or foul-smelling urine
Fever
Pain while urinating
Extreme pain in your back or lower abdomen that won't go away

, Kidney stones are a very common condition that can affect anyone at any time. This condition affects around 5% of the population at some point in their lifetime, though this number is on the rise. You are most at risk for kidney stones if you are a white male between the ages of 40 and 70 and white women from age 50 to 70.


Despite this high risk, the number of cases of kidney stones in young adult patients has doubled in the last 25 years. Though no clear cause has been discovered, researchers believe this has been caused by obesity, weight issues, or the increase in the consumption of soft drinks.Other risk factors include history of kidney stones in your family, your diet, some medications, taking more than 2 g of vitamin C a day, history of kidney disease, and your ethnic background. White males are three times more likely to get kidney stones than African-American men. , Once you go to the doctor, she will ask you for a history of your symptoms, check you for current symptoms, and take a urine sample. This sample will undergo laboratory analysis to check the levels of minerals and other substances in your urine. Before proceeding with treatment, your doctor will need to confirm that you are suffering from kidney stones and not something else.


Your doctor may also order some imaging techniques, such as x-rays, CT scans, or MRI scans.

