 Humanitarian efforts need all kinds of skill sets, all over the planet. You may already possess a skill or trade that could be extremely helpful to the right cause. Take an inventory of your qualifications and use that to inform your search for a volunteer opportunity. Volunteering to share your expertise can help you make the biggest impact possible with your time and effort.You may want to consider volunteering in the same field you work in. Whether you work on a construction site or in a cubicle, there’s likely an organization in need of your skill set.
Consider what other skills you possess that may be helpful. Skills like leadership, problem solving, or any technical skill are always in high demand.
 There are many different organizations and causes you can choose to volunteer for, so it’s important to find one that you’re passionate about. Volunteering overseas is a significant commitment, so finding a cause that matters to you can help alleviate the stress of leaving your home behind for a short time. Here are some common areas people volunteer their efforts for:Marine Conservation
Wildlife Conservation
Teaching and Education
Community Development
Healthcare
Environmental Conservation

, Once you have identified a cause you’d like to work for, start looking for organizations that support that cause. Many organizations have volunteer programs to help get you placed in an area you can help. Make sure to research the organization you choose to volunteer for extensively, as your safety should be a top priority.Find volunteer opportunities online in databases like the one found here: http://www.workingabroad.com/database

Once you find an organization you like, look for news stories about it online. It can help you to better understand the organization and shed light on any issues the organization has had recently.
 Many organizations have outreach professionals whose job it is to help you plan your volunteer experience. Because each organization has different procedures, these people can walk you through the steps necessary to get on your way to providing aid in a part of the world that needs your help. You can also contact third party organizations like Working Abroad who can help get you started on the right track.Look for contact information on the webpage of the organization you choose.
Ask questions to make sure you have all of your important concerns addressed like how you will travel there, where you will stay and what expenses are involved.
 There are a number of expenses involved in volunteering to work for overseas humanitarian causes. You will likely be responsible for the costs of your transportation to and from the region of the world you volunteer in. Many organizations also charge a program fee to offset the cost of providing you with housing and food during your time abroad. These costs can vary dramatically depending on the organization you volunteer for and the distance you need to travel. You can get a good sense of how much you will need to raise by speaking to a volunteer coordinator within the organization you will be working with.Try using a fundraising website like GoFundMe.com or Classy.org to raise money for your trip.
Ask friends, family and coworkers to help support your cause by donating toward the cost of your trip.
Write letters to business owners or individuals in your community that you think may be willing to help.
 Before leaving for a humanitarian aid trip, it’s important the you plan things thoroughly. Start by making an appointment with your doctor or a travel medicine specialist to receive any immunizations that may be necessary for the region you’re traveling to. Make sure to speak to your volunteer coordinator about what to expect so you can pack the necessary equipment and let your family know your plans.Make sure your coordinator tells you what kind of traveling you can expect to do and in what regions of the world so you can appropriately prepare for the trip.
You may want to have a dental checkup before you leave as well, to ensure your trip is not hindered by an unexpected dental emergency.
 Your humanitarian trip will likely change the way you view the world around you, and it’s important that you share that message with others upon your return. Studies have shown that humanitarian trips can increase reflexive learning about external factors effecting the world as well as internal factors that affect our perception. By sharing your experiences, you can encourage others to take similar trips, thus expanding their perspectives as well.Sharing your experiences can help encourage others to volunteer their time and skills as well.
The experience you gain as a volunteer can also help lead to a career in humanitarian service.

