 The Internet is an amazing tool and it has revolutionized how gay people can connect. Use Tumblr and Twitter to find people with similar interests as you. If you look up to a celebrity who is out, you might have luck meeting gay teens in the comment section of their YouTube or fan page.Be careful when meeting people on the Internet. Never meet someone in person by yourself, unless it’s in a public place.
Share your experiences online. Write about your own coming out, your struggles dating in your school. You may inspire other teens and that may lead to friendship and a relationship down the road.
 If you live in a small town, statistically speaking there are other gay people there, but there are probably not many. By visiting a big city, you open yourself up to way more options, plus, you get to see how diverse the world actually is.If you live close to the city, try going in once a week to take a class and hang out. The more time you spend there, the greater the chance you’ll meet someone.
If you live farther away, plan a vacation with either your family or your friends. Visit traditionally gay neighborhoods, where you’ll sometimes find youth centers that are designed to provide support for gay teenagers.
 There’s no such thing as gay music, but there are bands and singers that have large gay followings. Buy tickets to a show and try to make friends there – you already have the music in common, so right off the bat you have something to talk about.If the band is a local band, make friends with the musicians. Then you’ll have a reason to keep coming back, plus, they’ll be able to introduce you to their own gay friends and fans.
 You are more likely to meet people who you can connect with if you share some of the same interests. Check out the options in your area to find some other queer people who you you will enjoy being around.For example, if you are into reading, look for a book club. If you like soccer, join your school's soccer team or a team that is not affiliated with your school. If you like to go biking, look for a cycling group.

