 On the dashboard, you can scroll through several categories for finding restaurants by criteria: "Discover", "Tables Available Right Now", "Cuisine", "Price", "What's open?". "Discover" lists restaurants of timely or trending categories, such as best father's day restaurants, hottest restaurants in a particular city, and Urbanspoon's top picks. Scroll through the available options in each category horizontally, and tap on one that meets your fancy.;
, Shake will find restaurants for you by city, cuisine, and/or price range. From the dashboard, tap "Shake". Press "Find a Table" and the system will randomize the categories to locate a restaurant with an open table now. Press "Shake" for the system to randomly find a restaurant.


If you know the city, cuisine, and/or price of where you want to eat, set the category to your desired choice and toggle the lock underneath each category. Now when you press "Shake" or "Find a Table" buttons, a locked category will not change.
Press "Filter" for additional options to narrow your search, such as excluding chain restaurants or setting a maximum distance from your current location.
Shake will present a restaurant suggestion for you based on those three criteria. If you are interested in more information about the restaurant, tap the blue arrow next to its name.
 From the dashboard, tap "Nearby." You will be presented with a map of your current location and a list of nearby restaurants in order of distance. Tap the buttons on the bottom horizontal menu if you would like to order the restaurants alphabetically, by popularity, or by price instead.


This option only works if you have allowed Urbanspoon to access your location.
Tapping on the map will maximize the map. You can see all nearby listed restaurants as red pins. Tap on a pin and then the blue arrow for more details about each restaurant. Tap "Minimize Map" in the top right corner to go back to the previous screen.
 From the dashboard, tap "Search. Type in the name of a restaurant you know of and press submit. If the restaurant is listed on Urbanspoon, its page will be pulled up.

