 Drug and alcohol addicts have been shown to miss 10 days of work for each day missed by other employees. Often the first signal that something is wrong is frequent tardiness (especially after lunch) and absence from work.Try keeping a log or making a notation on your calendar.;
, One of the problems with drug use and addiction is that it creates an unpredictable pendulum of functionality. One day, an individual may perform their job well. Another day, they may not be able to. Overall, a person suffering from substance abuse and addiction will make more mistakes than one who is sober. Keep an eye out for inconsistent performance, as well as a propensity for errors.For example, let’s say that most days an employee can deliver a great presentation, but once in a while, they seem overly forgetful, clumsy, and unable to perform.
Make a note of this. Record the date and a few details, but aim to keep your record objective.
 Individuals suffering from substance abuse tend to be emotionally sensitive and extremely defensive. Notice how an individual responds to normal criticism. If they seem to overreact, or perhaps even become paranoid, there may be a problem.Let’s say you approach an employee with some basic notes about their work, such as some changes you’d like them to make to an email. If they become noticeably angry, blow up, or storm away, this could be a negative sign.
This is especially true if this is different from how they responded previously, and if this kind of behavior occurs several times.
Once again, objectively record the date and some details of this type of encounter.
 Individuals suffering from substance abuse (especially at the later stages) will try to withdrawal from any and all activities that do not involve drugs/drinking. Notice if an individual begins to shirk responsibility, fails to take on new tasks, or otherwise lets their normal tasks slide.Notice if you need to continually remind an employee to do simple tasks, such as send out a weekly newsletter.
Notice if other employees seem to be taking on tasks normally handled by the employee in question, such as communicating with clients or leading meetings.

