 Ask your boyfriend how he is doing and listen. Do not ask him questions in preparation to respond instead ask him with the intent to listen. If he is ready to vent to you, give him the opportunity to do so by being an open vessel of support.Use eye contact with small smiles and head nods to indicate that you are listening to your partner.Use words and phrases of positive reinforcements when responding to your boyfriend: “yes”, “I agree”, “I get that completely because…”, etc.
Use questions of clarification to better understand details of what’s being said.
Console him in a loving, positive way. If he’s open to gestures, give him a hug or a kiss to reinforce him being open and vulnerable with you.
 It is easy to flail in the wind and get swept up in a storm when going through personal stresses and struggles. It is important that your boyfriend can look to you as his anchor during his time of need.


Be compassionate. Don’t allow tension to sink the relationship or place stress on the relationship as a whole. Notice the signs of his stress and show compassion towards those emotions.
Keep lines of communication open, even if he chooses not to use them. Make sure that he knows he can talk to you when he’s ready and willing.Don’t forget to take care of yourself while you’re trying to be there for your partner.
 Often times with men, in effort to preserve their manhood and limit their stress levels, it is best to show support simply and through subtleties in lieu of loud, bolder gestures.Make him his favorite meal or treat him to his favorite restaurant without him asking.
Give him a relaxing back massage to help him unwind.
Suggest that he have a night out with his friends versus plans that two of you might have made to attend a movie or an event.
 Get him out of his head by taking him somewhere that gets his mind of his worries or concerns.


Figure out ways to laugh together.
Spend time together with the emphasis being less on talking and more on experiencing one another.
Engage in a physical activity like bowling or playing pool.

