 Making polymer clay bracelets is an easy project, but it does require some special materials. Before you get started, you will need:


Polymer clay in the color(s) of your choice.
A knife to cut the clay, such as a butter knife.
A non-stick cutting board to work on.
An empty can of soda.
A cookie sheet.
Parchment paper.;
, Baking your polymer clay bracelets will set them and make the shapes permanent. To make sure that your oven will be hot and ready to go when you are finished molding your bracelets, take a moment to set your oven to 250 degrees Fahrenheit.If your polymer clay suggests a different baking temperature, then preheat your oven to this temperature.
If you prefer not to bake your bracelets, you can also look for air drying polymer clay., Before you begin forming your clay into bracelets, you will need to get it nice and soft. Knead the clay in your hands for a few minutes or until it feels pliable. To knead the clay, squeeze it in your hands and roll it around the cutting board.
 You can make a polymer clay bracelets that are round, like bangles, or you can make flat cuff bracelets. Decide on the types of shapes you want to create and then begin to form them with the clay.


To make a flat strip for a cuff bracelet, roll the clay into a ball and then begin to form a long tube. Then, flatten the tube. You can use a rolling pin to do this or just flatten it with your hands. You can also use a knife to cut along the edges and make your strip into a long rectangle.
If you want to create a tube shaped bracelet for a bangle, then roll the clay into a ball and then shape it into a long tube. You can also make multiple small tubes and braid them to create a braided bangle., You can make bracelets that are simple strips or tubes of one color clay, or you can add other design elements to the strips or tubes you have created. You can embellish the strip by imprinting a design onto it, or by pressing different pieces of clay onto the strip.


To imprint the clay with a design, you can use a knife or toothpick to carve designs into the surface of the strip. For example, you could carve heart shapes into the bracelet. Or, you could carve words or initials into the strip. You could also use objects to imprint designs in the clay, such as by pressing a shell or coffee bean against the clay to imprint a shape.To add clay shapes to a bracelet, cut out the shapes you want from your other clay, and then gently press the shapes onto the strip. For example, you could use a cookie cutter or butter knife to cut out small triangles and press these onto the strip. Or, you could sue a small cookie cutter to cut out shapes and press those onto the strip. It is okay if they shapes cover the strip or go over the edges.
 When you are satisfied with the design of your clay strips and tubes, fold each of them around the bottom of a cola can to shape them into bracelets. If you are making bangles, then the strips will need to go all the way around the cola can.If you are making cuff bracelets, then you will need to leave about a one to two inch gap between the two ends of the strips.For a cuff bracelet, the gap will need to be wide enough to slip the bracelet over your wrist from the side, so you may want to measure this. Look at your wrist from the side and measure the height.
Cut off any excess clay using a knife.
Press the ends together if you are making bangle bracelets.
Slide the clay off of the soda can to maintain the shape. If the clay does not come off easily, then try wrapping a piece of parchment around the soda can before you wrap the clay around it.
 Line a cookie sheet with a piece of parchment paper that is big enough to cover the surface area you need for your bracelets. Parchment paper will prevent the clay from sticking to your cookie sheet.


If you are using an air drying polymer clay, then follow the instructions on the package for how long you need to let them dry. Plan for at least 24 hours and place them somewhere that they will not be disturbed.
 Place the bracelets in the center rack of your oven. The bracelets will need to bake for at least 25 minutes to make the shape permanent.Make sure that you set a timer before you put them into the oven.


Before you put the bracelet into the oven, ensure that it is preheated to 250 degrees Fahrenheit.
If any of your bracelets are thick tubes, then you may need to bake them for around 30 to 35 minutes.
Check the bracelets now and then while they are baking. If you notice the edges of a bracelet start to turn brown, then take them out of the oven.
 When the time is up, remove the bracelets from the oven. Place the cookie sheet on a potholder or trivet to let it cool. Do not touch the bracelets until they are completely cool! They will still feel soft after you remove them from the oven.When your bracelets are completely cool, then they are ready to wear!
If any of the edges of your bracelets turned brown from over-baking, then you can either paint over these spots or use an nail file to file them away.