 Your lease probably requires that you tell your landlord of any damage to the apartment, so call or stop in as soon as possible. Also, many state laws require that you tell your landlord. Make sure not to forget., Your renters’ insurance policy probably requires that you contact the police about a theft or burglary. Get a copy of the police report to show your insurer.You typically don’t need to call the police if your apartment was damaged by fire, water, or other natural disaster.
 Explain the damage and ask your insurer if it is covered by your policy. For example, some renters’ insurance policies cover fire or water damage but not theft.You’ll need your policy number and details about the damage to your property.
Don’t delay. Many policies require that you report damage within 24-72 hours.
 You need to limit as much damage to your apartment as possible. For example, if you suffered water damage, then move your belongings out of the way so that they don’t get damaged.

Board up or seal any broken windows and secure the door if the lock has been broken., The claims adjuster might need to check your damaged property, so don’t throw it out. If you need to, ask your landlord if you can store damaged items in the basement. For example, water-damaged items might become moldy if you don’t remove them., Go around and identify everything that has been damaged. Take a color photograph. Larger items should be photographed from many different angles. If you want to, you can take a video, which might be easier. Walk through your apartment and point out everything that has been destroyed., Save all receipts if you fix anything. You might also need to stay in a hotel or motel if your apartment is too damaged. Save receipts since you might be able to get reimbursed for that as well., Write down a list of all damaged property. This list will be helpful when you need to complete a claim form.Include the following information in the inventory:


Year purchased
Cost
Serial number (if applicable)

, The adjuster should call soon after you first contact your insurer.Talk to them about the claims process and ask how long the process generally takes., The adjuster or the insurance company should send you a form to fill out. Remember to be as detailed as possible and submit it to the address provided. Include supporting documentation, such as your photographs.Keep a copy for your records.


If you took a video, then ask for an email address where you can send the video file.
 The adjuster might need to look at damaged items if they were valuable. Schedule a time when you know you will be home so you can answer any questions the claims adjuster has.
 If your claim is allowed, you should receive a settlement document. Read it carefully. Check whether you are getting paid for the replacement value or the actual cash value of your damaged property. The replacement value lets you buy a replacement, whereas actual cash value takes into account how old your item was., Unfortunately, your insurer might reject your claim. They should explain the reasons in writing. Common reasons include the following:

The costs of your damage might be less than your deductible. For example, you might have a $1,000 deductible but only $950 in damage. In this situation, you won’t receive any money. However, if you suffer additional losses in the same year, you can count the $950 against your deductible.
Sometimes, your insurer won’t cover a loss because your landlord is responsible. For example, your landlord might have refused to repair a leaky roof, which then caused your water damage.
Your policy also might not cover some damage. For example, renters’ insurance won’t cover flood damage., If you believe your insurer has unfairly denied your claim, you should report them to your state’s insurance department. You can find your state agency at http://www.naic.org/state_web_map.htm. Click on your state for contact information.

You’ll need to complete a form explaining why you disagree with your insurer’s decision. Provide a copy of your insurance policy as well.

