 If you are a morning person, you may find it easy to wake up one hour earlier in the morning to create some extra time for yourself. Set your alarm to one hour earlier than your normal wake up time. Having extra time in the morning can also give you a chance to prepare for the day ahead.If you are not a morning person, you may get yourself used to waking up earlier by adjusting your wake up time gradually. You may start by waking up fifteen minutes early one morning, then thirty minutes early the following morning, and then forty-five minutes early the next morning. Over time, you should be able to wake up every morning one hour earlier.
Make sure that you still get eight hours of sleep a night so you are not sleep deprived during the day. You may adjust your bedtime so you go to sleep earlier to then allow you to wake up earlier and still feel well-rested.;
, You may also shuffle your existing schedule around by giving up one commitment in your day that is not absolutely necessary or “must-do.” This could be in-person meetings that can be done more efficiently through email or a meet up with a friend that you may be willing to skip. Look at your schedule and try to identify commitments that you could give up to make one hour of time for yourself.You may also try to move around existing commitments on your calendar to try to carve out one hour of free time a day. Perhaps you shorten your meeting times so you have a full hour of time at the end of the work day. Or maybe you allot time between two commitments to just be free time for you.
 If you get a full hour for lunch, you may decide to use that time to yourself. Rather than go out with coworkers every day or eat with friends, you may opt for doing something for yourself during your lunch hour. This way, you can also get a break in the middle of your day and spend some time on your own.You may try alternate lunch days where you spend time with coworkers or friends and time alone. This may allow you to feel social and also enjoy your solitude.
 You may also try to set aside time for yourself by leaving your workplace early or getting out of school a bit early. You may need to rearrange your existing schedule so you still get your work done and can leave early. You may get into a new routine where you get into the office earlier. Or you may try to get to school and study in the mornings so that you can then leave earlier at the end of the day., Though you may enjoy spending time with friends and family, you can put aside time for yourself by skipping social gatherings. You may opt for spending time on your own as opposed to socializing with others, especially if you feel you desperately need solitude. Avoid planning social gatherings too often during the week. Spread out your hang outs so you are not committed to going out with others every day.For example, you may designate one day on the weekend as your hang out day and plan to see friends on this day. This may then allow you to carve out one hour of time to yourself during the weekdays.
 If you are a parent with children and you are trying to find an hour of free time, you may consider extending your childcare. You may ask your babysitter to stay an extra hour a day so you can take some time for yourself or arrange for your children to stay in daycare for an extra hour. This may then allow you to take time for yourself amid your busy schedule and caring for your children.

