 Getting an advanced degree (such as a Master's or Doctorate) is a time-consuming and costly choice, so before you enroll, be sure you are making the right choice.


Of all fields of study, computer science is one of the most likely to pay off. Advanced degree holders in computer science are in demand, so if you plan to hunt for a better-paying job and you're willing to move (particularly to a large city), an advanced degree might be a good way to get there.However, if you are happy in your current job and have no desire to look for another position, it might be wise to not pursue another degree. If you need to learn another programming language or further your skills, your current employer might have policies in place to pay for continuing education seminars or other ways for you to further your knowledge without another degree.
 Before starting on a Master's or Doctorate, you need to have a Bachelor's under your belt. It is ideal if the undergraduate degree is in a field related to computer science, mathematics, or another closely related discipline.


However, with high enough grades and test scores, you might be accepted to a graduate program even without having focused on computer science for your bachelor's degree, particularly if you can show a long-standing interest in and aptitude for technology.
 For most graduate schools in the United States, you will have to take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) test, which tests your analytical writing, quantitative, and verbal/reading comprehension skills.For an advanced degree in computer science, you will need to show an aptitude for numbers, so your quantitative score will most likely need to be excellent. High scores in the other areas are also important for competitive program admission, but are likely to be slightly less important than quantitative scores.
For example, at the University of Chicago's Master's in Computer Science program, successful applicants generally score at least in the 50th percentile or above on the verbal section, and in the 80th percentile or above on the quantitative section.
If you're applying to a United States program from overseas, you may also have to take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL).Check with the programs you are interested in to see what you need to score for admission.
 Keep in mind that you may not get into your first choice school, so having a backup plan or applying to several schools is usually a good idea.


An application usually consists of application form, a resume or curriculum vitae, a letter of interest that explains why you think the program is a good fit for you, letters of reference, and a of your undergraduate transcript.
If you plan to start graduate school directly after completing your undergraduate, be sure to plan ahead when you schedule your standardized tests and your applications. Most application cycles begin the fall before you would actually start school (that is, a full year in advance), and most require completed tests to apply. That means you'll have to complete your standardized readiness exams over a year before attending graduate school.

