 Use a pen and ruler to draw the rectangle first. Cut the rectangle out with a pair of scissors or a craft blade.








You can also use foam core. It is the same thing you use for presentation boards.
For a fancy car, paint the cardboard with acrylic paint or cover it with duct tape. Let the paint dry before moving on.;
, Do not include the bendy part of the straw. Use only the smooth, straight part. These will hold the wheels and axles in place.
 Lay the straws across the cardboard widthwise, ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) from each narrow end. Make sure that the straws are straight and parallel to the ends of the cardboard. If they are crooked, your car won't go straight.Secure the straws to the cardboard with tape.









Use sturdy tape, such as duct tape. This way, the straws won't wiggle loose.
Make sure that the tape covers the entire length of each straw.
 Cut the pointy ends off of the wooden skewer first. Next, cut the wooden skewer down to 4 inches (10.16 centimeters). You will need two such pieces. These will make the axles for your car's wheels.









If scissors aren't tough enough for the job, try wire cutters.
If you can't find any wooden skewers, use lollipop sticks instead. Make sure that they roll around easily in the straws.
 You should have about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) sticking out of each end. The wheels will go onto the skewers next. This will allow the axles to rotate freely inside the straws and allow your car to move.
 Use bottle caps or large coins to trace four circles onto a sheet of cardboard. Cut the circles out using a pair of scissors or a craft blade. Make the circles as even as you can.You can also use bottle caps instead of cardboard.
 Poke a hole in the center of each wheel. Slide the wheels onto the ends of the skewers. Make sure that they don't touch the cardboard, or they may get stuck. If the wheels are loose, place a drop of glue or clay on the end of the skewers. Don't worry, this won't stop the wheels from turning.









If you used cardboard of foam core, you should be able to make the holes using a pen, pencil, or a skewer.
If you used bottle caps, you will need to punch the hole using a nail and hammer. Ask an adult to help you.
 Slide a straw into a balloon by 2 inches (5.08 centimeters). Wrap some tape in a tight spiral around the end of the balloon. Extend the tape over the edge so that it covers part of the straw. Make sure that there are no gaps. You want an airtight seal.








Use regular balloon, not a water balloon, noodle, heart, alien, worm, etc.
 Turn the car so that it is standing on its wheels. Place the straw and balloon on top, each facing a narrow end. Make sure that the straw is straight. The balloon should be resting on top of the cardboard and the straw hanging over one of the ends. Tape the straw securely to the cardboard.









It's okay if the straw is hanging over the edge of the car. If it is touching the ground, trim it down.
Don't let the balloon hang over the edge. If you do, it will bump against the ground and stop your car from moving., Blow some air into the balloon through the straw. Pinch the straw shut so that the air doesn't escape. Place the car on a smooth, flat surface. Let go of the straw and watch the car go!








The straw is the back of the car. The balloon is the front.
If the balloon is not holding air, there may be a gap. Wrap some more tape around the end of the balloon.If the balloon still is not holding any air, it might have a hole in it. Get a new balloon.