 In essays or papers, the meaning may need to be clear from the get-go, even if you’re telling an anecdote. For instance, if you are writing about the Civil War, or more specifically, how Lincoln’s personal beliefs affected the Civil War, you could begin with an anecdote about Lincoln.


You could write something like “In 1849, Abraham Lincoln received a patent for a device to keep ships from running onto shore in shallow water.”
This anecdote does two things: it shows Lincoln’s ingenuity, and it provides a fact that not many people know about Lincoln. It also draws interest from the reader.
 In a humorous essay or speech, you can be a little looser with your hook. You can crack a joke, as long as it’s relevant to the writing.


For instance, for something a little silly, if you are talking about relationships and letting people into your life, you could start with a knock-knock joke.
 In newspaper and journalistic writing, a great hook is one that piques the readers’ interests but that leaves them wanting more (so that they read the rest of your story).


You see this technique used in headlines fairly often, such as “Horrific Tragedy Leaves Four Dead”.
This headline piques the reader’s interest, as they are most likely to wonder what the “horrific tragedy” was, and who the people were.
 A novel is going to have a different type of hook than an essay. Novels will have more creative lines, and their meaning may not be apparent in the first reading. Your hook should raise questions in the readers’ minds, drawing the reader into what’s coming up next.


Some famous first lines from novels that are great hooks include: “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times…” (Charles Dickens, A Tale of Two Cities), “Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” (Leo Tolstoy, Anna Karenina), and “They shoot the white girl first.” (Toni Morrison, Paradise).
These lines draw the reader in by creating anticipation about what is going to happen next. How can it be both the best and worst of times? Is this a story about a happy family or an unhappy one? How are happy families all alike? Why did they shoot the “white girl” first? Who shot her?

