 It might be a good idea to use an easily-washable fabric, such as cotton. Something with a pattern would work especially well.
 Fold it in half top-to-bottom first. Next, fold it again, this time left-to-right. Make sure that all of your edges align., Measure 22 inches (56 centimeters), then tie the string to a dressmaker's pen or pencil. Use the string like a compass to draw an arc from top corner to bottom corner., Use a sharp pair of fabric scissors for this, and be sure to cut through all layers of fabric. Unfold the fabric when you are done and discard the scraps (or save them for a future project). You should have a circle., Spread your desired quilted backing fabric on the floor. Place the circle you just out on top of the quilted backing fabric and pin it in place. Use a dressmaker's pen or pencil to trace around the circle.You can match your quilted backing to your main fabric. You can also use a contrasting color instead.
 Remove the pins and the main fabric first. Cut the quilted backing along the lines that you drew using a pair of fabric scissors. Discard the scraps., Place the quilted backing fabric circle right side down. The wrong side should be facing you. Place the main fabric circle wrong side down. The right side should be facing you. Pin the circles together along the edges.You are doing this because you won't be turning the fabric inside out. You will be covering the hem with trim instead.
 Use a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. You can co back over the edges with a zigzag stitch when you are done. Alternatively, you can use an over lock stitch if your sewing machine has that option., The trim needs to be wider than your hem, so at least ¼-inch (0.64-centimeters). Great options include double-fold hem tape, lace, and fringe. Choose a color that coordinates nicely with your fabric. Because of the size of your play mat, a wider trim would look better than a thinner one, but the final choice is up to you.

Pin lace and fringe around the edges of your circle. Overlap the stitching by a little bit.Fold double-fold bias tape around the edges. Make sure that the fabric tucks right into the crease of your bias tape. Fold the ends under by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) to conceal any raw edges. Pin it in place.
 Sew as close to the inner edge as you can, about ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter). Use a thread color that matches your trim. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing so that the stitching doesn't come undone. Be sure to remove the pins as you sew.

If you are using lace or fringe, choose a bobbin color that matches your quilted backing.
If you are using double-fold bias tape, choose a bobbin color that matches your bias tape.

