 Most towns and cities provide their residents with a curbside recycling program that occurs on the same day as garbage day. Trucks come buy and pick up your recyclables, which should be placed in the large blue recycling bin provided by the program. As the most recyclable material, aluminum is always a part of curbside recycling. To get this program going in your community, you should:


Raise the awareness of other members of your community. Pass out flyers discussing why recycling is important and what a curbside recycling program could do for your community. For instance, explain to them that throwing away a single aluminum can, rather than recycling it, is like dumping out six ounces of gasoline.
Talk with leaders of your local government. Explain to them that you and other community members think it is very important that a curbside program gets implemented.Create a petition and get community members to sign in it to show your local government that you are serious.
 Many charities, school classes, and scouting programs pay for projects and services with money earned by recycling items like aluminum. All you have to do is bring a bag of your recyclables--including your aluminum cans--to the organization’s drop off point. To find any organizations that might be running a recycling donation program in your area, check out your community boards, contact local schools, or run an online search.


Habitat for Humanity, which is located in many different regions, often runs a Cans for Habitat program that will happily accept any recyclable donations., In particular, aluminum recycling is really important in the work place. In fact, employees average two and a half canned drinks each day--those cans are all made out of aluminum. Ask your boss to invest in some recycling cans that can be placed next to the trash cans in the office. If she or he is busy but gives you the go ahead, purchase some large trash cans in bright colors and label them as recycling cans. If recycling is really new to your office, send out an email or hang up a flyer next to the recycling bin informing the other employees about what can and cannot go into the recycling bin.

