 This method works best on crochet amigurumi dolls. If your doll is made from cloth, or any other material, you will have to crochet a wig cap for the doll first, follow this method, then attach the wig cap.;
, The thinner the dowel, the tighter the curl will be. Something around 3/8-inch (0.95-centimeter) would be ideal, however. Make sure that you are only wrapping the yarn in a single layer; don't let the yarn overlap.You can also use a knitting needle instead. A size 4, or smaller, would be ideal.Loosen the first and last loops, then tuck the tails ends under them. Tug on the tail ends to tighten the loops. This will keep the yarn from unraveling., Boil some water in a pot or kettle first, then pour it over the yarn. Use a towel to gently blot any excess water. You want it to be soaked, but not dripping., Make sure that the ends of the dowels resting on the rim. Do not let the rest of the dowel or the yarn touch the actual baking sheet. If you let the yarn touch the sheet, it may not dry properly. The hot metal may also scorch the yarn., Preheat your oven to the lowest temperature possible, about 200 to 250°F (94 to 122°C) first. Once it reaches the right temperature, stick the yarn into the oven. Let it bake until it is completely dry, about minutes.Check on the every 15 minutes, especially if it is acrylic, so that it doesn't melt.If you are using a "soft" variety of yarn, raise the temperature to 300F, and bake it for 55 minutes instead., This will take about 10 minutes. Once the yarn has cooled, gently unravel it from the dowel.As you unwrap it, it should hold its curl.
 Choose a book, folder, CD case, or even a piece of cardboard that is about twice the length you want the hair to be. Wrap the curled yarn around the base object tightly, so that the strands become straight. Keep wrapping until you run out of yarn.
 When you wrapped your yarn around your base object, you will have two folded edges. Choose one, and cut along it. Slid the yarn off of the base object, but keep it folded. The fold will be your guide for the next step.


Consider separating the yarn into individual strands. You will get about 4 strands from each piece of yarn. Treat these four strands as a single strand for the rest of this method., Push your crochet hook through a stitch on your doll's hairline. Catch the curled strand by the middle. Pull a loop back through the stitch with your hook. Pull the tails through loop, then tug on them gently to tighten the loop.If you are using a crocheted wig cap, then push the hook through a stitch on the wig cap.
 Start around the outer edge, where the hairline is, and work your way towards the center in rings. You don't have to insert the yarn into every stitch, especially if your doll is very small.

