 Shocking your water requires proper ventilation. Your water will need air to breath. Go ahead and take the whole cover off and move it away. The chemicals and fumes can be hazardous to so its best for everyone to stay away. Let everyone know not to go into the hot tub until you sure its safe.
 You don't need to worry about water hardness at this point because that takes a lot more time to deal with. Focus on total alkalinity and pH levels. They will have the most impact on the shock's effectiveness.
 Although the jets will mix the oxidizer with the water quickly, they should be turned off. The jets will actually cause the oxidizer to work less effectively. This happens because the oxidizer will evaporate too quickly the more air is mixed into the water. Leaving the jets off lets the oxidizer distribute naturally in the water.
 You will need to consult your package on the proper use of the oxidizer. If a lot of water has evaporated, bring the level back up to its normal level before shocking. Too much shock treatment can damage your hot tub.


If you are measuring strong chemicals like lithium chlorine by the tablespoon, consider using a dedicated measuring container. Even if you use a tablespoon from the kitchen, make sure its a cheap one and leave it with the hot tub supplies.
 This will depend on the type of oxidizer you choose to use. Follow the directions on the box closely as the oxidizer may cause chemical burns if not handled properly. Both liquids, tablets, and powders should be placed into the water as close to the water's surface as possible. Splashing can be very harmful especially to your eyes.


You may want to limit your shock treatments to times when no one is around. This way your child doesn't trip you while you are measuring out chemicals causing you to spill them on the their face. This also keeps people from nagging you about when the hot tub will be ready.
 Ideally you would want to shock the tub in the evening so that you could let it sit overnight.Check the total alkalinity, pH, and bromine levels before entering the tub. These can be greatly affected by shock cycle. Adjust total alkalinity and pH accordingly. Wait until bromine levels drop below 10ppm before entering.

