 Connect it to an electric outlet and press the Power button either on the TV remote or on the television unit itself. Wait a few seconds for it to start up and show its home screen.
 Press the “Menu” button on the remote control to view the television’s customizable options. A Smart TV’s Menu/Settings screen looks pretty much the same as the any Android smartphone or tablet. If you already have been using an Android, then navigating through the TV’s settings (using the arrow keys on the TV remote) should be really easy., Select “Network/Wi-Fi” from the Menu screen and choose from the list of available Wi-Fi connections displayed on the screen you’d like to connect to.

If the connection you’re trying to connect to requires a password, a pop-up menu with an on-screen keyboard will appear on the TV screen. You can type the password by using the arrow keys for moving around the keyboard and the “Enter” button for selecting the characters.
You only have to do Steps 2 and 3 for the first time. If you’ve already connected your Smart TV to your Wi-Fi network before, then the TV should automatically connect to it.
 Tap the Google Play Store icon from your phone’s home screen to launch the application.


Google Play Store is where you can download and install software programs specifically designed for devices using the Android operating system.
 Tap the magnifying glass icon on the upper righthand corner of the screen and enter “Remote Control for TV.” Tap the “Enter” button on your phone or tablet’s keyboard to start searching.


The app will display a list of result related to your query. Select the one that was developed by “SydneyApps”.
 Tap the “Install” button right next to the name of the application to instantly download and install it on your device.


The app’s icon will appear on the home screen once it’s successfully installed.
 Tap the Remote Control for TV’s icon from your device’s home screen to open the application. It will search for any Smart TV connected to your Wi-Fi network and display it on your phone’s screen. All you need to do is to tap the TV you want to select it from the list and you’re good to go.
 On the app’s screen, you’ll see the buttons for controlling the volume, switching channels, opening the TV’s menu, and the Power button. Tap these buttons from your phone’s screen to control your Smart TV.


Once you’re done using your phone as your TV’s remote, simply tap the “Back” button of your phone to exit.

