 While you wait for your meal to finish cooking, serve some simple appetizers. These should be light and not overly filling. The goal is to avoid getting full on appetizers while trying to not get hangry and kill the mood. A light tossed salad makes an excellent appetizer.
You might also try bruschetta or hummus and pita chips.
Remember to keep it simple. Your appetizers should not overshadow your main dish.
Be sure to plan ahead and avoid serving anything that your date might not like. Pay attention to things that they have ordered at restaurants. You can also ask them what they like. If you noticed that they like shellfish, try asking “what would think about having shrimp cocktail for dinner?”;
, Your main dish should be something that is not so heavy that it makes you lethargic yet so light that you are still hungry. You should ideally be full but not uncomfortably so. Consider a dish that shows off your cooking skills, yet requires little preparation. If you are hoping that the night takes a romantic turn, try including aphrodisiacs like oysters, almonds and basil.Avoid cooking difficult to eat or messy foods. Soups and pastas are a dangerous choice. You want to focus on the conversation and your date, not avoiding stains.
Try not to use too much garlic, onion or other foods with strong odors. If things get more romantic later, your smelly breath might be a turn off.
A sautéed meat and vegetable dish is an easy and safe dish to serve on a dinner date.
Be sure to plan ahead and cook something that you know your date will enjoy.
 Like the other parts of the meal, the dessert should be a light dish that is not overly filling. A light pastry or gelato with some fruit and berries are excellent after dinner treats. Try incorporating aphrodisiacs like strawberries and chocolate into the dessert. Avoid messy desserts. Syrups and sauces can make a huge sticky mess.
Be sure to prepare a dessert that you know your date enjoys.
 Before the meal, offer your date a drink. Depending on your and your date’s preferences, this can be an alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverage. After the meal, you may want to offer your date some hot tea or coffee after dessert. This will help you stave off being drowsy after eating. However, if things are feeling more romantic, you may also offer another round of cocktails or wine. Play it by ear and see what the moment requires.Try to figure out ahead of time what your date enjoys drinking so that you can have it waiting for them. Pay attention to what they order at bars and restaurants, or you can just ask them what their favorite drink is.
Your meal choice will help determine what type of wine, if any, you will serve. Red wines go well with red meats, while white wines pair well with lighter meats and vegetarian meals.
Food and drink combinations vary, so you can also try pairing beer or liquor with your meal., Before your date arrives, be sure to thoroughly clean your home or apartment. A dingy and cluttered living space will kill the mood almost immediately. Vacuum your carpets, dust, and put away any clutter. This also applies if you are planning a date night with your partner who you live with. Having a clean space will help everyone feel less stressed and more romantic.
 Before your date arrives, or you and your partner begin cooking, try to look your best. This can include taking a shower, shaving, putting on makeup, wearing nice clothes, or whatever it is you need to do to feel good about yourself. Putting your best foot forward tells your date that you care about them.You might also want to get a haircut before the date. This might give you a little extra confidence.
Do not overdo it. Make sure that you look nice and are comfortable with your attire. Wearing things that make you uncomfortable will be distracting and kill the mood.
 Serve the meal on your nicest dinnerware and use your best cutlery. This will demonstrate that you value the meal and your date/partner’s presence. The goal is to make the person you are with, as well as yourself, feel special. Avoid using paper or plastic dinnerware. This will make the dinner seem thrown together at the last second.
 Clear off your dining table and set it with a table cloth and napkins. You will want to create a clean and intimate space for you and your date. It is important that you are able to look across at each other without any distractions. You may decide to set the table with some flowers to help the mood. However, do not place them so that it is difficult to see your date.
 Try dimming the lights in the space where you will be eating. You can also light a few candles to help set the mood. The dimmed lights and candle will help create an intimate setting for you and your date. Avoid using any scented candles. These might distract from the food you are serving.
Be sure to put out the candles when you are done with them. You want to kindle a fire in each other’s hearts, not the dining room.
 Turning on some light music in the background is a great way to set the mood. Play music that is romantic and that you both enjoy. If you are early in a relationship, this will kill any dead silence. It might also get the two of you dancing. Avoid playing the radio. Advertisements can be a loud and obnoxious distraction.
Try creating a Pandora station or a Spotify playlist of romantic music. Try Kenny G., Adele or Al Green.
 Before your dinner date, make sure that you have everything that you need for the meal. Figure out what foods your date does and does not like. Review your recipes and make sure that you have all of the necessary ingredients. Prepare some of the meal beforehand so that you are not rushed when your date arrives or your dinner begins. You want to make sure that you have enough attention for your date.Cooking a meal that your guest does not like is an easy way to kill the mood.
Make sure that you do not cook something that they are allergic to. Your date probably will not find a trip to the ER very endearing.
 Do not chew with your mouth open, talk with a mouth full of food, or pass gas at the table. Unless you, or your date, are from a culture where these practices are considered polite, be sure to avoid them. Proper table etiquette demonstrates to your date that you are considerate of other people. Put your napkin in your lap, not in your shirt.
Turn of the TV. Unless watching a movie is part of your dinner plan, the TV should be off.
 Talk with your date during the dinner and try to avoid any long silent pauses. Ask them about their work, family, school, or hobbies. If your dinner date is with your partner, you should have already developed a rapport but it is important to work on your communication. However, if you are new in a relationship, maintaining the steady flow of conversation will help you build a new connection.Ask your date things like “how long have you worked at Costco” or “Skydiving is quite the hobby. How did you get into that?”
If you are nervous about what to talk about, prepare a list of topics to discuss during the meal.
Find things to talk about that you and your date have in common. For example, if you both like a certain film genre, ask your date things like “what’s your favorite movie?” and “who is your favorite director?”

, Although getting a nice buzz will help set the mood, getting drunk might be a good way to derail the romance train. If you are going to serve alcohol, try to avoid getting drunk. It is unlikely that your date will be terrible amused by this. Show some self-control and do not overdo it. 