 When you are on a slope, you need to come to a complete stop using either the brake pedal or the handbrake. This holds true whether you’re facing up a slope or down a slope.

Some drivers prefer to use the handbrake, because it frees up their right foot to use on the gas pedal when they intend to start driving again.;
, Many manual cars have hill start assist, which will help keep your car from rolling backward when you are stopped on a hill. It will also help when you try to start from a complete stop as well. If you have hill-start assist in your car, it will automatically work so you do not have to press any buttons.Hill-start sensors in the car automatically detect when your vehicle is on an incline. The hill start assist maintains pressure on the brake pedal for a set period of time to help you while you’re moving your foot from the brakes to the gas pedal.
Hill-start assist does not increase your traction, so if you are in inclement weather or the road is slippery, you may still start to roll backwards.
 When it is time for you to begin moving again, shift into first gear and step on the accelerator pedal.









Continue pressing on the accelerator until the engine spins at about 3000 RPM.
 At this point, you’ll feel the front of the car lift slightly since the clutch is taking on the weight of the car., Gradually release the handbrake as you lift the clutch slightly.As the handbrake disengages and releases, the car should begin to move forward.
 When you hear the sounds of the engine start to fade, continue applying more and more throttle. Now, you’re able to start driving up the hill again without rolling backwards.

Make sure to release the clutch until it is fully engaged.
 If your handbrake doesn't work, use the heel of your right foot to hold down the brake pedal while you use your toes to work the accelerator. You will release the brake pedal instead of the handbrake as you’re releasing the clutch.









If your handbrake doesn’t work, take your car to a mechanic and have it fixed. Relying on the transmission to hold the car causes wear and tear and can have adverse effects on your engine.

