 If the school dance calls for formal wear, opt for a dress, formal skirt and top, or dress pants and nice blouse. Choose a full-length gown for an extra-formal look, or a knee-length dress or skirt for something more semi-formal.


If you’re going to the dance with a date, coordinate with them first to see if part of their outfit can match yours. If you go with a boy, their shirt, tie, or vest/cumberbund could match your dress, top, or accessories.
 Pick a pair of heels or flats that are comfortable enough for dancing and being on your feet for several hours. Try matching your shoes to your dress or accessories, or pick gold or silver shoes to match the type of metal of your jewelry.


Pay attention to dress code guidelines for shoes. There could be a restriction on the height of high heels.
 Choose accessories to complement your outfit. Pick a nice purse or clutch in the same color as your outfit or shoes, or in the same neutral silver or gold as your jewelry. Keep jewelry simple and classy by sticking to just a few pieces. If you wear big dangly earrings, stick to a simple necklace or bracelet. Or if you have an armful of bangles, choose a less flashy necklace and earrings.For a prom or other very formal dance, you can follow the tradition of wearing a corsage that complements your outfit and guy’s boutonniere. You can tell your date what color to buy you, or you can just buy or make your own! Wear the corsage either on your wrist or pinned to the front of your dress near the shoulder.Accessories are a great way to follow the color or theme of a dance. Pick a bright red purse or pair of shoes for a Valentine’s dance, stick a flower in your hair for a Spring dance, or buy a sparkly eye mask for a masquerade theme.
 If you want to, you can wear makeup to bring out the natural beauty of your face. Choose a concealer or foundation that matches your skin tone, and add a little blush or bronzer to your cheeks if you like. Sweep mascara onto your eyelashes and add eyeliner to your upper eyelids. If you go with bolder or darker eye makeup, stick to a light lip color or gloss, and vice versa., If you want to, get your hair styled at a salon in a traditionally formal updo. Or try curling, straightening, braiding, or another style that you or a friend can do to your hair. Add sparkly or colorful pins or clips for extra adornment. You can also go to a salon for a manicure and/or pedicure, paint your nails at home, or buy press-on nails.

