 Get a head start on the fundraiser by planning several months early for the event. If you are planning a fundraiser in the winter, start planning for it in the fall. If you know the big annual fundraiser is set to happen on a specific date, start planning six months to a year in advance. This will ensure you are on top of the event and have plenty of time to figure out the logistics of the event., To get started on the details of the fundraiser, you should work with a fundraising team. This could be three to five people that volunteer to help out or individuals who have worked on the school’s fundraisers in the past. You can also send out a friendly email to the parents in the school and ask if individuals would be willing to step up and join the team. Working with a team will allow you to manage the event effectively and get things done without feeling overwhelmed or stressed. You should include the following roles in the team:The people person: This person will act as the communications director and will send out friendly reminders about the event to parents and students. This person will need to be personable, outgoing, and familiar with the parent community. They will need to be willing to rally support and action on behalf of the fundraising team and keep energy up before and during the fundraiser.
The money person: This person should be comfortable with counting and keeping track of money. They will need to help collect the donations and profits from the fundraise and manage the profits so it is accounted for properly. This person should be responsible, trustworthy, and honest.
The task master: This person will be in charge of deadlines and keeping all team members and volunteers for the event on track. They should be aware of the required tasks to get the fundraiser set up and be willing to help everyone involved with time management. They should also make sure everyone is focused on the fundraising goals and ensure everyone is participating as much as possible.
 You and the team should work together to identify the end goal of the fundraiser. This could be new uniforms for the school’s sports team or payment for the school band’s spring break trip. Maybe you are looking to collect a certain dollar amount or perhaps you are looking to collect a certain amount of other donations, such as school supplies, children’s toys, or computer gear. Be clear about what the fundraiser is trying to achieve and use the end goal to plan the fundraiser.Being aware of the end goal for the fundraiser will also make it easier to make the big “ask” of the parents and students who attend the fundraiser. The “ask” is the dollar amount you are asking for from the participants. You should always have the “ask” stated up front for the fundraiser and remind everyone throughout the fundraiser of how important it is that you achieve the “ask”., Once you have assembled your fundraising team and you have identified the end goal for the fundraiser, you should make a timeline of tasks. Start with the most essential tasks first and set a deadline for them to get done. You should work through the tasks, prioritizing the most important tasks first, so that the team does not get overwhelmed by the fundraiser. Pace yourself and do one task at a time.Another option is to assign certain tasks to individuals on the team. Avoid taking on all the tasks yourself, as you are sure to get overwhelmed and stressed. Instead, try to assign the tasks equally among the team, focusing on tasks that would be suited to the roles on the team. You should attach deadlines to the tasks and check in periodically with each team member so they get done.
 This could be a bake sale, a popcorn sale, a pancake breakfast, or a pizza day. Consider if you can achieve the end goal of the fundraiser by selling small food items for a set price to students and parents. You may need to factor in if your end goal amount is too large to achieve by selling items for a small amount of money. If you are trying to raise a lower amount of money, a fundraiser involving food could be ideal.Another benefit of fundraisers involving food it that often you can get the food items donated or made by volunteers, thereby cutting down on the costs of putting on the fundraiser. For example, for a bake sale, each fundraiser team member can agree to make several batches of a certain cake, cupcake, or pie. This will cost very little and will not require a huge amount of prep work.
Keep in mind schools are getting increasingly more health conscious and may discourage selling unhealthy, sugary products to students. You may need to consider having healthier alternatives to sugary baked goods and treats as part of the fundraiser., One option could be a raffle, where you sell 50/50 tickets for a prizes or a big prize or silent auction, where donated items are bid on by participants. This will make the contest fun and engaging for the participants, as they are more likely to spend money if they are having fun. You should also try to get as many donated items as prizes as possible, as this will reduce any money spent on organizing the fundraiser.One way to make a raffle or a silent auction more interesting is to have a theme, where the prizes are organized based on theme and participants can dress up based on the theme. For example, maybe you have a “Roaring 20s” theme with donated items like vintage flapper dresses and coupons for a steak dinner at a local restaurant. Participants can then be invited to dress up in their best “Roaring 20s” costume and bid on the items., This could be a quiz show, where participants can buy tickets to participate in the quiz show and compete in teams. You could also do a bingo night, where participants buy in and play against each other for prizes. Another fun option is to hold a dance-a-ton, where participants pay to dance and compete for prizes.Fundraisers that involve games and working in teams can help create a sense of community among the parents, students, and teachers. It can also be a fun way to raise money, as participants will feel like they are actively involved in the fundraiser and having fun at the same time.
 If you are planning the fundraiser for a specific time of year or a holiday, you may make it seasonal. This could be a winter carnival in December or a Halloween carnival in October. Perhaps you have a holiday market during Christmas and invite parents and students from different religious backgrounds to participate in the market. Making the fundraiser seasonally themed can allow you to offer a variety of smaller fundraising options within a larger event.For example, if you are putting on a winter carnival, you can have several booths at the carnival selling handmade items, fun services (like photos with Santa and Rudolph), and interesting games and activities. This will allow you to get donations for the fundraiser from several smaller activities and possibly raise a larger amount of money.
 Many schools are using the internet to their advantage and trying online fundraisers as a way to raise money. Online fundraisers can be a useful and easy way for individuals to donate. However, unlike in person donations, online donations are not tax-deductible.If you go the online fundraising route, you should have someone who is social media savvy on the fundraising team. This person should do daily social media posts and updates so donors feel connected to the fundraiser and are kept in the loop. A strong online presence can also encourage others to donate to the fundraiser and promote it for you.
 Maintain good communication with the rest of the fundraising team and do periodic check ins with each team member. This will sure things run smoothly, especially during the few days leading up to the fundraiser.You should also ensure each team member knows what they need to bring or prepare for the fundraiser. This could be a set of plastic chairs, decorations, donated items, or a box for donations. Have a list of items required for the fundraiser and assign items to team members so everyone is accountable for certain items.
 If the set up for the fundraiser is elaborate or involves lots of set up, you should reach out to parents, teachers, and students for help setting up. Ask parents a few weeks before the fundraiser to help with set up and ask students to pitch in. Involving other members of the school community will help the set up go smoothly and make the fundraiser feel like a community effort., On the day of the fundraiser, you should arrive at the location early with the other fundraising team members and any volunteers. Assign different set up areas to different groups of people and do walk throughs of the areas so they are set up properly and promptly.

