 This will create the base for your serving tray. Choose a pumpkin that is relatively flat on top, and don't worry about the stem.;
, You should be able to do this with a box cutter, craft blade, or even a saw from a pumpkin carving kit. Don't worry about being too neat here; you will be covering the top of the pumpkin. Removing the stem simply helps the serving plate or candle charger sit better on it., You can leave the pumpkin as is, or you can paint it a different color using spray paint or acrylic paint. You can also apply a light layer of paint using a wide, dry paintbrush to create a streaked, weathered, vintage look. Gold will work great, but you can paint your pumpkin any color you want. It might be a good idea to match it to your serving tray, however!

, Focus on the highest part of the pumpkin, as this will be the part that touches the tray. Don't worry so much about the dipped or hollow areas, such as the groove around the stem.
 You can also use a large, plastic, candle charger from the craft store instead. Keep the tray proportionate to the pumpkin. You want it to be wider than the pumpkin, but not so wide that it becomes unstable and tips around.


Make sure that the tray is centered.
Choose a tray or candle charger that goes well with your pumpkin. If the design is nice, but the color clashes, paint the tray with spray paint. Let the paint dry before you use the tray.
 Flip your pumpkin try over and take a look at the seam between the pumpkin and the base of the tray. If you see any gaps, fill them in with hot glue. Alternatively, you can add a line of hole glue along the seam between the pumpkin and the tray to extra stability.
 You can do this by hot gluing a smaller pumpkin and smaller tray on top. You can also do it by hot gluing your medium pumpkin to a large tray, and then gluing the tray to a larger pumpkin. Remember to chop the stems off of the pumpkins, however., Hot glue only takes a few minutes to set up, so your tray will be ready in no time! To clean it, simply wipe the surface of the tray down with a damp cloth. You can decorate it further by adding some autumn leaves, acorns, and a fall-scented candle on top.

