 Maintain stability in the home by prioritizing calmness. Children sometimes need to be disciplined, but never lose control and allow anger to dictate your interactions with one another.One of the best ways to stay calm is simply pausing for a few moments and taking several deep, slow breaths. This not only provides a physiological defense against anger, is also gives you a chance to evaluate your response to the situation. Take a peek at the article How To Control Your Temper if you find yourself becoming agitated with regularity.
Don’t try to work out disagreements with your spouse in front of your kids. If you do have an argument in front of your kids, explain that it was just a disagreement and that everything is alright., Take a few minutes every day to focus on your breath. Breathe deeply and evenly. Push away the thoughts and concerns that inevitably arise. Once your mind is calm, shift your focus to a positive aspect of a relationship with someone in your family. For instance:Reflect on what you are grateful for about your family, what you like about a certain family member, or the concept of patience.
Remind yourself that it is within your capacity to nurture the relationships you take part in.
 One way to maintain these feelings towards is to remind yourself of your family members’ positive qualities. Short, genuine comments can go a long way in improving one another’s moods and deepening bonds between family members.Compliment each other. Don’t just compliment your family members when it seems they’re down. Convey the positive thoughts you have about each other as the thoughts arise.
Remind your spouse how attracted you are to them when they change their hairstyle or get a new jacket. Even better, mention your attraction out of nowhere.
Tell your family members you believe in them. If one of your family members is stressing about school or work, tell them you have faith in them. Tell them you’re proud of them when they reach achievements they’ve been working towards.
 Relationships between family members are inevitably effected by stress or tension in normal family life. Watch for signs that your relationships may need particular attention from time to time. Consider these options:


Take a step back. Since many family members often inevitably spend a lot of time together, whether intentionally or by nature of proximity, it can sometimes be helpful to spend time apart. Everyone – not just the kids – should involve themselves in some sort of activity outside of the home with some regularity.
Talk to someone else. If there is something you cannot talk to a family member about that is bothering you, talk to someone else. The important thing is to express concerns constructively. A friend, counselor, therapist, or doctor can help you deal with uncertainties or concerns about your own life or something happening in your family. Don’t allow personal conflicts or concerns to negatively affect the relationships you have with family members.
See a family counselor. If your family is having a significant amount of trouble maintaining healthy relationships and you or other members of your family are unhappy, consider getting help. Re-assure yourself and your family members that there is nothing wrong with seeing a counselor, and that doing so will strengthen your relationships with one another.