 at school) where speaking is expected.
Ability to talk and normally interact in other circumstances.
The inability to speak under certain situation is having a negative impact on social and academic functions.
The symptoms last for longer than one month, excluding the first month of school (it takes time to adjust to a new environment).
The symptoms cannot be accounted for by unfamiliarity with the spoken language under the given social situation (i.e. a girl fluent in another language who knows very little English and remains quiet in situations where English is spoken does not have selective mutism!)
The symptoms cannot be accounted for by another disability, such as autism/Asperger syndrome, schizophrenia, or general psychotic disorders.
The inability to speak is not by choice, but rather by extreme anxiety preventing the individual from speaking.;
, To overcome selective mutism, you must first recognise how it is affecting you. Find out the specific circumstances in which you are unable to speak. For example, a child may speak normally with peers, but unable to talk to adults. Another child may talk and behave totally normal at home, but remains completely silent at school. By identifying the particular situation where selective mutism manifests, you can help direct your efforts to overcome selective mutism under these circumstances.
 Then gradually introduce another person to interact with to join the conversation. Start with the most comfortable person you can talk with and progress gradually to the most uncomfortable person for you to talk to. The idea of this technique is that the anxiety caused by the persons you feel uncomfortable interacting with will "fade" away when this stimulus is associated with another person you feel very comfortable interacting with.
 via letter, e-mail, instant message, online chat, etc.
Then progress to more interactions, such as by phone, then interact at a distance, and eventually to more direct interactions. This method is also highly effective for numerous other anxiety disorders, such as specific phobias. The idea of this method is to overcome the anxiety causing inability to speak by gradual exposure to increasing levels of the anxiety-provoking stimulus, eventually becoming desensitized enough to overcome the actual situation.
 Gradually increase the comfort level. Due to the extreme anxiety, it is crucial to get as much help and encouragement from others as possible.Try audio recordings of one's own voice, then replaying the speech to develop comfort with speaking -- this technique is known as Shaping. Practice whispering at a public place as in an office or classroom with a friend/parent or teacher, and practice gradually increasing the volume to a talking level.
, Instead of thinking "I can't talk..." think "I can try to talk and make it possible if I work at it! "

, One may benefit from public speaking classes for learning to do presentations, and even for small venues such as job interviews. Entertainers and other public speakers get used to having that stress when speaking or singing for a large audience. Sometimes, however, even well-experienced entertainers turn to drugs to attempt to control these stressful feelings, to relax on stage. Later in one's career while being naturally relaxed, one may desire to feel the old excitement, when it is rarely felt at all. Often, at the head table or on stage one may look at each other to offer support and to get a smile or a nod of appreciation.
There is considerable stress related to new social situations as well as in the larger venues with crowds.
 In that case, you should seek professional help and may require the use of medications to cope with selective mutism. Common medications prescribed to help reduce anxiety to allow speaking and interaction include fluoxetine (Prozac) and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Use of medications should be combined with repeated practice of the above techniques and anxiety-reduction techniques for the greatest likelihood of overcoming selective mutism.

