 When dealing with tubes and other cylindrical packages, you'll need to know the height or length of the cylinder, as well as the radius of its circular sides. Find these measurements using a measuring stick, then write both down separately.


Since CBM is actually a measurement of volume, you'll need to use the standard volume formula for cylinders when calculating the CBM of a cylindrical package.
Note that the radius of the circular side is half its diameter, and the diameter is the distance from one side of the circular face to the other. To measure the radius, measure the diameter of one circular face and split the number in half.

Example: Calculate the CBM of a cylindrical package with a height of 64 inches and a diameter of 20 inches.

Find the radius of this package by dividing the diameter in half: 20 inches / 2 = 10 inches



, For many small packages, you may naturally take measurements in centimeters, inches, or feet. You must convert such measurements into their equivalent value in meters before calculating cubic meters.


The conversion factor you'll need to use will depend upon the unit used in your original measurement.

Example: These original measurements were taken in inches. To convert inches into meters, you need to divide the number of inches by a conversion factor of 39.37.Repeat this process for both measurements.

Height: 64 inches / 39.37 = 1.63 m
Radius: 10 inches / 39.37 = 0.25 m



, To find the volume and CBM of a cylinder, you need to multiply the cylinder's height with its radius. You must then multiply the product of those two values by the fixed value of pi.When written in abbreviated form, the formula you need to use looks like: CBM = H * R2 * π

Where H = height, R = radius, and π = the constant pi, 3.14



Example: CBM = 1.63 m * (0.25 m)2 * 3.14 = 1.63 m * 0.0625 m2 * 3.14 = 0.32 cubic meters

, The product you calculated during the previous step should be the volume and CBM of the individual cylindrical unit.



Example: The CBM of this package is 0.32, meaning that it will take up 0.32 cubic meters of space.

