 In order to make Jolly Rancher lollipops, you will need to melt the Jolly Ranchers. Turn on your oven and set it to 275°F (135°C). This will be hot enough for the Jolly Ranchers to melt once you put them inside.
 The aluminum foil will prevent your baking sheet from getting sticky or ruined, and the parchment paper will make it easier to remove the lollipops once they have cooled. Place the parchment paper on top of the aluminum, and lightly grease your parchment paper with shortening or cooking spray. This will help the lollipops from sticking., Arrange the groups in rows, and leave enough room for some lollipop sticks. Each group should have 2 to 3 candies.

You can create long, rectangular lollipops by lining up 5 pieces instead of 3. Consider alternating the colors, such as red and green, or pink and blue. You can turn these rectangles into lilies by rolling them into cones once the candy melts.
To make daisies, arrange 5 to 6 Jolly Ranchers in a circle. You are creating something that looks like a star. There will be a gap in the middle of your star. You can leave the gap as is, or fill it with another hard candy, such as a Life Saver. When the candies melt, the candy will flatten out. The "rays" will look like petals.
 Let the Jolly Ranchers bake for about 6 to 8 minutes or until melted. The Jolly Ranchers will spread and flatten out into rounded squares or circles. Keep an eye on the candy, however, as each oven is different, and your candy might melt sooner., Once the candy has melted, take the tray out of the oven and set it down on a stable, heat-resistant surface. You may have to take the candy out in less than 6 minutes., Take the lollipop sticks and start laying them down into the melted Jolly Ranchers. You want just the first inch or two of the lollypop stick to be inside the melted Jolly Rancher. Twist the lollipop stick slightly as you are laying it into the melted candy. This creates a secure bond.If you made rectangular lollipops with 5 pieces, then place the lollipop stick into one of the narrow ends of the rectangle. Because this is a bigger piece, you can put more of the lollipop stick into the candy.
If you are making daisies, insert the lollipop stick between two petals. Try to make the top of the stick go all the way to the center of the flower.
If you are making lilies, insert the lollipop stick into the wide end of the rectangle, then roll the rectangle into a cone.
After you have inserted the lollipop sticks, but before the candy hardens, consider decorating it further with some sprinkles or other candies.
 Leave the lollipops undisturbed on the baking sheet for about 5 minutes, or until they have cooled off and hardened., If there is any residue left behind from the shortening or cooking spray, then wipe it off with a cloth., Once you have finished making your lollipops, you will need to store them in a cool, dry place so that they don't get sticky. Keep them in a sealed container, or wrap them in cellophane bags and tie them off with string.

If you made Jolly Rancher flowers, consider tying a short, green ribbon around the lollipop stick to resemble leaves, and place the lollipop in a small vase. You can use it as decorations or favors at a party.

