 One of the most distinguishing aspects of your character should be their purpose or want in the story. Your character’s goals should drive the story and their goal should be unique to their character. For example, your character might be a young African American man who is trying to get into the NBA. Or your character might be an old woman who is trying to reconnect with her long lost son. Making your character’s purpose or goal specific will help them seem more realistic and believable.Another key aspect of your character’s goal is that your character should have a small goal, such as trying to get a girl, and a large goal, such as confirming love is real. Try to give your character a small and a large goal so their story feels specific and also general, or universal, to your reader.
 A hero with no flaws or a villain with no heart will be flat characters on the page. Give your character strengths and weaknesses to create a well rounded character who is also relatable to your reader. If you are creating a main character who is going to be your protagonist, make a list of strengths and weaknesses for the character. The protagonist’s weaknesses should be out weighed just slightly by your character’s strengths, especially if they are going to be the underdog or underachiever in your story.For example, your character may be shy or introverted, but has a good mind for solving riddles and puzzles. Or your character may struggle with anger or rage, but tries to maintain control over their emotions.
Balancing your character’s strengths with weaknesses will make your character more endearing and relatable to your reader, which will then make the character feel more realistic.
 Not all characters have to be motivated by a past trauma or fear. But creating a backstory for your character with events which may have harmed or damaged them can create tension in the character’s present life. A backstory is events or moments in the character’s life that happens before the story begins.A backstory can also allow you to make the character more believable on the page. A character who refers to previous events will widen the scope of the story and give the character a more well developed presence in the story.
For example, in Diaz’s short story “The Cheater’s Guide to Love”, the reader is told of backstory, the narrator’s past transgressions while he was with his girlfriend. This backstory becomes the reason why the narrator’s girlfriend leaves him. So the backstory is doing two things in the story: it is showing the reader more about the narrator and it is a major plot point in the story. It also widens the scope of the story, as the reader is dropped into the narrator’s immediate drama (the girlfriend leaving him) but this drama stems from past events that the narrator must face in the present.
 Another way to create a more realistic character in your story is to create a person or force that is working against your character. A nemesis will add an element of reality to the story, as in real life, we are often faced with opposing forces or challenging individuals.The nemesis could be in the form of a nosy neighbor, an annoying family member, or a troublesome partner. Your character’s nemesis should correspond with the character’s purpose or desire.
For example, a character who is trying to land a basketball scholarship may have a nemesis in the form of a rival teammate, or an overbearing coach. A character who is trying to win back a girl he cheated on may have a nemesis in the form of his inability to control his own desires or be monogamous.

