 A key to preventative care for your dog is making sure they see the vet regularly for checkups. This way your vet can keep an eye on your dog’s weight, vitality, and check for signs of chronic disease such as arthritis or cancer. Make sure you take your dog in for a checkup with the veterinarian one or more times per year, depending on their age.If your dog is under seven years old, schedule a checkup once per year.
If your dog is over seven years old, make sure they see the vet every six months.;
, Prioritizing dental care is an investment in your dog’s long-term health. Your dog should visit the vet annually for a dental exam and professional cleaning. You should also feed your dog nutritious food as recommended by your vet, and give them dental bones or chew toys regularly to help prevent plaque and tartar buildup., Dogs need exercise and a daily walk around the block won’t cut it for most. Making sure your dog exercises regularly is key to maintaining health and vitality, and will help your dog lead a long and healthy life. Make sure your dog gets between 30 and 60 minutes of exercise each day, such as walking, running, or intense toy play., It’s critical that your dog is up to date on their vaccinations. Keeping your dog vaccinated can save money on expensive vet bills resulting from illnesses that could be prevented by a vaccine, such as parvovirus. Contact your vet to make sure your dog’s vaccinations are up to date, and keep a list of when they are due for their next round of shots.Ask your vet’s office to send you regular reminders about your dog’s vaccinations. This will help you plan for and stay on top of your dog’s vaccination schedule.
 Dogs that are overweight have a shorter life expectancy and lower quality of life than dogs whose weight is within a healthy range. Make an appointment with your vet and ask them to examine your dog to determine if they are overweight or obese. In the meantime, make sure you are not overfeeding your dog and that they are getting enough exercise.Overweight and obese dogs are more prone to developing arthritis, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, cancer, kidney disease, and heart and respiratory disease.
 It is extremely important that you do not avoid or delay getting vet care for your dog. Doing so is detrimental to your dog's health. It can also end up costing you a lot more in the long run if you put off prioritizing your dog's health.

