 You can make a big difference in the lives of people who are desperate for some books. You can look through a variety of International book donation program websites to find the one that's right for you. You can try this International Book Donations Program web site. The page lists institutions, organizations, and town or village programs that have no other way of acquiring reading and educational materials.


Choose from the geographical index, or go to the International section, which lists very large agencies that collect and redistribute to many countries.
Subjects, language, and level of books requested are listed, along with contact information. Be sure to get in touch with them first, to make sure they need your materials. For overseas shipments, you will need to get a customs form from the post office.;
, Most libraries have yearly book sales. They'll resell to raise money for the library, and you'll get a tax write-off. Make sure your donated books are in resale condition. If your books are moldy, stained, filled with personal information, or missing some pages, then they won't be accepted.
 Most thrift stores have book departments, and they would be happy to take on your old books, as long as they're in good condition. Check out the thrift stores in your neighborhood and see if they have a need for your old books. They may be more likely to take them if you also have some clothes or other items to donate.
 Many churches accept donations of books, which they give to the less fortunate or sell to raise profits for their establishment. Check out the churches in your area and see if any of them are accepting used books.
 Search the internet for charities in your area that are accepting book donations. There are a lot of countries trying to rebuild their libraries in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East.
 BookCrossing is a website that allows you to register your books and to leave them somewhere for a person nearby to enjoy them.
 Find a location where people wait--a laundromat, hospital waiting room, bus stop, and the like. Place a box saying "Free Books" on your street. At your work or school, place a box saying "Free Book Exchange" in an alcove or eating area. Just remember that you may need to get permission from the staff in the location first.
 There are a variety of pages that allow you to donate your books for free. Visit Freecycle or Sharing is Giving to find a group in your area. These groups list many sites tailored to your location where you can post listings of things you want to give away.


People who want the books will come to your home or workplace to pick up the books. Make sure you're comfortable with giving away your home or work address if you're using a web site with this particular feature.

