 If you are on a tablet, console, or other device, skip down to the section below. Most of these devices do not have access to the complete Netflix settings, unlike a computer.

Some mobile web browsers have access to the settings described in this section.;
, Visit https://www.netflix.com/YourAccount and log in. Alternatively, log in to the site, hover over your profile name or icon in the top right, and select Your Account. There are three types of profiles, which have different levels of access:


The primary profile is usually the first profile listed. Use this one to make changes to the membership plan, email address, password, and billing information.
Additional profiles have access to all preferences not listed above. Use your own profile whenever possible, since some changes will only affect a single account.
Kids profiles do not have access to any settings.
 The first two sections of the account page are Membership & Billing and Plan Details. Use these options to change your email, password, payment method, or streaming & DVD plans.


Most of these are self-explanatory, but you may not know about Email preferences. This page lets you opt in to receive emails about new shows, updates, or special offers.
 Use these settings if you want to make changes to your streaming or DVD plan, such as how many DVDs you can order at one time.
 The Settings section is next on your account page. These options let you change your DVD shipping address, pay an extra fee to receive Blu-ray discs, or add a new device to your Netflix account. There are also a couple less obvious settings:

Enable Test Participation to see experimental features before they are widely available. These are typically minor changes to recommendations or user interface, but occasionally this may grant special features such as Privacy Mode.

Assign DVDs to Profile if your household fights over your DVD queue. You can pay extra to add additional DVDs, and assign how many each profile can order at a time.
 The final section, My Profile, only affects the profile you currently have selected. This includes the following options:


Language: choose a default language. Note that not all content will be available in all languages.
Subtitle appearance: tweak the color, size, and font of subtitles.
Order in my list: tell Netflix to stop adding suggestions to the My List category.
Playback settings: Reduce maximum data usage (recommended if you have a data cap on your internet plan), and disable playing the next episode automatically.
 Visit netflix.com/EditProfiles, or hover over your avatar in the top right and select "Manage Profiles." From here, you may add profiles, delete them, and set a profile as a Kids profile. Kids profiles cannot view adult content.


Deleting a profile will permanently remove all of its viewing history, ratings, and recommendations. There is no way to reverse this.
 With a Netflix video playing, hold down ⇧ Shift + Alt (or ⌥ Option on Mac), then left-click the screen. This brings up a pop-up window of advanced settings, including these useful options:Stream Manager → Manual Selection → choose a buffer rate (how quickly Netflix attempts to load content in advance).

A/V Sync Compensation → move the slider to fix issues with unsynced video and audio.

