 There are many different kinds of honeybees, and each comes with their own good and bad traits. The type you’ll choose will depend on what you want to get out of keeping bees, and how you hope to interact with the bees. For example, as a new beekeeper, you might want to choose a type of honeybee known for being less prone to swarms, and on the gentler side.The Italian bee, for example, is a really good option for a beginner. They produce a good amount of honey, aren’t prone to swarming, are gentle, and hardy. On the other hand, the Carniolan bee is a bit more prone to swarming, and don’t produce as much honey as the Italian bee.;
, When ordering your bees, you can choose between a nucleus (nuc) hive or a package hive. A package is essentially a collection of bees put together from different established hives. Since the colony isn’t already acquainted with the queen and she isn’t already actively laying eggs, these can be more difficult to establish. Nucs, on the other hand, are beginning hives that have already accepted the queen and begun producing honey. Both nucs and packages usually have the same amount of bees, about 10,000 each.Traditionally, new hives can begin in the spring, when things are blooming and the hive can thrive right away. With package hives, if you get your package right as the season begins, they may actually miss out on the season as they are still trying to establish themselves as it’s going on.
There isn’t usually much price difference between the two options. Either option will likely cost between $50 and $120.
The package, while the more difficult option, has also been known to be more enjoyable and satisfying for new beekeepers, as it offers them a chance to see how a hive is built from the very start, and the keeper can observe the entire process.
 There are plentiful bee suppliers around the United States, so locating one will be easy enough. You just want to check up on that supplier and make sure they have a good reputation. Online reviews and asking other beekeepers in the area are good sources.


Try to choose a supplier that is near to you, as this will cut down on transport time and distance. This will make the transition from transport container to your hive much easier and take less time.
 The easiest method of starting your own hive is to purchase one that has already been established and fostered by another, more experienced beekeeper. This will ensure your colony will survive and thrive, as they have already been producing workers and honey by the time you get them.One other option, aside from buying, is to capture your own bees in the wild. This is both dangerous and difficult, and should really only be attempted by experienced beekeepers.
 You will likely bring your bees in transporting boxes and move them to your own equipment. You should have your hive prepared before bringing your bees home to it. There are many different types of hives, all of which can be purchased pre-built, or if you’re handy, built yourself.The Langstroth, Horizontal Top Bar, and Warre Hives are the most common and popular among beekeepers in the United States. There are many companies that build and produce these hives, and you can purchase many of them online. The Langstroth Hive is the most popular, and is the most recommended for beginners., You will need to use a smoker to calm the bees and keep stinging to a minimum, as well as wear necessary protective gear, including a veil and gloves to keep the bees away from your face and hands.Make sure you can safely operate a bee smoker. Use a good fuel like pine to start a small fire in the can, then put the lid on. You can also use dryer lint, paper, or cotton to get it started. Be careful of where you put down your smoker while using it, and make sure you wear your gloves while handling it, as it can get very hot., When your hive is just starting out, they might not have enough of their own food made already, so you’ll need to supplement it with feeding them sugared liquids. A basic sugar-water mixture is sufficient. You can also purchase frames to slide right into your hive that will sustain them when they are low on their own food.Once your hive is established, it’s unlikely you’ll need to feed them again unless the hive is struggling, or there is any kind of illness you’re treating in the hive. Otherwise, your hive will be self-sufficient and will produce their own food.
 You will likely bring your bees in transporting boxes and move them to your own equipment. You should have your hive prepared before bringing your bees home to it. There are many different types of hives, all of which can be purchased pre-built, or if you’re handy, built yourself.The Langstroth, Horizontal Top Bar, and Warre Hives are the most common and popular among beekeepers in the United States. There are many companies that build and produce these hives, and you can purchase many of them online. The Langstroth Hive is the most popular, and is the most recommended for beginners., You’ll want to keep the hive in a location that is near to a lot of flowering trees and flowerbeds, as well as in close proximity to a source of running fresh water. You’ll want the hive in a sunny spot, but one that might be shaded when it’s the hottest during the day. A place with a lot of good air flow is also helpful., Until your bees are creating their own food and thriving on their own, you will need to feed them a sugar-water mixture. After the hive is established, it’s likely you will only need to spend a few hours per year handling and keeping the bees.If your bees are thriving and making their own food, don’t feed them extra sugar syrup.
 If you start out with a smaller group and your colony expands, you will need to add additional space to your hive as needed. Giving the bees a bigger hive as they grow in numbers will help minimize the tendency to swarm, as well, and make handling them easier.You can purchase or build extra hive bodies to add into your existing hive as the colony grows, or you can expand into another hive.
 If this is your first time establishing a hive and keeping honey bees, it’s a good idea to get some advice and guidance from someone who has already done it. They can show you the ropes and help you get acquainted with the ins and outs of keeping bees.


Get some advice on how to best handle bees. Ask them for tips on harvesting honey, if that’s what you hope to get out of beekeeping. You might also ask them their opinion on the best plants to keep near the hive for the bees.

