 Open a web browser and type “classaction.org” into the navigation toolbar. The navigation toolbar should be showing the wikiHow address right now. Right click in the box to highlight the current address and then type in the new address.;
, At the website, click on “Lawsuit List” or “Browse.” Both options will take you to a list of ongoing lawsuits.You can also sign up for their newsletter if you want instant updates. Type your email address into the pop-up box and hit the “subscribe” button.
If you have been injured by a company, you can also send in information about your injury. This website is affiliated with Jaeckel Law, a class action law firm. The firm will investigate injuries that could lead to future class actions.
If you have an injury to report, you do not have to go through Jaeckel Law. They provide this website for free. Instead, you could hire any attorney you choose to initiate a class action lawsuit.
 A class action lawsuit is litigated on behalf of a larger group of people similarly situated as the plaintiff (“the class”).Once a class is certified, notice is published in newspapers and mailed to people apprising them of the lawsuit. Unless you “opt out” of the class action, then the lawsuit will determine your rights.For this reason, you do not actually have to join a class action lawsuit to recover money from the defendant. If you are entitled to compensation under the class action settlement, then you can submit a claim at this website.


Click on “Settlements” and then scroll through the class actions for which a settlement rebate is available. Click on the orange “Submit Claim” button.
You will then be prompted to download various forms to fill out.Follow directions and return the forms to the address provided.
 Type the address into your navigation bar. This website has recent class action and consumer litigation news.


The website is not updated regularly and therefore should not be your first and only place to stop.
 Type “topclassactions” into your browser. Top Class Actions lists class actions which have settled. You can claim your settlement award by clicking on the “Submit Claim” button.


This website also tells you the typical settlement amount.
 This website also provides information on recent class action lawsuits and provides you with an opportunity to apply for a recovery from a settlement.


This website only has information from class actions which have already settled.
 Newly filed class action lawsuits are often discussed in the media, especially when the defendant is a large corporation. If you are looking for current class action lawsuits involving a specific defendant, then you can search the web.


Type the corporation’s name and “class action” into a browser. You can also set up a google alert with the company’s name, so that you will be updated of any new class action lawsuits in which the company has been named as a defendant.

