 Every month, clean your chinchilla cage completely. Have a broom, dustpan, vacuum, paper towels, a sponge, and disinfectant ready to use.


Monthly or bi-monthly cleaning of your chinchilla’s cage takes approximately thirty minutes to an hour.If you don’t want to use a chemical disinfectant, a one part to one part mixture of vinegar and water is an excellent cleaner for the cage., Before you clean the cage, it’s a good idea to take out your chinchilla so that you can clean the space more quickly and effectively.


To make your chinchilla more comfortable in their temporary space, scatter some food pellets on the floor.
 You’re going to clean the cage inside and out, from the walls to the litter pan and food dish and even toys. Removing everything before you start will help you more effectively clean.


Throw away any food, water, hay or shavings, and the litter. Putting new material in will contribute to the health and happiness of your chinchilla.Remove any shelves that need replacing., Using either the disinfectant or a vinegar mixture, thoroughly clean and dry the inside and outside walls of the cage.Make sure to allow the cage to dry thoroughly before you replace any dishes, toys, and the litter pan. This will help inhibit the growth of any bacteria or fungus., Washing and refilling the litter pan promotes the health and happiness of your chinchilla.Wash the litter pan with some disinfectant and water. Make sure to let it dry thoroughly before you refill the litter.Wash the litter pan with some disinfectant and water if you like. Make sure to let it dry thoroughly before you refill the litter., It’s important for your chinchilla to have fresh, clean hay or shavings once a month. This will keep your chinchilla happy and healthy, and will also prevent odor and bacterial growth., Clean toys that are not broken promote the health of your chinchilla.


Replace any defective toys or those you can’t wash so they don’t harm the chinchilla.
You can use the same methods to disinfect your chinchilla’s toys as you did the food dish: either a one part to one part mixture of vinegar and water, or in hot soapy, water.
 This step will help promote the cleanliness of the cage and remove any lingering parts that may contain bacteria.
 When you're ready to place your chinchilla's equipment back in the cage, rearrange the setup from what it was like before. Chinchillas like to explore new settings and rearranging the cage's setup will keep them happy and active., Give him a treat for behaving while you cleaned his cage!

