 Of course, you can borrow one from a friend, but how will you be able to call it your own? A bike punk values their bicycle almost as much as their own life. Do not steal a bike. Only go out and buy a really expensive bicycle if you are serious about this. Lock it up. You earn extreme credibility if you find one in the trash or at a thrift store/flea market and do something unique to make it your own. You can paint it and add accessories (baskets, flowers, horns (literal animal horns), fake fur, bells, etc.). If you are talented with welding and inventing contraptions, use these skills to create out-of-the-ordinary tandem, tall, oblong, and unique bikes.;
, Sell, give, or burn your car away. If you don't have one already even better. Bike punks don't drive internal combustion engines without extreme guilt and malice.
 This cannot be stressed enough. be careful of driver doors swinging open, "right hooks", cars turning at intersections, and being visible at night. Red flashing LED lights clipped on your bag are always de rigueur.
 Even if your destination is 10 miles (16 km) away, bike there. Some of the most hardcore of bike punks have ridden across the state, and even country.
 While it is desirable to bicycle in the warmth and sunshine, a bike punk will move through rain, sleet, and snow.
 Every last Friday of every month, the Critical Mass ritual occurs in cities all over the world. Find out when your city has it and where people convene. There, you will meet fellow bicycle enthusiasts. If you live in a small town, ride to the nearest city to participate. If this is not possible, then create your own form of bicycle activism and bicycle communities.
 Well, clothing is optional. Bike punks consider themselves to be persons of different subcultures, mostly left of the dial. This includes: nudists, hippies, hipsters, punks, homeless people, utterly insane, etc. You can see that these all overlap at one point or another. Tight pants are recommended, usually rolled up past the ankles displaying socks and shoes. Unique hair is a must, be it dreadlocks, spunky colors, or fun hats/helmets.

