 There are a lot of parts to a squid that are thrown out when a squid is pre-prepared. It may seem gross at first, but prepping a whole squid requires nothing but a sharp knife and a willingness to get your hands dirty., This is probably the grossest part of the whole process, and you get it done first. Hold the squid firmly by the body, or mantle. Squeeze gently above the eyes and pull towards the tentacles so that you have two parts -- the head and tentacles and the mantle.


This may get messy, so do it over the sink when possible., Discard the eyes and head, keeping the tentacles for later. If you want to save the ink, which is great in stews or pasta, it is attached above the head and is a silvery sack with black liquid inside. Cut it away and drain the ink into a bowl to use later., The hard mouth of the squid sits in the middle of the tentacle cluster. Feel around for a small, seed like beak at the base of the tentacles. It can be popped out by squeezing out in the direction of the tentacles.


Cut any extra long tentacles back so that they are all roughly even length and then set the tentacles aside-- they are ready to cook and serve.
 You can trim them back with a knife as well, but pulling them off will weaken the skin, which you need to remove later. Pull back the fins (they look like wings on the body) then pinch them with your thumb and forefinger until have a good grip. You can then easily pull them off the body of the squid.
 You should be able to feel it easily in the mantle of the squid along the belly, and it will slide out easily. It may break inside the squid, so make sure to feel for any hard bits before you begin cooking.
 Starting at the tip, use the back of your knife to push the remaining gunk out of the mantle. If you're feeling adventurous, it is often easier to just reach in with your hands or a spoon and simply scoop it all out., The membrane is the gel-like, purple skin covering the squid. Cut the tip off the mantle and use it to get some skin loose, then pull it away. If you are having trouble, scrape the blade of the knife at an angle along the skin, almost like you were gently whittling. Rinse the squid in cold water when you're done.
 If you want calamari, cut the mantle horizontally so that you have rings of squid. For most other servings, cut along one edge of the squid to open it up into a flat piece and then cut into squares.You can also score the fish for faster cooking. Make small slices halfway into the flesh with your knife at an angle so that the squid is ridged.