 One of the first steps to empathizing with homeless children is learning about the events surrounding their circumstances. Some children leave home after being repeatedly abused, others have multiple family members that are also homeless. Many homeless youth have already begun using or selling drugs as a means of coping with their situation. Read up on the facts about youth homelessness so you can be better prepared to help.Most shelters or kitchens that deal with homeless youth will have informational pamphlets available. Reputable organizations like the National Coalition for the Homeless also feature valuable information on their websites.;
, Find out what resources are needed at homeless shelters or soup kitchens and contact local charities or civic organizations to sponsor food or clothing drives. You can also be an effective advocate for homeless youth by attending city council meetings and speaking up about how the city could better allocate resources to help them.A major part of advocating for the homeless is using respectful terminology. Instead of “street kid” or “vagrant,” use phrases like “children experiencing homelessness.”, Many people are discouraged from helping homeless youth and families due to unfair and inaccurate information about homelessness. Use what you've learned to encourage others to rethink their biases when it comes to homeless youth.


If a colleague makes a generalization like, "All homeless people are lazy," you might counter with "A lot of homeless youth don't have the resources to help themselves, and others have substance abuse problems or emotional health concerns."Almost 40 percent of homeless youth identify as LGBTQ—others constitute racial minorities. Being sensitive and informed about the special challenges facing minority homeless youth can help you better serve them.
 Use what you have learned to influence the way others think about homeless children. Start by striking up casual conversations with friends, loved ones, or coworkers to share information. As you become more confident addressing these topics, consider hosting an informative session at your home, local recreation center, or place of worship.


Consider inviting the director of a homeless youth center to come speak at your workplace or a community center. Ask them to hold a Q and A session to address the challenges facing homeless children.
If you decide to host an informative gathering, consider inviting a young person who has experienced homelessness to speak about their experiences and educate the audience about how to be sensitive to the needs of homeless youth.
 Organizations like the National Alliance to End Homelessness often host conferences to keep communities informed and engaged. Others, like the NCH, maintain facts sheets on their websites designed to educate people about the causes of youth homelessness as well as keep them updated on statistics and special issues.No matter how passionately you may feel about circulating information on youth homelessness, try your best to be tactful and sensitive about it. Friends and coworkers may respond better to the occasional email or brochure than a constant inundation of suggestions and statistics.
 Go the extra mile by suggesting that your friends or family attend advocacy events or informational meetings with you. Be on the lookout for outreach programs or conferences in local newspapers or online forums.Undertaking short fasts, such as skipping one meal in a day, can cause people to stop and think about what life is like for children who are hungry on a regular basis. Experiences like these can often teach more effectively than a conference or brochure.

