 The Office of Childcare, a department and website run by the federal government, provides information for families about childcare. You can find information on how to choose good childcare and where to find funding on the "Resources for Parents" page., This page is called the CCDF Grantee State and Territory Contacts. It lists the contacts for each state and territory that provide funding for childcare., The list is alphabetical. Each state and territory has an address and a website. Click on the website for your state to find out more about funding where you live., Many states have a way for you to check your eligibility before you apply. That way, you won't waste time applying for assistance you can't receive. Most of the time, eligibility is based at least partially on income, so you will need to know how much you make in a year before checking your eligibility.Financial eligibility is usually set at a certain percentage of the federal poverty level. That means that the federal government draws a line at where it considers a person or a family to be in poverty, though it changes based on how many people are in your family. Services offered by states may be offered to those who are at or below 150 percent of the poverty level, for example, or 300 percent of the poverty level. It is generally up to the state.
As of 2015, the federal poverty level was set at $11,770 for a single person. If you have two people in your family, the line goes up to $15,930, while a family of three is set at $20,090. For four people, the line is $24,250, while five people is $28,410 and six is $32,570., Often, you will need to contact your local office to find out more about childcare. Your state website should have a list of local offices so you can find one in your area.For instance, in Texas, the Texas Workforce Commission is in charge of daycare funding, so you contact your local Texas Workforce Commission office., If you can't find the appropriate website for your state, you can try calling 2-1-1. This number is a general number for all kinds of support. In many states, that includes daycare help.However, not every state provides daycare help through this line, and some states, such as Connecticut, have a separate 211 number and site dedicated to childcare.Simply dial 211 on your phone. The call is free. Someone will help you find what you need. You can also find help online at 211.org., Most states have requirements for the daycare you choose if the state is providing funding. For instance, the daycare should be licensed with the state. Alternatively, the daycare may be registered with the state entity that provides funding, or it may be a run by the U.S. Military. Your funding entity will give you a list of requirements when you receive funding.An alternative is paying a relative to watch your child, although he or she generally must also be registered with the funding agency and he or she must be over 18 and not a spouse.