 Use a sharp kitchen knife to cut the avocado in half lengthwise.


Make sure that the fruit is clean before you begin.






Place it on a clean, secure surface and use a sharp knife to make the cut.






Twist the two halves apart to separate them.
 Dig the pit out with a large metal dinner spoon.


Alternatively, instead of digging the pit out with a spoon, you could also remove it by gently striking the pit with a sharp, heavy kitchen knife until the knife wedges its way inside. Then, twist the knife slightly to loosen and lift the pit.
 Scoop out the avocado flesh with a spoon or peel the outer skin off the flesh using your fingers.


To peel the skin off, cut the avocado into quarters and wedges. Grab the peel with your fingertips and pull it straight down and off like a banana peel.






You could also lift the flesh out whole by gliding a large metal serving spoon in between the side of the flesh and the skin. Once the flesh is loosen from the peel, simply lift it out.
 Place the avocado flesh in a food processor or blender and pulse until smooth.


An avocado must be turned into puree in order to freeze well. Whole, cut, diced, and even mashed avocados can degrade in terms of appearance, texture, taste, and overall quality when frozen.
 Place the avocado flesh in a food processor or blender and pulse until smooth.


An acidic agent will slow oxidation down and preserve the overall quality of the avocado puree for a longer period of time.
 Leave 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) of empty headspace in the container so that the avocado puree has room to expand as it freezes.Use an airtight plastic container, resealable plastic freezer bag, or vacuum-sealed plastic bag. Make sure that the container is safe for freezer use before using it, though.






Label the package with the name of the contents, the date you froze it, and the amount inside the package.
 When stored in this manner, an avocado can remain good for three to six months.


Once the avocado turns brown or otherwise discolors, it has likely begun to go bad.

