 If you're not qualified, you will be unable to enroll in a PALS class. PALS certification is only given out to medical professionals who work directly with infants and young children.Paramedics, nurses, and doctors whose job involves providing emergency medical care to children are usually required to be PALS certified.;
, PALS courses need to be taken at official AHA training centers. You can locate a training center online by doing a quick web search.Unfortunately, not everyone lives near a training center. If you do not live near a training center, you may have to take an online class instead.
 Signing up is usually simple if you meet qualifications. The training center you're working with should be able to provide you with an application.Courses do have fees, so make sure you budget to pay for the class.
 PALS training courses provide extensive hands-on training in skills such as CPR and resuscitation. You will also learn to better identify medical problems, such as differentiating between respiratory distress and failure. The course is designed to make sure you know when and how to intervene in medical emergencies related to young children and infants.Most PALS training programs are a combination of class discussion and hands-on practice.
There is usually mandatory coursework associated with the class, so make sure you complete assignments on time.
 At the end of a PALS course, you can expect an exam testing your knowledge. You must pass to become certified. Exams are generally around 50 questions and are taken at the end of your PALS course.Review your assignments, materials, and textbooks before the exam. If any practice tests are required, make sure you take these.
 In the event you don't pass, talk to your instructor about retake policies. Usually, at least a 70% is required to pass. Luckily, most courses allow you to retake the exam until you get a passing grade., Once you've successfully completed the exam, you will receive your certification. Depending on the course, you will either receive certification in the mail or on the last day of class.