 Often people confuse dominant dogs with aggressive dogs. A dominant dog wants to be the leader of the pack. An aggressive dog takes it a step further and becomes threatening or physically aggressive. If your dog is aggressive, do not undertake training him by yourself. Aggressive dogs require special training. Seek the assistance of a “dog behaviorist” who specializes in dog behavior.


The trainer will work with your dog and develop a treatment plan specifically for your dog and your family’s situation.Find a Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist (CAAB) in your area by clicking here or for a Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists (Dip ACVB).;
, Dogs can be aggressive because of medical conditions, such as orthopedic problems, adrenal dysfunction, sensory deficits, acute pain, thyroid abnormalities, cognitive problems, seizure disorders, etc. Take your dog to the vet to determine if one of these problems might be causing his aggressive behavior., Dogs become sexually mature between 6-12 months old. In female dogs, this produces a significant rise in the hormone estrogen and in males a surge in testosterone. These changes can create hormonally driven guarding behaviors and fighting for male attention in females. In males a dog’s instinct to mate can lead to fighting and other aggressive behaviors.


Studies are somewhat mixed on the degree to which spaying and neutering reduce aggressive behaviors, but the consensus is that, along with training, both can reduce aggression., Dogs are pack creatures and, therefore, you as the human have to become the pack leader. Pack leaders create rules, limits and boundaries to protect the pack. If a member of the pack doesn’t think the leader is consistent or strong, he or she will instinctually try to keep the pack safe by becoming its leader. This means you have to become the pack leader. You must become the teacher, friend, leader and guardian.


You should be consistent, firm and confident when correcting your dog or he will feel insecure, confused and unhappy.
As the pack leader, you don’t give affection to members of the pack when rules are broken.
And remember that negative attention is still attention and will encourage bad behaviors. For instance, you can’t say, “Don’t jump, Max!” as you pet him., While you should follow the guidance of your trainer, there are a several things you can do to help control your dog at home as he is receiving training. One of the most critical is learning to regulate your emotions and to stay calm. The following are relatively easy solutions to common problems.


If your dog has a habit of running out of the house when the door is opened, prevent access to these areas with child safety gates, fences and so forth.Crate or kennel your dog when he is more relaxed, such as after a walk, or at night when you’re unable to monitor him.
Make sure your dog gets plenty of exercise. Until your dog is trained to obey you on walks, play with him in your backyard or another enclosed, private outdoor space.
Take walks during times that others aren’t out walking in abundance, and make sure your dog wears a basket-style muzzle.Eliminate games like Tug-O-War that encourage aggressive behavior. Play non-adversarial games like fetch instead.If your dog is constantly jumping on you or demanding attention in other ways, use the “sit,” “stay” or “down” command once he knows them and then positively reward him with your attention when he complies. If that doesn’t work, step into your dog sideways when he jumps on you. Your shoulder will be to your dog. Don’t lean back as this encourages your dog’s desire to overtake your space.

