 Play to the personality traits you already have; humor, music and literature tastes, even your clothing style. You will make a more convincing man by shifting your current persona, rather than taking on a completely new identity.;
, You can try low hanging jeans, male shirts and hoodies. Before buying all these new clothes though be sure that they fit correctly and don't stick to your curves.


Keep your undergarments in mind when choosing your male outfit(s). Perhaps you can purchase some male boxers - they make your bum look flatter and less prominent.
 There are several options for this:


Option 1 - Wear baggy upper half clothing, or layer your upper body in tight to loose clothing. The number of layers of either tight or loose tops depends on your preference and how well your bust is hidden.
Wear a sports bra or swimming suit top that doesn't emphasize the breasts. The sports bra or swimming top should be fairly tight but comfortable, enough to hide your breasts under clothing
Wear compression shirts (you can get compression pants too.) These are just tight fitting t-shirts that support your breasts as well as compressing them, and can be considered more comfortable than bandage binding.
Binding. You can do this by wearing one sports bra facing forwards, and one facing backwards, or buying a binder from places like gc2b. Move around after binding to check for comfort; if you are not comfortable, loosen the binding. No matter what breast size you are, however, binding may not be for you as it is rumored to cause long term damage to the back. WARNING: You have to be incredibly careful with binding, if done with ace bandages it can cause tumors in the breasts and extreme lung problems that could result in death. Only bind if you know what you're doing, and are using safe materials.
 Watch other men—your brothers, cousins, friends, and note the details of their behaviour. This ranges from how they speak, where they put their hands, to how they show excitement.


For example, work on sloppier posture. Men don't commonly sit with their knees together or their hands in their lap. Practice walking with a bit of a slouch, not too much though or you won't fool any one! Also try sitting with your legs widespread and your arms out. Don't be afraid to be a little boisterous or clumsy - not all men are ballet dancers.
 You can use make up in a costume style to emphasize male features.
 If your hair is long and you want to follow this through you might want to either consider getting a shorter hair cut, or tie your hair in a low ponytail at the base of your neck. A wig with short hair can also be used.
 You can use make up in a costume style to emphasize male features.


If you wish to create the illusion of facial hair, you can apply eyelash glue to your cheek, chin, or upper lips and then press small pieces of crepe wool, or a similar material, to the glued area.
