 Wash your face, wait an hour, then dab your forehead and nose with a tissue. See if doing so feels particularly dry, oily, or sensitive to the touch. Skin types are usually categorized as normal, dry, oily, and sensitive. Every person's skin is different, and those differences can affect the best ways to keep your skin clear and spotless.Skin types change over time. If your treatments and products stop working, or cause irritation, it may be because your skin has changed.;
, Acne is when your pores become clogged with dirt and grease (black heads and white heads), and the swell, creating noticeable pimples. Grocery and drugstores will have medicines or overnight creams that will clear acne from your face. Follow the instructions for each medicine carefully, and avoid using more than one at a time.


Blackheads and whiteheads refers to the color of each spot. With a black head, your pore is still open, while a white head is closed over with a thin layer of skin (which creates the color). For skin care, they are effectively the same, and do not need different treatments.Acne is most common on your face, but can also appear on other parts of your body, including your neck, chest, back, shoulders, and upper arms.Some products for clearing acne may cause skin irritation. If this occurs, stop using them and switch to a less aggressive treatment.
If drugstore medications aren't working, you should talk to your doctor about stronger treatments.
 Using lukewarm water, carefully rub a soft cloth or sponge on your face with your fingertips. Not only is it good for your skin, it can also leave you feeling refreshed.


Don't scrub your skin. That will only cause irritation, and can make acne more likely.
You should wash twice a day, both when you wake up and before you go to bed. You should also wash your face after you've been sweating, such as after exercising or while wearing a hat or helmet.If you are using additional products, such as toner, moisturizer, or acne treatments, check the instructions on each to see when in the process it is best to wash your face. You don't want to accidentally wash any of them off.
 Toner is a clarifying lotion that helps clear the face after washing by removing excess oil and reducing the size of your pores. Put some on a cotton swab or tissue, and spread around your face. Choosing the right toner will depend on your skin type and color.
 As their name suggests, moisturizers prevent and treat dry skin. You will want to dab on just a little, and spread it around your face. There are many different kinds of moisturizer available, and your particular skin type will dictate which type is best for you., There are a variety of different ways to exfoliate effectively, depending on your skin type. Exfoliation removes dead skin cells, which can build up as your skin renews itself. These dead skin cells can clog pores and cause spots.


Just like washing, be sure to scrub gently and to apply moisturizer afterwards, otherwise your skin will dry out.
 You should eat lots of fruit and vegetables, the fresher the better. Fresh fruits and vegetables have key vitamins and minerals that will keep your skin healthy. Nuts, whole grains, and fatty fish also contain nutrients for good skin.Avoid refined carbohydrates, like white bread or cakes, whole fat dairy products, and sweets.
 There is no right amount of water, as each person's needs are different depending on their size, location, and activity level. One good rule of thumb is to drink between half an ounce and one ounce of water for each pound you weigh. If you live in a hot climate and exercise a lot, you will want more. On the other hand, if you live in a colder climate, and don't exercise as much, you don't need as much.You can also supplement this with fruits and vegetables that contain lots of water, such as cucumbers, watermelons, lettuce, and celery., Your hands are dirty, and touching your face will transfer all that dirt and bacteria to your face. That just adds up to more oils, and more spots. Remember that a spot is just a colony of germs.


Keep your fingernails trimmed. Fingernails are cesspools of bacteria, and you will want to reduce the chance of accidentally scratching your face and causing further infection. Shorter fingernails will have less space for trapping bacteria.
 You don't have to stop wearing makeup, but if you do wear it, make sure to apply it lightly. Thick makeup will clog your pores and create more spots. When you no longer need it, wash it off immediately and thoroughly.


Try finding makeup that is water-based, as it is easier to remove and tends to clog pores less often than oil-based makeup.

