 This can include name, address, phone number, and email. Before applying to different countries, check personal information requirements as they may vary.


For example, you may need to provide your marital status, national origin or picture.
 You can choose to provide course names and GPA in addition to the degree, institution and dates attended. On a resume, this would be the most educational information ever needed, but on a CV you can include more, such as:



Dissertation or thesis. Describe your work and research along with names of advisors.

Awards, honors, fellowships, scholarships and grants. Provide details of each of these types of honors including what you did to achieve them.

Special training and certifications. List names, dates and institutions for training and certifications not associated with your formal education.

Academic service. This includes committees and clubs you contributed to in your university.
 You can choose to list them all chronologically or break them down into subsections such as “Academic projects”, “Field Experience”, “Research”, etc. While listing, include name of company, title, dates of employment and all tasks, projects and special accomplishments.
 List all publications and works you have either written yourself or contributed to. Add all presentations and public speaking engagements including topic, institution or event, and date. When listing, provide all authors’ names, title, journal, inclusive pages, and year.


Do not add any works that have not been accepted or were just submitted.
 Since you have almost unlimited space on a CV, include any supplemental information that paints a picture of your professional or academic life. Any additional information that could catch the ye of a recruiter or hiring manager should be included.



Memberships or professional affiliations. Any affiliations outside of a university, preferably those that are nationally or internationally recognized.

Community service/volunteerism. Show what you do in your spare time and how you choose to give back to your community.

Languages. List all languages and your proficiency in each.

References. Provide name, title, company and contact information.

