 Many girls associate puberty with getting their first period. But puberty, which is when you start making the change from child to adult, starts long before this step and can take years.Puberty usually comes with the development of body hair and changes to the following:


Body shape
Breasts
Your mind and thought patterns.;
, In most girls, puberty begins at about age 8 when her body releases a hormone called gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH).This tells your body to start the process of puberty, though it may take a while for you to start seeing physical or mental changes.Be aware that most girls will go through puberty between the ages of 8 and 13 and that it will end by about age 14. After the release of the GnRH, the first sign is usually developing breast buds, followed by sprouting body hair. You will usually get your period about two years after you first notice breast buds.
Understand that there is nothing wrong in watching your body for signs of puberty. This may help prepare you to handle the changes you are about to experience.
 There is a wide age range that girls go through puberty. Every girl’s body is different and physical factors such as genetics or weight can affect when you start puberty. Understanding these factors may help you better anticipate when you’ll experience each phase of puberty. Some of the factors that may alter puberty for you are:


Race. African-American girls often reach puberty earlier than Caucasian, or white, girls.Weight. If you weigh more, you are more likely to go through puberty at an earlier age.
Social factors. The lack of an adult male figure, mother-daughter relationship, living in a stressful home environment, can make a girl go through puberty more quickly. In addition, some people think that exposure to overt sexuality in the media may contribute to early puberty in girls.Age of female relatives starting puberty. Most girls start puberty at around the same age as their mother, sisters, grandmother, or aunts., If you are concerned about your development, schedule an appointment with your doctor. She can examine you and figure out if you are developing normally and when you might expect to see the signs of puberty on your body.


Ask your doctor any questions you might have about the stages of puberty or your personal development. Don’t be ashamed or embarrassed to talk to your doctor about your body.
 The first place most girls notice the physical signs of puberty is on the breasts. This process, which is also called thelarche, usually happens around the age of 9 or 10. You may recognize “breast buds” that are a nickel-sized lump under each breast.Look at your chest and feel your breasts gently with your hands and fingers. Breast buds feel like a small, firm, and tender lump in your breasts.Don’t worry about checking your breasts by hand or if you feel something. It’s completely normal to explore your body as you develop and beyond. Although you may wonder if the bud is a cyst, tumor, or abscess, it likely isn’t and you can rest assured that you’re starting puberty.However, if you have a lump in your breast that is very painful, red, warm, or has a discharge, tell your parents so that they can take you to see your doctor.
Be aware that one breast or bud may develop more quickly than the other. This is also something that is completely normal.
Consider a bra if your breasts are sensitive or you feel more comfortable wearing one. This isn’t necessary at this stage of your development, but it may be exciting.
Continue checking your breasts as you like. You may notice that your breast tissue gets bigger and less firm over the next couple of years., The second sign that you may be starting puberty is pubarche or growing pubic hair on your labia, which is the fold of skin surrounding your vagina. In some cases, you might have pubic hair before breast buds, but either is usually a clear way to tell that you’re starting puberty.Examine your pubic area, which is around your vagina, using your hands and fingers for signs of hair. You may not have much hair and it may be straight and soft. As you get older, the hair will become thicker, darker, coarser, and curlier. It will also grow up your abdomen and to your inner thighs in a triangle shape.Remember that you are not doing anything wrong by exploring your vagina or labia for pubic hair., Puberty means you’re gradually becoming a woman and taking on the shape of one. In addition to breast buds, you may notice that your shape changes, too.Look for changes to these other parts of your body, which often includes getting rounder or slightly bigger:


Hips
Thighs
Arms
Legs
Hands
Feet, About two years after you start growing pubic hair, you will probably notice hair growing under your arms as well.Watch for similar growth patterns of armpit hair as you did with pubic hair: it may be sparse and soft at first and then gradually get thicker, darker, and more coarse.Depending on your comfort level, you may or may not want to start shaving your armpit hair, which can encourage bacteria growth and body odor. You may also want to consider wearing deodorant once you start developing armpit hair to prevent body odor., Within the first two years of developing breast buds, you will likely go through menarche, or getting your first period.But about six months before this happens, you will likely notice that you have an increased amount of clear vaginal discharge.Check your underwear for signs of the discharge. Having discharge is completely common and normal, unless it has a heavy odor or itches. In these cases, see a doctor.
 For many girls, getting their period is most anticipated step of puberty and usually happens anywhere between the ages of 9 and 16.Once you notice vaginal discharge, expect your period to start within six months.Be aware that it’s common for your period, or menstrual cycle, to be irregular for the first couple of years after your first menstruate. Keeping track of your period on a calendar may help you figure out your personal schedule.
Get the supplies you need to handle your periods. You may want to wear pads or tampons or may just need a liner.
Realize that you may feel discomfort such as cramps, backaches, or headaches before and during your period. You may also experience bloating because of hormonal changes. In many cases, you can take an over-the-counter pain reliever to deal with any discomfort.
 Most teens will get breakouts of pimples or even acne. This is a result of extra sebum, or oil, production that happens during puberty.Wash your face with a mild soap or cleanser to get rid of excess sebum and reduce breakouts.
Ask your doctor about over-the-counter or prescription medications if your breakouts are severe. It’s completely common to have acne during puberty, but because it’s often an emotional time, breakouts may make problems or feelings worse.
 At some point during puberty, you will experience a growth spurt that will last two to three years. During this time, you may grow more than four inches in a year!You may also gain some weight and notice other changes in your body's shape, such as a curvier figure and wider hips.
 Puberty causes more hormones to gush through your system. These can affect your brain and change your emotions and thoughts. If you notice that your emotions, thoughts, and feelings are different or changing, it is a good sign that you are starting puberty.If you are feeling extreme mood changes or feelings of anxiety or depression, then talk to your parents or doctor. Some emotional changes you may experience are:


Feeling sensitive about your body’s changes or to other things like criticism or teasing
Having much more intense emotions such as being very jealous of another girl when you wouldn’t have been before
Going through frequent mood swings where you’re up one minute and down the next.Experiencing body image issues
Having less self-esteem or less self-confidence
Feeling anxiety or even depression., In addition to emotions, your brain is causing your thought patterns to develop and mature. Some of the following new thought patterns can indicate that you’re starting puberty:


Understanding more complex subjects or matters, such as the consequences of not doing homework
Making more of your own moral choices, such as knowing when it’s right to stand up for someone else who is being bullied.
Having a better sense of your likes and dislikes., Puberty means you’re growing into an adult, and you may find that you have a much better sense of yourself and who you are. Remember that these changes are normal, but may cause some confusion or anxiety. Give yourself a chance to have new experiences to see how they fit into your sense of self.Search for more independence by asking your parents to let you stay out later or go alone to the movies with friends. These can be key to helping you cope with puberty and grow up.
Recognize that your friends may change as you figure out who you are.
Make your own decisions as far as your parents will allow. For example, this might include picking out your own clothing every day.
Understand that conflict is any part of growing up and going through puberty. You may start noticing that you have conflicts with more people such as your parents and friends as you start puberty., You may also notice that you are curious about your body and sexuality as you start and continue to go through puberty. You may want to explore your body and might even masturbate sometimes, too. Both of these are completely normal, common, and nothing about which to be ashamed.Avoid believing myths about masturbation. It won’t make hair grow on your hands, cause you to go blind or develop emotional problems, and it won’t make you infertile.Ask a friend, family member, or medical professional about your feelings of interest about your body or masturbation. You may feel embarrassed, but remember that your feelings are totally normal.
 The ultimate reason every person goes through puberty is to prepare your body for reproduction. Since reproduction is often the product of sex, it’s normal to feel sexual attraction to another person.Consider dating if you feel attracted to someone and realize that because of your hormones, your feelings about the person may change overnight. Keep in mind the basis of a solid relationship are someone who supports, trusts, and appreciates you just as you are.
Talk to your parents, friends, family, or a medical professional if you have questions about attraction, dating, kissing, and even sex.If you are thinking about having sex, make sure that you talk to your parents, doctor, or another trusted adult to help guide you in your decision and make sure you are protected from pregnancy and diseases if you choose to have sex.

