 Think about behaviors that are absolutely unacceptable and serious in your view. Some example ideas are lying, deliberate disobedience/defiance, stealing, or violence. You can choose whatever behaviors you consider serious enough to deserve the ultimate punishment (when spanking is used as a last resort, that is how it should be viewed of, as the ultimate sanction).;
, Discuss the rules, what behaviors could result in a spanking, and how the spanking will be carried out. Be sure that the conversation is open, and the child feels free to ask any questions he/she may have, or to voice any comments.
 This should be done by having the child sit on a chair or stand in the corner facing the corner, and should be in a boring area. While the child is in time-out, take some deep breaths and ensure you are calm.
 Consider the child's age, personality, the details of the offense, and whether it is a repeat or first time offense. Remind yourself of the many alternatives to spanking, such as time-out, grounding, removal of privileges, extra chores, etc. Consider even if a scolding/lecture would suffice.
 Then enforce it.
, A spanking should always be given on the bare bottom for several reasons; the child will feel each spank more, you can see the child's bottom as you spank, and spanking over pants, especially jeans, can just plain hurt the parent's hand more than the child's bottom! Moreover, a spanking on the bare bottom is the fairest way to spank (because there is no influence of the child's clothing), and it is also a more personal and many feel more effective method of discipline.
 Sit down on an armless chair, a couch or a bed and pull the child over your lap.
 Make sure your child isn't squirming.
 Keep your hand relaxed, especially at the wrist. There is no need to lift your arm high between each spank. A spank delivered from moderate height and with a flexible wrist will be stingy and painful without unnecessary force. Keep a safe distance from the genital area, the tailbone and the kidneys of the child.
, During the spanking, it is important to pay attention to the child's bottom and the child's reactions. Give at least 1x the child's age in spanks. It is permissible to give at most 2-3x the child's age in spanks, except in extreme circumstances. If you give more than 1x the child's age (for more serious misbehaviours only), it can be useful to make short stops (not more than 2) with a short comment why another series of swats is given (i. e first series for lying, second for being rude). DO NOT stop spanking because the child whines/begs you to or starts crying. If you stop because of them whining and begging, it teaches them you won't follow all the way through with your word and consequences, which will be disastrous. If you stop immediately when they start crying, it teaches children that the sooner in the spanking they cry (even if it's fake crying) the less painful it will be (and the more ineffective). However, you should NEVER punish crying before, during, or after a spanking. It is completely natural.
 It is very recommendable to hug/hold the child during this time.
 Discuss why they were spanked. Tell them that you spanked because you love them and that discipline is part of that love. Emphasize that they can prevent future spankings by thinking about their actions and making good choices. Tell them that they have paid the price for their misbehavior and they are completely forgiven now,.
 Don't mention it again.

