 You will be making your seal on this, and then peeling it off. Make sure that the surface is smooth, and that it can take heat. A silicone mat, a glass tile, or a plate would be ideal.You can also use a sheet of aluminum foil or a metal baking sheet.In a pinch, you can also use a sheet of paper.Keep in mind that, after you peel the seal away, some of the paper will cling to the back.
This method is great if you need to make a lot of wax seals.
 You can use plain hot glue sticks or colored hot glue sticks. Keep in mind that you can always paint your seal when you are done. Some arts and crafts stores also sell special wax sticks meant for hot glue guns and making wax seals; you can use one of those instead.


Crayons are not recommended, as they can damage your hot glue gun. If you do decide to use a crayon, gently push the it down into the hot glue gun, otherwise, it may leak out the sides.Consider placing your stamp on top of an ice pack. This will chill your stamp down, and help the hot glue seal set faster.Your stamp can chill while your hot glue heats up!

, It should be about the same size as your stamp. Keep in mind that the glue will spread about ⅛-inch (0.32 centimeter) after you press the stamp into it., During this time, you can also rub the surface of the stamp with some vegetable oil. This is especially recommended for stamps that are not made out of metal. Hot glue won't stick well to metal, but it will stick to other materials, including clay., This happens sometimes. Let the glue or wax harden up first, then pick it away with a pin or needle.


You can use a metal, store-bought stamp meant for making wax seals, or you can make your own stamp using one of the methods above.
 If you made yours on a sheet of paper, you will likely have bits of paper clinging to the back. This should not be a problem, since you will be gluing the seal onto another surface anyway.
 Unless you used a colored hot glue stick, your wax seal will turn out clear or frosted-white. If you want, you can paint it a more interesting color.Typical wax seal colors are red, black, or gold, but you can use any color you want.


If you oiled your stamp, you will need to wash the seal with soap and water, or the paint won't stick.If you are making a lot of seals, you can also spray paint them instead. Use a glossy color for the most realistic effect.
 Put a drop of hot glue onto the back of the wax seal, then press it onto a letter, roll of parchment, or envelope. You can also use it as a decoration for packages tied with ribbon or twine.


Be sure to use a low-temp hot glue gun for this; a high-temp hot glue gun will melt the seal.If you are shot on hot glue gun sticks, you can use glue dots instead.