 The costs of hiring one can be relatively high depending on a number of factors, such as the size of your home, the state of your home, and where you live.Although it might be expensive, if you can afford it, this cost may be made up for in the selling price. Especially if you can't or are unwilling to do the work yourself.
 If a professional staging is out of your budget, consider asking for a consultation only. Many professional stagers will give you a free consultation anyway, but some are also willing to simply advise you on the things that you should change before showing your home for a more minimal cost.If you opt for this, be honest with the stager. Don’t take advantage of them by having them come by for a first consultation and then ignoring their calls and emails after they’ve given you advice.
 Most professionals will have either physical or on-line portfolios, which will allow you to see some of their past work. Everyone has a different style, and you may have something different in mind than what a particular stager can offer., Most experienced stagers will be happy to offer your references. However, remember that they would not recommend a reference if they weren’t sure that it would be a positive reference. Therefore, you should also search online for the name and city of this stager (or their company name) to read other reviews.


If you can’t find them online, call around to some local real estate agencies to see if they have heard anything about this stager. Don’t forget to ask your personal realtor, if you have one.
 Don’t just go with the first option. Instead, choose several possible candidates, and interview them about their rates, time requirements, whether they will require you to buy new furniture, whether they will include the outside as well, etc.If your stagers know they are one of a few candidates, they may also offer you a better price.
Make sure your chosen professional has knowledge of the real estate market. Being a good stager requires one to know trends in the real estate market, not just how to decorate nicely., Most professionals will do this for you, but if your chosen professional doesn’t offer one, then draft an agreement in writing, which states when they will be finished, what services they will provide, what the cost will be, etc.


It may be a bit awkward, but this will protect you from being taken advantage of.

