 The general consensus is that suspenders with button fasteners are best for professional settings and style, but you can either opt for y-back or x-back styles.Y-back suspenders form a "y" on your back and x-back suspenders form an "x." Typically, x-back suspenders provide better support because they can be spaced wider apart, but both styles can be adjusted so that the straps hold your trousers up and do not slip off the shoulders.
You can also get suspenders with metal clips or metal clamps. These are generally considered less professional and less classy. Moreover, they can also damage the fabric of your trousers over time. If your trousers do not have button holes for suspenders, however, you may want to resort to one of these styles.;
,


The junction of y-back suspenders should be above the back center of your trousers. Similarly, the intersection of x-back suspenders should also be above the back center of your trousers.
For y-back suspenders, the fasteners should be attached to your trousers directly above the first two inner belt loops.
For x-back suspenders, the fasteners can either be placed above the two innermost belt loops or further apart so that they span about 1/3 of the distance across the back of your trousers. Anchoring the suspenders further apart will provide better support.
Attaching your suspenders to your trousers before you put your trousers on will make it easier to put the suspenders on.
 Pull your pants up so that they come as high as possible.


Note that high-waisted trousers are typically considered best for suspenders. Low-waisted pants are designed to work with a belt and offer less support for your stomach. High-waisted trousers are often designed for use with suspenders.
 Suspenders make a belt unnecessary, so wearing one will be overkill.


Additionally, wearing a belt with suspenders is also considered a fashion faux pas.
 X-back suspenders will criss-cross over your back while y-back suspenders will come straight up the middle before splitting off and coming over your shoulders.


The intersection of your x-back suspenders should be at the middle of your back or just below it. Adjust your straps if this is not the case.
The junction of your y-back suspenders should fall just above the middle of your back. Having it too low will cause the suspenders to slip off your shoulders. Adjust the straps if necessary.



The front ends of your suspenders will likely be spaced further apart than the ends attached to the back.
 Button or clasp your suspenders to the front of your trousers. Make sure that the straps are spaced evenly apart from the center of your trousers.


Make any final adjustments as needed. The suspenders should feel secure yet comfortable.



Suspenders used to be thought of as underwear, and the rule was that only you and your significant other should ever see them. While that limit has been lifted in contemporary times, you still need to keep them hidden for business meetings and formal events.
A suit, complete with a suit jacket, suit pants, and button-down shirt, is standard for this look. A suit vest is optional, however. Wearing a vest adds more class to your look for special occasions, but vests might be too formal for a simple trip to the office. Standard dress loafers are also recommended.
 For a look that is more relaxed yet still structured, wear patterned or colored suspenders without a suit jacket.


Seersucker suspenders are a type of printed suspender. Striped patterns are the most common, but solid colors and other small prints can also be used.
You can wear this look with linen suit pants or khaki trousers. Both can be used to create a semi-professional appearance.
A collared button-down shirt is still preferable for this style, but for a modern and casual twist, you can slip a fitted sweater over the shirt and beneath your suspenders. Go for a neutral color, like brown or black, or a deep color like burgundy or navy blue.
Stick with dress loafers. Since this look is still meant to appear somewhat business-like, brown or black dress loafers are the way to go.



This style is actually a reference to the skinhead subculture that surfaced among working class youths in London during the 1960s.
Rugged, durable pants like jeans or corduroy trousers are better for this look since it is inspired by the working class rather than the business class.
Be somewhat slack with your shirt. A tucked-in, button-down shirt is still the classic way to go, but consider leaving the top few buttons undone or rolling up the sleeves. You can also experiment with flannel print and solid colors alike.
Keep your shoes fairly durable. Opt for sneakers or boots over loafers.
 Wear rugged suspenders with leather tipping alongside tweed trousers, a button-down shirt, and old-world accessories.You can either go with leather-tipped suspenders or suspenders made completely from leather.
Tweed trousers have the most old-fashioned appearance, but you could update the look slightly by wearing the suspenders with dark jeans.
Complete the look with a driving cap, bow tie, and trench coat. Stick with leather loafers or leather dress boots.



This is a somewhat playful professional look since suspenders are not part of standard business attire for women.
A suit jacket is not necessary, but closed-toe dress heels or loafers are recommended.
Your button-down shirt can be simple with clean-cut lines, or it can be a little feminine with details like ruffles or patterns. If you wear a patterned shirt, however, make sure that you do not have patterned suspenders that could clash.
 Attach your suspenders to a pair of rugged jeans and slip a t-shirt or tank top on underneath.


This is definitely a casual look rather than a professional look.
You can wear sneakers, loafers, or flats with this style, but heels and sandals may look out of place. The idea is to go for a somewhat tough, rugged look, and your footwear will help create the right ambiance.
 Attach suspenders to high-waisted or nautical shorts. Slip on a comfortable t-shirt or tank top beneath the suspenders.


If you have nautical shorts, consider wearing something like a red striped tank with them. Any casual, somewhat fitted tank top or t-shirt will usually work, though.
Have fun with your footwear. While this look is still meant to be casual, it is slightly more girly than the suspenders-and-jeans ensemble. As a result, you can look for something like a wedge heel, a fun sandal, or an embellished flat.
 The most feminine way to wear suspenders is with a skirt. Wear a nice t-shirt beneath and keep the outfit looking fairly simple.


Consider matching the suspender color to the skirt color to mimic the jumper look. This style adds girlish, innocent charm to your ensemble.
Avoid letting your outfit look too busy. At most, go for a single pattern and two solid colors.
Wear simple yet cute footwear. Flat sandals or kitten-heel sandals work well, as do decorative flats.
 Since suspenders are traditionally considered menswear, accessorize any outfit with feminine details.


Think along the lines of dangling earrings, delicate necklaces, cocktail rings, and bangle bracelets.
The use of feminine jewelry with masculine suspenders creates appealing, fashion-forward contrast.

