 Don't force a child to stay in bed, but limit their activities. Try reading to them, playing a board game in bed, or keeping them otherwise calm and still.Ample rest will help them recover more quickly.


Roll young children and babies who are vomiting onto their side or stomach to prevent them from choking on vomit., Avoid strong smells and other triggers when your child is nauseated. Driving, flickering lights, smoke, perfume and other strong smells, and hot humid rooms can worsen nausea and vomiting., Some vomiting in children can be caused by motion sickness, the queasy feeling you get when traveling. If the child’s vomiting is associated with being in the car, on a plane, or on a boat and occurs at no other time, they likely have motion sickness. Try to minimize motion sickness during traveling by:Letting the child sit in the front passenger’s seat of the car if they’re over 12 years old – this usually improves motion sickness over being in the back seat.
When flying, get a seat over the front edge of the wing, and direct airflow from the vent onto your child’s face.
On a boat, get a cabin near water level at the front or middle of the boat.
Face forward on trains, and try to sit next to a window near the front of the train.
Give them dry crackers and a flat soda like ginger ale.
If the child is old enough to follow directions, tell them to keep their head still (don’t read or watch videos), and focus on a stationary object or the horizon in the distance.
Giving a child over 2 years old Dramamine for Kids or similar medicine approved for children., Vomiting can be both uncomfortable and scary for a child. Give them extra care by spending time with them doing calm activities like reading or playing board games. Comfort them physically by stroking their hair, holding their hand, or rubbing their back – especially while they’re vomiting. Help them get cleaned up afterwards by wiping their forehead with a cool cloth, or helping them wash out their mouth with water.
 “Stomach flu” germs get airborne when a child vomits or has diarrhea and can remain contagious on household surfaces even after the child gets well. To prevent re-infection or infecting others, clean all household surfaces once your child has stopped vomiting and having diarrhea.Use disinfectant products that work against viruses, clean all surfaces with 1 cup bleach in 1 quart water, or use a steam cleaner.


Be careful when having visitors over the next two weeks, especially children, since someone with rotavirus or norovirus may remain contagious over this time period, even if they have recovered. 