 If you're projecting your relationship into the world, then you've definitely crossed a threshold of seriousness. This isn't just making out in public. Displaying your relationship with hand-holding or cuddling while with friends will prove that you're ready to be intimate with her. It also makes it clear to anyone around that you and her are together. No one will try anything with you or her, meaning that you're in it together.


This also might mean being "public" with your relationship using the internet. Posting photos with each other is definitely a step in your relationship. Because a great deal of socialization occurs on Facebook and Instagram now, it's important that if you're serious about your relationship, you aren't afraid to be share photos featuring the girl that you're seeing.
 After a few dates, she'll definitely be mentioning you to your friends, especially if things are going well. It's only a matter of time before you meet them, and you have to be prepared to impress. It shouldn't feel very different from your initial date with her. Dress well, ask questions about her friends' interests, and be charismatic without schmoozing.


It's very important not to be too touchy with her around her girlfriends. They may not be comfortable seeing you two all over each other. It should feel different to socialize with her friends, and you have to be sensitive to them, as well as her. If you treat them like friends, then they'll slowly become your friends.
Even though her friends will probably have temperaments that align closely to hers, you definitely don't want to offend them.Avoid inflammatory topics like politics on the first meeting. You also shouldn't get too graphic or offensive. She might have an inappropriate sense of humor, but you don't know if her friends will. It's best to play it safe and leave the filthy stuff at the door.
 Once you've gotten past the initial stages of dating, she'll have made it clear that she's interested in you. At this point, you can worry less about impressing her and more about making her trust you.Soon enough, she will look to you to protect her from emotional harm. If you don't have the capacity to care for her, then your relationship probably won't progress into anything more than a casual fling.


She'll be able to trust you if she knows that you've been listening to her. This means that you'll be able to remember a wide variety of details about her past or her current troubles. If she doesn't feel that you're really paying attention to her, then she'll quickly push you away. Remember that if you listen to her, she'll want to listen to you as well.
 If you're planning on actually things to the next level, you'll have to talk about your future as a couple.While the DTR conversation can be a daunting one, there's no way to move from casual dating to a more sustainable relationship without having it. Here are some tips for figuring out "the talk." Remember that there is no right or wrong way to have this conversation.


Assess how long it has been, as well as how often you see each other. This is where you can find some clarity. If you only see each other once or twice a week, then you may not feel the rush to talk. If you talk or see each other every day, however, you might want to move the DTR talk up sooner.
If you're both on the same page about sex, then you'll probably be able to prolong the talk for longer. When one of you wants to wait, however, this might make the talk more immediate. Remember that if you haven't decided that you're exclusive, you aren't exclusive.
When you do talk, make sure that you're blunt with your terms. "Serious" and "casual" have different definitions for everyone. Make sure that you're not just asking her about what she wants; it's also important that you also state what you want. You want to stand up for yourself without being insensitive.
Remember that the DTR talk is ongoing. Even though you may have come up with a temporary agreement about the state of your relationship, things will change over time. As long as you're honest with each other about shifts in your relationship, no one will feel deceived.

