 There are numerous professional stock photo companies online that allow you to peruse their catalogues and purchase rights to stock photos created by professional photographers.The first thing you need to look at is how to purchase images from the company. Some stock photo companies allow you to purchase a license for a single image, while others require you to become a member or buy a package that includes the potential usage of multiple images.
If you decide you want to use a stock photo for your self-published book cover, check the usage restrictions on each stock photo service to make sure the service allows use of photos for self-published books.
Some companies restrict usage based on the genre of book you've written. Specifically, some stock photo services don't allow their images to be used for erotic novels.
Check out some of the photos available and find several that might meet your needs. Exclusive rights may not be an option for some of them.
 Stock photo services typically offer several different levels of licensing agreements so you can find one that meets your needs and your budget. You may be able to find something that falls short of complete ownership but still accomplishes your goals.Keep in mind that different levels of exclusivity also vary in price. Even though you want ownership of your cover, an exclusive license may not be in your budget – meaning you'd have to settle for less than complete ownership or pursue another method of getting a design for your cover.
Royalty free images are among the most common licenses granted by stock photo companies, and give you the right to unlimited use of the image. However, this license is not exclusive (meaning others also could use it), and you have no ownership rights in the image itself.
If you're looking for ownership of your self-published book cover, you probably don't want to go with a royalty-free license, even though you can get one relatively cheaply.
The photo is only part of the cover. You still have some design work to do in terms of placing the title, your name, and any other material on the front and back covers.
 While a rights-managed license doesn't give you complete ownership of your self-published book cover, it does grant you the exclusive right to use the image as long as the book is sold.With a rights-managed license, you have the exclusive right to use the image, which may be as good as ownership in terms of not having to worry about any other self-published book having the same image on its cover.
However, rights-managed licenses also tend to be expensive – maybe even prohibitively so, depending on your budget.
Keep in mind that not even large corporations buy rights-managed licenses as a general rule due to their cost.
 One of the trickiest parts of purchasing a rights-managed license for a self-published book cover is determining how long you need exclusive rights to the image. Other terms such as geographic area of use also will potentially affect the cost of the license.The license you buy typically is tailored to your specific use. In some instances, this may mean that your rights are only exclusive in regard to book covers – meaning no one else can use the image for their book cover – but the image remains free for others to license and use in other fields.
If you're self publishing, you may have difficulty being able to pin down the exact territory of your use or the length of time you want your license to last.
If you're using a print-on-demand service, you'll have even more difficulty if the exclusivity of the license depends on the number of copies you've distributed. For example, if you get a rights-managed license for 100,000 copies of your book, and you sell 100,001 copies, you wouldn't have the right to use the image on that last copy.
However, if you only intend to sell a particular number of copies of your book, or sell it only for a limited period of time, these issues may not be a problem.

