 Slowly pour a small amount of the epoxy stripper into a metal container or can.Since the product should be applied incrementally to small surfaces areas, do not pour out a large amount at once. Apply the product to surfaces up to 9 square feet (0.83 square meters)., Dip a paintbrush into the stripper. Brush the stripper onto the surface that has been painted with epoxy paint. Be sure to brush in one direction only onto small surfaces., The paint stripper should remain on the epoxy paint for about 15 minutes. This will give the product enough time to break down the chemicals in the epoxy.The instructions may vary from product to product. Be sure to follow the suggested time in the instructions.
During this time, consider leaving the room to limit your exposure to the paint stripper.
 After 15 minutes, use a paint scraper to scratch the surface of the paint. If the paint lifts away, it is ready for removal. You may have to apply multiple coats to fully remove the epoxy paint., Use a paint scraper to lift away the epoxy paint. At a shallow angle, place the metal blade of the scraper onto the surface of the epoxy paint. Apply pressure and push the scraper away from you to lift up the paint.If you are working with wood, be sure to move in the direction of the wood grain with a plastic scraper to avoid damaging the surface.
Consider using a toothpick or a toothbrush to remove the epoxy paint in nooks and recesses., After you have removed the paint, wipe the surface area with a damp washcloth or towel to neutralize the pH balance. Caustic strippers can be cleaned with vinegar and water, while others can be cleaned with mineral spirits. If you used a methylene chloride stripper, use mineral spirits to clean the surface as water can damage the surface of wood., Paint strippers can disturb the pH balance on a wooden surface, which can cause problems if you wish to repaint the area. Use pH papers to check for a pH level of 7.Place the test paper on the damp surface of the clean surface, and compare the reading on the paper to the pH key provided.If the pH level is too high, wash the area again and test once more in a few days., After you have removed the epoxy paint, let the surface area dry. Point fans toward the surface to help speed up the drying process. Depending on your climate, it may take up to a week to completely dry., Carefully pour any unused stripper back into the container, and wash your tools and work surfaces with water and soap. After removing your protective gloves, wash your hands with cold water and soap.