 A kit should contain the poly (polyester) resin, hardener (catalyst), and cloth for structural strength. You can buy kits from home centers, department stores, or auto parts stores in various sizes depending on your project.


What exactly is fiberglass? Fiberglass starts off as a liquid. This liquid is then extruded through tiny little holes, which turn it into thin strands of threads. These threads are coated with a chemical solution and bundled together to form rovings, or long bundles of fibre. Add a bit of resin and you have strong, durable, flexible fiberglass.;
, If you are making fiberglass for project, like a simple box, bowl, or other shape, you probably want to assemble a "mold" or "form" to make sure that your fiberglass, which starts off in liquid form, adheres to the right shape. If you find yourself doing a fiberglass repair on a boat or car, for example, consider taping off the repair site and apply the resinous fiberglass coating directly to the repair site.
 Blocks of styrofoam or polystyrene foam work best for objects that have curves or other non-linear forms. Simply cut or shave the foam into your desired shape, such as a fountain bottom, bird bath, or dome. Cover the material with wax paper, and use wax to seal and attach all joints, as well as for smoothing rough seams.
 These stiffer materials are best for large projects like dog houses or even boats. For these molds, cover the entire surface either with wax paper, or a good, even coat of paraffin wax. Carnauba wax can also be used as a substitute for paraffin wax.
 The material will become very flexible when the resin is applied, so don't worry if you cannot get it to conform to an exact shape while it is dry.
 A large can or metal bowl will work, but it should be of a disposable nature. Resin can be mixed in a clean plastic container, but because it generates heat when it sets, extreme care should be taken if you use one.
 In a kit, you will have a pre-measured "can" or bucket of resin, and a pre-measured "tube" (like a glue tube) of hardener, so you can safely use an equal proportion of each material, i.e., half your hardener and half your resin, or some other proportion.
, The mat (or cloth) will seem to melt into the resin as you spread it, and you can use the brush and additional coats of resin to build up the layer of fiberglass to a thickness of up to 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm).


As you spread the resin over the fiberglass mat, make sure to apply it over corners and weak spots with the same coverage that you would over flat, easy-to-reach surfaces. If you fail to get good coverage in corners, for example, your fiberglass will eventually develop weaknesses in those corners.
 Continue working until you have used all of your material.
 Acetone is great for cleaning up fiberglass because it's strong and evaporates quickly. Just be sure not to soak any portion of the fiberglass in acetone, and keep acetone away from any caulking, plastic, or rubber., Fiberglass is usually applied in layers until it is thick enough to give the required strength you desire to achieve. Depending on your project (leaving room for flexibility of course), try at least 3 layers, but no more than 10.If possible, try laying down the fiberglass mat with the fibers oriented in different directions with each new layer. Fiberglass is strong across its axis but weak along its axis; if you can orient the strand mat so that its weak points are distributed along various axes instead of a single axis, you'll end up with much stronger fiberglass.
Sand in between steps to eliminate rough spots where mat or cloth may project through the resin.
 Then, paint with a polyurethane or alkyd enamel, if desired.
 If you have covered your form or mold with wax paper or paraffin wax, you should be able to peel the form from inside the shape, or peel the shape off of the form. The fiberglass will not stick to the wax.

