 Regardless of what the situation is, remember: you get to set your own boundaries. Don’t feel bullied or guilt-tripped into doing something that you don’t want to do. Honor yourself by recognizing that you aren’t obligated to go any farther than you want to. This could mean:Not engaging in sexual acts that you aren’t ready for.
Not repeating acts that you’ve already performed and didn’t like.
Taking a break from making out entirely.
Insisting on specific conditions, like contraception or other safe-sex practices.
 Tell your boyfriend exactly what you’re willing and unwilling to do. It’s his responsibility to honor your wishes, so let him know what they are. Be firm about them and make it clear that there is no negotiating.Don’t feel like you can’t speak up once the two of you get started. It’s your right to slow things down at any time, whether that’s before or during your makeout session.
Even if you thought you were game for something at the start, tell him right away if you change your mind as things move forward.
 Let him know why you feel the need to slow down, or why a certain act is a no-no. However, don’t feel obligated to do this. Remember: it’s his responsibility to ease off if you insist on it, with or without an explanation. With that said, keep in mind:Letting him know why you feel the way you do can help him better understand and respond to your needs.
For instance, if you’re reluctant to get too heavy because of trust issues, he will now know that this is an area he needs to work on in general, and not just to get what he wants.
If he’s really a stand-up guy, you could also ask him to help you slow things down if you have a tendency to let yourself get carried away in the moment, only to regret it later.
 Don’t tolerate his insistence on speeding back up if he ignores your demands. Whether you explained things in detail or simply said, “No,” part ways with him if he proves himself to be incapable of honoring your wishes. Even if you still like him, recognize that you would be better off with someone who is willing to match your own speed instead of insisting on his own.Don’t be afraid to call other people in for help if he refuses to listen. Keep your phone handy, or call for help if there are other people in or near the building.
If you end up going along with his desires despite your own, don’t feel like this means you missed your opportunity to end things.
Just because you went along with it once doesn’t mean you have to do it again.

