 It often takes a day or two for the eyes to adjust to new glasses. If you can, wait until the weekend to introduce your child to their new glasses. Not only can the child get used to them in a safe, familiar environment, but you can supervise them the entire time to make sure that they are caring for them correctly.
 It is important to teach your child early how to clean their own glasses. You can use prepackaged solution or dish soap to wash their glasses at the sink. You should always wipe glasses with a microfiber cloth; paper towels and tissues can scratch the lenses. Designate a special cloth to be your child’s. Keep this in their bathroom or bedroom. They will always use this special cloth to clean their glasses.You can also buy a box of individually wrapped wipes for glasses. These can be packed into a backpack easily so that your child can wipe their lenses at school.
You may also want to send your child with a dry microfiber cloth with them to school and other activities. Instead of wiping their glasses on their shirt, they can pull this cloth out to wipe away dirt or smudges.
Discourage your child from wiping their lenses on their shirt or clothing. This could scratch the lenses or cause them to become even dirtier., Even if your child must wear glasses all of the time, you should make sure that their case is always with them. Before they leave in the morning, doublecheck that their case is in their backpack. You can either look yourself or ask them, “Do you have your glasses case with you?”

, These straps come in an assortment of bright, funky colors and designs. These are designed to attach to the handles of the glasses, so that the eyeglasses are worn much like goggles. These will keep the glasses firmly secured to your child’s head.You can buy these at your optician's office, at a pharmacy, or at a convenience store.
 Contact your child’s teacher to let them know when your child should be wearing glasses. You should also inform them of any problems you are having convincing your child to wear the glasses. The teacher can make sure your child is actually wearing and taking care of their glasses during school hours, keeping a consistent schedule for your child.Let the teacher know if:


Your child can wear their glasses during recess
If your child needs glasses to take notes or read the board
Your child has a special case to store their glasses in when not wearing
How you’ve trained your child to clean their glasses

