 The easiest way to apply for NCBDE certification is online. You will be redirected to the web page of Psi/Amp, the company the administers the NCBDE certification test. The AADE application is also online.


If you prefer a paper NCBDE application, you can print one out online. The document includes the handbook — a useful document that provides information about the exam — and the application, located at the end of the document.Mail your completed application to AMP, CDE Examination Application, 18000 W. 105th St., Olathe, KS 66061-7543.
If you’re following the Unique Pathway application process for NCBDE certification (i.e, you are applying without work experience but with an advanced medical degree), fill out the application online.
After submitting your NCBDE application, you should get an email notification letting you know that your application was received almost immediately. If submitting the paper application, you should get a written notification that your application was received within four weeks. Call Psi/Amp at (913) 895-4600 if your application has not been acknowledged within four weeks.
 In that case, your supervisor will have to provide written verification that you have, in fact, obtained the necessary experience.


Share your desire to earn NCBDE certification with your supervisor. That way, they will understand if you later ask for written verification of your work experience.
Depending on your particular profession within the medical industry, your supervisor might be the head nurse, a doctor, or another medical professional.
 This fee covers the costs of processing your application and administering your exam. Your fee must be paid when you submit your application.


The fee for the AADE test is much steeper. You’ll need to pay $600 if you’re and AADE member, or $900 if you’re not a member.
An additional fee of $150 will be charged if you are testing for the AADE exam at a site outside the U.S.
 In the case of either exam, if you don’t think you can be available for an in-person test, inquire about getting an online proctored exam. This will allow you to take the test online from another location.

