 Open a new web browser tab or window, and visit the Google Wallet website.;
, Under the Sign In box, type in your Gmail email address and password. This is your one Google ID for all of Google’s services, including Google Wallet. Click the “Sign in” button to proceed.
 Click the link for “Payment methods” from the left panel menu. If you’ve already linked payment methods to Wallet, a list of them will be displayed here.
 You can link up a new credit or debit card here if you haven’t linked any yet or add another credit or debit card to the existing payment methods.
 You will be brought to a credit or debit card enrollment form. Fill up the form with your credit or debit card details, and click the “Save” button below it. Google Wallet is secure, so you shouldn’t worry.


Google Wallet will validate your credit or debit card. It may take a few minutes for this to happen and may involve Google Wallet posting a transaction to your credit or debit card. Once done, it will be added and linked to your Google Wallet account.
 Do what you normally do when you purchase items online. Usually this involves putting things in your online shopping cart and doing a checkout when you’re done. On the Checkout page, you will see a summary of the items you’re buying, and the total amount to be paid.
 When you’re asked for your payment method, select “Google Wallet” or “Checkout.” You will be brought to the Google Wallet Checkout page.
 If you aren’t signed into your Google account yet, type your Gmail email address and password in the field provided on the lower right portion of the page, and click the “Sign in” button to proceed.
 Your shopping cart with the corresponding prices will be displayed. The merchant you’re paying is also indicated in the title or header of the payment summary page. Go over this and make sure everything is good to go.
 If you have multiple payment methods or credit or debit cards linked to your Google Wallet account, there’s a drop-down list before you click “Place order now.” Select your payment method for this purchase from here.
 Once you’ve verified everything, click the “Place order now” button on the bottom of the page. Google Wallet will process your payment using the payment method you’ve selected. You will receive a confirmation message once your payment has been processed.

