 Look at the very bottom of the iPod. There should be a port that you usually use when plugging the device into its charger. The smaller end of your iPod to AV cable should have a component that connects to this port. Plug the cable into the iPod to continue.


The cable you use will usually need to be the Apple Composite AV cable, part number MB129LL. It is compatible with all version of the iPod. On the other hand, the iPod AV cable, part number M9765G, is only compatible with the iPod 5th generation and the iPod Photo.
If you do happen to have an iPod AV cable instead of the composite version, you will need to plug the iPod end of the cable into the headphone jack.;
, Locate the red, white, and yellow composite ports on your television. The other end of your cable should have two audio and one video plug, which are also red, white, and yellow. Plug the color-coded components on this cord into the corresponding color ports of your television set.


If you have a VCR or other device currently occupying the AV composite ports on your television set, you may need to plug this cable into the video-in and audio-in ports on the front of your VCR instead of plugging them directly into the TV.
 The precise method you will need to follow will vary based on your television set. You might need to switch to a certain channel—usually channel 2, 3, or 4—or you might need to press the "Source" or "Input" button on your remote control until you find an input labeled as "Video" or something similar.


For additional guidance, consult your television's instruction manual.



If you are not already on the main menu, get there by pressing the "Home" button, for iPod Touch, or by pressing the center click wheel for a standard iPod until you reach the main menu.
From the main menu, swipe across or scroll down until you see "Video." Tap on the option if you have an iPod Touch, or press the center click wheel if you have a standard iPod.
From the broader "Video" menu, swipe or scroll until you find the "Video Settings" option. Select it with a tap or a center click.
 The "TV Out" option should be located near the top of the "Video Settings" menu. Tap on it if you have an iPod Touch or highlight it and press the center of the click wheel of you have a standard iPod.


The word "On" should appear. If not, there should be another indication that the "TV Out" option has been activated.
Note that you should see the iPod screen mirrored on your TV screen as soon as you complete this step. If it does not work, check your connection on both ends of the cable and verify that your TV set is on the correct source or channel.
 Find the video you want to play by scrolling through your iPod menu as usual. Select it, then watch it play on your TV screen.


Using this method, your video should appear on the TV at a resolution of 480i. This is far from being high definition, but it is almost as good as standard DVD quality.

