 You will be removing the battery from your phone, so you will want to turn it off properly before getting started.


Hold the power button until an options menu pops up list a list of options. Hit “Power off”.
 Take your phone out of its protective case if you are using one, then search the edge for an indentation that allows you to easily remove the back cover. Carefully remove the battery.


For some Android devices, the SIM card might be located at the top or bottom edge. It can usually be identified by a small cutout with a hole for ejecting it.
However, on many Android phones you’ll find the SIM card on top of, below, or under the battery.
 Note the slot and orientation of the card, as you will be installing your new SIM in the same slot and direction.


A lot of phones will require you to push the SIM card further into the slot to trigger a small releasing mechanism that will then allow you to slide your card out.
If you are having trouble removing your SIM card, press down on it with your finger and pull back.
You may have to remove your phone’s battery to free up enough space to remove your card.
 Be sure the new card is activated with your carrier before installing it.


Once again, you may have to enter your password to complete activation once the SIM card is in place and you power your phone back on. Just follow the prompts.
 Consider leaving your protective case off until you are completely done in case you need to access the back of your phone again.
 Your phone should now be connected with your new SIM. Contact your carrier or search online if you require further assistance.


Common search queries for activating your SIM card on Android devices are: “Activate SIM card on “name of Android model” with “name of your carrier”.
 Some Android phones such as the Samsung Galaxy Note, Moto G, and the ASUS ZenFone 2 allow you to have two SIMs in your phone simultaneously so that you can switch between a work number and personal number without having to carry around two phones.Dual-SIM slots will vary from phone to phone, but they are located under the back cover where your phone’s battery is. Some slots are above, to the side, or even under the battery. You will be able to identify both the SIM 1 and SIM 2 slots by markings or an icon with the corresponding number near the slot.
Most Android phones will put your SIM cards in a standby mode so that you can use one primarily, connecting to 4G and data, but still receive calls and texts on both. Note, that the second SIM slot typically only has a 2G data connection.
Vanilla Android software provides you with a SIM Management menu in your settings that allows you to switch between cards. Some phones like the Moto G add features like an automatic SIM selection feature which tracks your usage and will suggest a certain SIM card for specific actions.

