 Roommates usually share the responsibility of bringing the large electronic items you’ll need to feel at home, like a mini refrigerator or television set. Dorm rooms are already small so you don’t want to have duplicate large items. Contact your roommate to decide who’s bring what.If you haven’t met your roommate yet, the university should be able to provide you their contact information.
 It’s not essential that you bring your entire closet with you, but you’ll want to have enough clothing to allow you to dress for any occasion and to go a week or so without having to do laundry. Finding the right balance can be tricky, so consider these tips when deciding what clothing to bring:


Start with about one week’s worth of basic pieces, like pants, tee shirts, and layering pieces. Once you have this packed, fill in your wardrobe with specialty items, like a bathing suit, nice dress, and business suit.
Consider whether or not you’ll be returning home on breaks. If you are able to return home on occasion, you can switch out your wardrobe between seasons. If you aren’t able to go home, however, pack what you’ll need for the entire year and plan on getting some extra storage (like those that fit under your bed) to stow away pieces you don’t need in the current season., We sometimes take for granted the items we use most in a day. Before you head off to college, take some time to track your most essential daily items. To do this, carry a notebook, or make notes in your phone, about what items you use throughout the day. After a week or so, go back through your notes and decide which of your most-used items are essential and which can be left at home.


For example, let’s say you wake up in the morning, have a cup of coffee, and then do some core exercises using a large balance ball. In this case, bringing your coffee maker (although you’ll want to bring a small one and double check they are allowed in your school’s dorm rooms) is essential. However, a large balance ball will be tough to store. Since you’ll likely have access to the school’s gym, leave the ball at home.
 Since you may not have easy access to transportation or a pharmacy within walking distance, bring a small first aid kit so you can take care of any minor medical emergencies that crop up.


Include things like band-aids, hydrogen peroxide, and Neosporin for minor cuts and scrapes.
Also bring cold and flu medicine, pain medicine, cough drops, and vitamin C to treat common colds or sore throats.
In addition, pack Pepto Bismol and Imodium for upset stomachs.#Pack a tool kit. Keeping a few basic tools around can be helpful as well. Although you won’t be allowed to put nail or screw holes in the wall, you may need these for other quick fixes, like a loose screw in your desk chair.
Include a hammer and a few nails in your kit.
Also bring a small screwdriver with several different types of heads.
A pair of pliers could prove useful as well., You may run into wardrobe malfunctions while you’re at school that can’t wait until you go home for break. Bringing a basic sewing kit will help you fix these in a pinch.


Bring a few neutral-colored spools of thread.
Include sewing needles in several different sizes.
In addition, pack a small pair of scissors.
Also throw in a few pins to keep whatever you’re sewing in place.