 If you have a table, dresser, desk, etc. that you don’t want anymore, take it out of your room. Your bedroom should be a place focused on sleeping. Too much extra stuff in it can not only make it more cramped and cluttered but actually, affect how well you sleep.
Removing extra furniture and items will also help you focus on the things you need to clean and organize.;
, You should have three sorting categories: throw away, keep, and donate. Grab your cleaning supplies as well so you have everything nearby.


Depending on how dirty your room is, you may need one to three trash bags.
You should have a duster, vacuum, cleaning wipes or spray and paper towels, and a mop or wet Swifter.
 Listen to your favorite music that you can sing along with.


Listening to your favorite music will help keep you focused and make cleaning and organizing more enjoyable.
 Pick up everything off of your floor that doesn’t belong there. This means anything that isn’t a piece of furniture.


Gather your dirty clothes into your hamper and then before you continue to clean, throw your dirty clothes in the wash. Also, throw your sheets and linens, and your bath towels in the laundry.
If you don’t have a hamper, you can use a trash bag to transport your clothes.
 This will help you focus on the next task of getting rid of junk.


Gathering everything in one spot will give you a clear idea of how much you have and allow you to start getting rid of things you don’t need.
 Make a pile for trash, donating, and stuff that you use or that you want to keep, etc. It’s a good idea to get three bins or bags to sort your items.


Throw all your trash in one bag. You may have to throw things away that aren’t needed but can’t be donated either. Be honest with yourself and think about the last time you used something. If it’s been longer than six months, you don’t need it.
Throw all your charity items in another bag. Make sure whatever you donate is in good condition.
 Aim to only need one bin, tote, or container to keep everything that you want but don’t need out. This will help you stay organized.


Put everything you want to keep (toys, stuffed animals, etc.) in a storage bin and put it in your basement, under your bed, or in a closet.
 Now it’s time to clean your cleared off surfaces. Dust first and wipe off every surface, then sweep, vacuum, and mop.


Dusting with a dust rag or dust wipes will pick up most of the dust from your surfaces but also cause some to flutter down to the floor. Don’t forget your ceiling fan and lamps.
Sweep next to remove any fallen dust and get any dirt off the floor. Make sure to get every corner and under all your furniture, especially your bed.
Once you’ve swept away the cobwebs, vacuum to pick up anything else, and then mop the area to really clean it.
 Go through your closet and dresser and put your clothes into three piles. Replace any items that you leave out.


Sort all your clothes. Do the same that you did with all your other items. Keep some, donate others, and throw away some. Once again, if you haven’t worn it, get rid of it. Having fewer clothes makes it much easier to stay clean and organized.
Replace your items that you like to keep out, and before you put it back, ask yourself why this item is out. What purpose does it serve? If you can easily answer, keep it out. If you can’t get rid of it, or put it out of sight.
Always put dirty clothes in your hamper. When your hamper gets nearly full, it’s laundry time. Don’t let your hamper overflow.
Pair your like clothes together. And when going trough, find what clothes don’t fit your style, are out of date, or worn out. Find clothes that don’t fit your body, or that are similar to something newer you have. These are all things you can get rid of.
Make your bed every day. Making your bed takes less than a minute and can be the final touch that makes your bedroom look amazing. Making your bed also builds good habits and will make you want to keep a clean room.

