 The best way to prevent measles is to get vaccinated against the virus. The measles vaccine is 97% effective at preventing measles and works right away. It is considered very safe for use on children, teenagers, and adults. Speak to your doctor about getting the vaccine if you do not have it already.The vaccine will protect you from contracting measles, even if you are around others who have measles.
Your doctor may recommend the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) combination vaccine to reduce the number of shots you need to get during the appointment. In some cases, the MMR vaccine is given in conjunction with the chickenpox virus, known as the MMR-V vaccine.;
, Most people who get the vaccine do not experience any side effects. If you do experience side effects, they will be mild, usually consisting of a fever or a rash. Serious side effects are rare, but can include a high fever and temporary stiffness and pain in your joints. Your doctor should outline any possible side effects before giving you the vaccine.Infants older than six months can get the measles vaccination safely.
Keep in mind there is no credible proof that there is a link between autism and the measles vaccine. The vaccine is considered very safe and effective. It is not linked to any serious health issues.
 If the child has been exposed to someone with measles, they can get the vaccination as early as six months of age. Otherwise, they should get their first MMR vaccination between 12 and 15 months of age and a second booster at 4 to 6 years of age. If you are an adult, you can get a dose of the vaccine at any age. Your doctor can administer the vaccine in their office. You will feel a slight prick on your arm when you get it but no serious pain.Make sure you get the proper dosage of the vaccine based on your age and whether you have received one dose of the vaccine already. Your doctor should be able to look at your medical records and determine how many doses you need.
 Once you receive the measles vaccine, get a proof of immunity document to show you are immune from the virus. This could be a written document signed by your doctor or blood test results confirming you are immune to the virus. You can then produce the proof of immunity document when needed.Many schools and universities require proof that you have been vaccinated for measles before you can enroll.
If you are uncertain about whether or not you have had your vaccination, you can get a blood test to see if you are immunized. A less expensive option is to get an MMR vaccination. There is no harm in getting the MMR vaccination if you have already had one.