 You may not get to choose the size of the room or the type of furniture, but you can often move things around. Make sure you and the students have space to walk around the room. This is especially important if you have students with behavioral problems. You need to have access to all areas of the room so that you can be close by should a problem arise.


Change the seating in the classroom for different activities. For example, desks should be in rows if you are giving a test because you want to eliminate distractions. For class discussions, however, it is better for students to sit in a circle so that they can easily make eye contact with their peers.
Remember that fifth graders are transitioning into puberty, so students may vary in size. Be mindful of this when you arrange your seating.
 Class rules often vary depending on the community you teach in and your years of experience. Some teachers make rules with their students, while others bring rules to the class. In either case, the rules should be few in number, simple, and make sense to the teacher and students.Some students say that they don’t like rules, but children become uncomfortable when chaos impedes learning. Remember that you are responsible for the safety and learning of all students, regardless of the opinion of some individuals.
Rules should be broad enough to cover many situations and specific enough for you to know when a rule has been broken. A set of class rules might look like:

Raise your hand to speak or leave your seat.
Respect the teacher and classmates.
Participate in class activities.
Keep your hands and body to yourself.
 A class runs smoothly when students know what to expect. As a teacher, you are an important adult in a student’s life. The more consistent you are, the safer they will feel at school. Students should be able to see that if a rule is broken, a consequence is given every single time. If not, students will know that they can get away with certain things, and you run the risk of losing control of the class. Consequences can be established with your administration, fellow teachers, or parents. They may include a call home, an extra homework assignment, a deduction in grades, or community service. Consequences should generally match the severity of the action. Talk to your administrators and learn about your students to see what kinds of consequences will be effective.
 It is important that your students trust and respect you. This happens by getting to know your students as people and establishing a positive academic relationship. Establish rapport with students by learning their names, talking to them about topics they are interested in, and sharing your own stories. Don’t force it. Any connection you make should be genuine.
 Students benefit from knowing that their teacher is in communication with adults at home. A strong link between home and school will help children develop as people and as learners. Call parents when students are having trouble in class. Parents should know what is going on in the classroom. Often parents will support you by helping their child with schoolwork or establishing consequences for poor behavior.
Make positive phone calls too. Children and parents need to feel encouraged, especially if there have been challenges in the past. Students and parents alike will appreciate a positive call home.
 Set behavioral and academic expectations of your students, and consistently reinforce them in the classroom. Although your students are children, expect them to behave appropriately and work hard. Most students will rise to the occasion.


Studies show that we often have low expectations of students with disabilities, students with behavioral problems, low income students, and students of color. Remember to treat your students equally when it comes to what you expect of their behavior and schoolwork.