 Although it’s okay to share your own experiences if you think they will convey empathy or help your friend, you should keep the focus squarely on the friend, not you. So resist the urge to regale them with stories about how you went through something worse.



Don't try to one up them on their problems by throwing in your own problem. Maybe you are being stalked at night by a killer clown wearing sunglasses. But this is the time to be focusing on your friend's problem like their spouse or career or whatever they are going through..
That doesn’t mean you can’t find common ground by reminding them of a personal experience you had that was somewhat similar and that you overcame. But resist the urge to imply you know exactly how they feel because every situation is unique, and keep your own stories to a minimum.
 We’ve all heard such clichés: “I understand how you feel” (even though you really don’t) or “it could be worse” when they feel absolutely awful. Instead of clichés, speak from the heart in a way that is individual to their experience.



Friendship is all about knowing how to use honesty effectively. When a friend is going through a hard time, you have to evaluate the situation and process through your own personal view. Put yourself in your friend’s place, and feel the emotions they are going through.
Say you are sorry for them, and let them express their feelings wholly. Avoid clichéd advice for situations, as they might think you don’t really care and might become sadder. Be realistic. Don’t say “it’s okay” if it’s really not. Instead, offer inspiration.
 Reprimanding friends by saying things like “I told you you should have done this sooner” or “how many times did I tell you that?” is going to make them hurt more. By the time the conversation is over, you would be sorry you said anything.


If a friend is repeating a negative pattern, you can quietly point this out by offering positive suggestions for how they can make a change rather than framing the point in blaming, negative language. Don’t be judgmental. That’s the bottom line. It won’t help, and it’s not the time.
Save the deep talk about how they did x, y, or z wrong for after they are out of the crisis moment. They need to be consoled when things have gone terribly wrong, not be made to feel worse. Do not say mean things to them like “I told you so” or “this is your fault.”
Picture this. You are "Lindsay's" best friend, and her parents are getting a divorce. You should be there to let her sob on your shoulder, spill her problems, or make her happy. But... She might also want some alone time. Make her a little care package, with movies, sweets, and things to make her laugh. Be a good friend, and help her through this hardship as you would want her to do for you

, Provide ways your friend can get through the hardship, as well as emotional encouragement. Help them see the positives that still remain in their life. Remind the friend that they don’t deserve whatever happened to them.


Try to do something, if possible, that would actually change the hardship your friend is facing. If you can’t find anything to do, try putting effort in and do something else helpful for your friend. For example, maybe they’re too distraught to make dinner. Bring them over a plate of food. Offer to babysit their kids – things like that.
Although you should offer constructive solutions, ultimately they need to make their own decisions about what to do. Let them draw their own conclusions and make their own decisions. Showing your genuine support will be the key here. Talk practical, never guide them if you aren't sure. Your overarching goal should be to listen, while occasionally providing constructive and positive solutions, advice or suggestions. You could provide all three if you are a particularly close friend.
 A good friend offers guidance and suggestions, while recognizing that the friend, even though they are close to you, may not be ready to accept your support. Ultimately people need to work through things – bad relationships, financial worry, a death, you name it – on their own time.


Understand and accept that your actions might not yield your expected results always. As a supporter, you should not be disappointed or discouraged by this.
Do help them try to identify the causes of their problems and pinpoint possible remedies for them. Use your experience, instincts, and other peoples’ advice. Say "this is your life and you should do what you decide is best. But don't you think that ____ will lead to ___? Maybe you can ___? It's up to you though" instead of "that's an awful idea, you should ___".

