 Estrogen levels can affect migraines during menopause. Changing the estrogen levels, either increasing or decreasing depending on your individual situation, may help.


For some short-term relief, women can undergo Hormone Replacement Therapy. Raising estrogen levels for a short period of time might help reduce migraines. Talk to your doctor about the benefits and risks of HRT for your migraines.Sometimes, migraines might occur after you begin estrogen therapy. Talk to your doctor if these migraines occur after starting estrogen. You doctor can reduce the dosage, take you off it completely, or change your prescription., One way to treat migraines is to take over-the-counter pain relievers. You can do this without visiting a doctor. Popular options are NSAIDS, like Aleve and Excedrin Migraine.Overuse of these medications, like using them daily, may eventually make your headaches worse.
 These are medications your doctor can prescribe to help migraines. These medications not only help with pain, but also side effects, like nausea and sensitivity.There are medications that treat migraines and prevent them. Talk to your doctor about what treatment may be right for you.


Examples of medications to help migraines include Maxalt, Frova, Axert, Zomig, Relpax, and others. These are Triptans and they are used for abortive therapy. Sometimes they come in an injection form and are injected at the first sign of a migraine. These can be used in conjunction with NSAIDS for systematic relief.
If your migraines are severe, your doctor may also prescribe prophylactic drugs, such as Inderal and Topamax, that you take daily to prevent headaches. However, keep in mind that Topamax can cause some serious side effects, such as vision changes, cognitive changes, or kidney stones.Discuss all of the potential side effects of this drug with your doctor before deciding to try it.
Beta Blockers are also approved for the treatment of migraines and these include metoprolol, propranolol, timolol. It is not recommended to use beta blockers if you are over 60 years old or if you are a smoker.
Other medications that need further research in their effects on migraines include SERMS and GnRH agonists. A few studies have shown a reduction of migraines after treatment with these medications.
Depression may be an issue in menopause as well and treatment with a tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, has been shown to improve symptoms of migraines.Consider asking your doctor about antidepressants if you are also having symptoms of depression.
Other medicines that may be helpful for migraines include botulinum toxin, Butterbur, Coenzyme Q10, feverfew, magnesium, NSAIDS, Riboflavin, and simvastatin plus vitamin D. Discuss all of your options with your doctor to determine what will work best for you.

