 Type http://www.cmcm.com/en-us/clean-master-for-pc/ in your browser's navigation bar and press ↵ Enter to open the page.;
, It will open a page in new tab and then start the download.
 If your browser doesn't ask you to choose the download location, check the 'Downloads' folder to find the installer.
 Open the installer file to complete the installation procedure.
 After the installation procedure is completed, an icon is created on the desktop for quick access. Select the icon to open the application.
 The scanning process may take up to 15 minutes to complete. During this time, the app searches for:


'Video and audio junk: The app scans the media buffers to save space. It check all your media applications like iTunes, VLC, QuickTime, Windows MediaPlayer, etc.

Web cache: As you surf across the webpages, some HTML webpages and images are stored in your PC to reduce the bandwidth usage but this occupies a significant amount of the PC storage.Software junk: The softwares form some files during their processes and they are of no use after the task is completed. Cleaning such files is safe and won't cause any software malfunction.

System cache: System caches are the files created by your PC which speeds up the procedures which occur on daily basis knowingly or unknowingly. Keep these files if you wish to keep the processing speed like before.Social software's junk: Social networking applications or websites such as Twitter and Line create some junk files while they are running. It is safe to delete them and junk files don't include your shared photos, text messages, etc.

Registry junk: Outdated registries can be removed to improve the overall performance of your PC.
 After the scanning procedure is completed, the application lists out the files which can deleted without causing any harm to your PC. Check that the application doesn't mention any files you need.
 If you find any files which you want to keep, select the file and choose 'Ignore' to save it from being cleaned up.
 Once you have thoroughly checked the scan summary, select 'Clean now' to clean all the junk and lighten up your PC.