 Countries like Saudi Arabia and Yemen are still very culture bound in terms of religion, faith and God consciousness. It is quite a normal occurrence to see people praying on the road, in front of shops or any other place suitable, during the respective prayer times.;
, In Saudi Arabia, all or most females are covered in headgear. They are only seen by their husbands and other close male family members. Speaking to an unknown female in cover is taboo. Men should take heed of this. This may save you from being arrested and spending the night in jail. However, in all other Arab countries, this is not the case.
 This will help you a great deal when trying to get around. Learn from the locals. This can be a lot of fun when pronunciations are all wrong and you have to be corrected.
 A Middle Easterners greeting is warm and casual coupled with kisses and hugging. Do not misunderstand this gesture. It is quite normal to see males walking and holding hands. It is something you will learn to get used to.
 Being in their midst, is considered rude and improper. This will also save you from any misunderstandings that are likely to occur.
 This will help you overcome loneliness and also breaks the language barrier. Social support systems are essential when working in a foreign country.
 Shopping can be an ideal way to spend your time without getting into unnecessary trouble.
 It is not uncommon for a foreigner to be stopped by authorities or officials who perform random checks.
 Emphasis is placed more on relationships and maintaining strong social ties, rather than being on time, chasing time and following strict protocols. It is common to have a cup of coffee or even chat for hours before commencing with daily activities.
 These people are learning from you as much as you are learning from them.
 This will help to stay in touch with family and friends back home. Also a good way to keep yourself occupied.
 Check with authorities about places you can or cannot visit. Some places may a require a visiting permit and this will save you time, money and unnecessary frustrations.
 Carry an umbrella or wear a cap to protect yourself from the harmful heat of the Middle Eastern sun. Try doing errands at night or in the evenings when temperatures are cooler.

