 Many people have asthma symptoms that arise in response to cold air. Airways respond to temperature and can contract in response to cold air. Note any asthma symptoms in response to cold air in your diary., If your asthma gets worse in response to pollen, mold, pets, cockroaches, or dust, record the experience in your journal. Identifying patterns of response can help you manage your asthma. You might be able to minimize your exposure to certain airborne substances if you are able to identify what they are., Record any asthma symptoms that arise in response to indoor pollution such as cigarette smoke or outdoor pollution such as exhaust from cars.If you visit a new city and your asthma gets worse, see if it is related to the pollution levels in the city.
If your asthma gets worse after going to a party where people where smoking, record the event in your diary. You might want to avoid exposure to smoke in the future.
 You should observe the impact of any new or old medications on your asthma. Some people experience aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, and beta blockers as triggers., You should observe the relationship between your exercise routine and asthma. Although exercise is encouraged for people with asthma, you might experience some forms of exercise as a trigger for your asthma. Take note of any symptoms that emerge in response to certain forms of exercise such as running in cold environments or swimming in cold water., A range of foods can trigger asthma so you will need to identify your own personal triggers. Some of the foods that are commonly experienced as asthma triggers include shrimp, processed potatoes, beer and wine. Take note of any asthma symptoms that arise after the consumption of these or other food items., Medical conditions such as the common cold and gastroesophageal reflux disease can sometimes trigger asthma symptoms. You should observe whether your asthma symptoms arise in response to other medical conditions., You should also record any patterns or connections between your stress levels and emotional life and asthma symptoms. Stress can impact asthma so if you are experiencing a lot of work or relationship related stress, record this in your diary.