 If your sibling is going through a difficult time, such as a break up, the loss of a friend, or the loss of their job, stay in touch with them on a regular basis. Call them or text them daily with a friendly, “How are you?” or “How’s it going?” Send them funny videos or images to cheer them up, especially if you know they are not feeling great.Staying in contact with your sibling will let them know that you care about them and that you are there for them. Even a quick message once a day can make them feel supported and less alone.;
, To be there for your sibling, set up weekly plans where you get together face to face and catch up. Try to schedule regular weekly lunches or dinners with your sibling and commit to them. Having quality one on one time with your sibling can make your bond stronger and make them feel you are supporting them.


You may have your sibling over for dinner at your home or switch between their home and your home. You can also suggest meeting for lunch at a place you both like so the environment feels comforting.
 If your sibling appears overwhelmed due to stress or anxiety, give them a helping hand. Help them do chores they do not have the time or energy to do. Offer to help them complete tasks and commitments so they have time for themselves to relax and unwind.


For example, if your sibling is not able to prepare their own meals due to an illness, bring them take out or prepare home cooked meals for them.
 If your sibling is struggling with their mental and physical health, you may suggest that they speak to a counselor or a therapist. Part of supporting your sibling is being honest with them and letting them know you are worried or concerned about them. They may need help beyond what you can provide as a sibling and a professional therapist or counselor may be the right answer.You may contact a mental health clinic nearby to see if there is a counselor your sibling could speak to. If your sibling lives on campus or goes to school, you can suggest that they speak to a school counselor.

