 Once you are informed about the major issues and platforms of each of the parties, it is a good idea to be ready to tell your parents about the basics of your views -- and that you have decided to support the Republican Party. Be peaceful and calmly let them understand that you agree with many of the Republican's views. For example, explain to your parents why you align with certain Republican platform "planks". You can provide them with several concrete examples to help them better understand your position.Do not try to convince or convert them. It is okay that you don’t share the same political views as your parents, even if it is uncomfortable and awkward.
 Instead, speak in a respectful manner. Do not judge or argue with your parents because they hold different views than your own. This will only lead to unnecessary arguments, divisions, and polarization.


Approach any political discussion with a friendly and affectionate attitude. Say, "Okay." when one disagrees, "I think, I see what you mean. Yeah... we can agree to disagree as friends on some issues."

Avoid oppositional or insulting words. You will not want to say "You're crazy/stupid/foolish/speaking nonsense", or use profanity or loud talk. Anger, silent treatment, avoiding each other and being spiteful will get you nowhere.
 Once you have revealed to your parents why you support the Republicans, it is equally important that you respectfully listen to your parents when they explain why they support the democrats. In order to be able to accept the fact that you may have opposing views from your parents, you need to allow them to express their perspectives, and you might understand how they came to those views (but not necessarily). You will likely realize, over time, that their perspective is personal, as it is grounded in their own experiences and outlook on the world. Peaceful, effective communication, on any issue, requires respectful listening skills. You will be better equipped to maintain your own political views if you have a reasonably accurate understanding of why your views differ from your parents'., Even though you do not support the same political concepts as your parents, you may be able to find issues that you can agree on. Many people hold conservative views on some issues, moderate ones on others, and liberal views on another area. For example, you may agree or disagree with your parents about abortion or pro-life issues, but find that you agree with them when it comes to same-sex or traditional marriage issues. By primarily accentuating the common political beliefs you can help bridge or avoid widening the gap between you and your parents. This will make it easier for you to maintain your Republican views., If your parents are upset because you do not share their opinions and political views, then you can calmly explain to them that it is your right to freely choose which candidates and issues to support.


Tell them you will always respect their views, and that they should respect your views as well. It is important that your parents understand that you have developed your own opinions based on your life experiences and they should respect your rights.
You may find that your parents will respect the fact that you are independent, strong-willed, and think for yourself, rather than letting other people manipulate your views and opinions.