 Some studies have shown mindful meditation is effective in combatting depression, and is particularly effective in preventing relapse for those who have experienced episodes of major depression.To practice mindfulness meditation, you'll first need to sit upright on a chair or on the floor.


Choose a room without distractions. It might be best to choose a particular corner of the room. Do not face anything stimulating, like a television set or window. Try to face a blank wall if possible.Sit in a manner that feels comfortable. You want to be able to focus on your breath and self rather than feelings of physical discomfort. You can sit on the floor, a cushion, or a chair with a straight back. Make sure you choose a chair that does not wiggle around. Try to sit up straight when you're meditating in order to make breathing easier.Place your hands on your thighs, facing downward. Keep your eyes somewhat opened, with your gaze focusing on the wall or floor. Make sure your hips are higher than your knees.;
, Once you're seated, spend a few moments taking in the present moment. Be aware of your posture, your body, and your environment. Your mind will probably wander at some point. When this happens, gently bring your thoughts back to your body and your surroundings., After spending a few moments focusing on the present, turn your attention to your breath. Breathing is a natural, rhythmic process. Pay attention to how air comes in and out of your lungs.


Channel all your attention on your breath. There is no need to manipulate your breath or breathe in a particular way. Just pay attention to its natural rhythm.Keep your attention on your body and environment in addition to your breathing. Try to spend a few minutes breathing and focusing on the present. Once again, if your mind wanders, try to bring things back to the present.Try practicing diaphragm breathing either sitting up or lying down. If you plan to sit up, make sure you sit up straight so you can breathe more easily. Place one hand on your chest and another on your lower stomach. Breathe in such a way that the hand on your stomach rises while the one on your chest remains still. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Repeat for as many breaths as it takes for you to begin to feel calmed and emotionally slowed down., After a few minutes of breathing, allow your mind to wander. Do not judge or analyze your thoughts. Just let them come in and out naturally.


Thoughts will begin to arise if you meditate long enough. They might be memories, worries, concerns, or snippets from TV shows. Try not to control your thoughts. Just let them come and go on their own.Avoid judging your thoughts or trying to work through or analyze anything. Simply let the thoughts occur. It can be helpful to name your thoughts in your head as they come. Think something like, "Here is a memory from childhood," or, "Here is some worry about my job.", Strive to meditate a bit each day. Studies show two-and-a-half hours of mindfulness meditation improves symptoms of depression in some patients.Try to work meditation into your regular schedule. For example, plan to meditate after brushing your teeth each night before bed. This way, it'll become routine.

