 Trouble sucking is one of the common symptoms of PWS in newborns and infants. To help with this, you can buy special nipples or feeding tubes to use with your baby to help them until they are able to suck properly. This ensures your baby gets the amount of nutrition needed to properly grow and not starve.You should be able to find the nipples at a pharmacy or medical supply store. Ask your doctor the best place in your area to buy them.
If your child needs a feeding tube, these may need to be used with medical supervision. One type of tube is inserted through the nose, and the other is surgically placed in the stomach.
 Because your child has trouble feeding, they may not be getting the calories needed to grow and thrive. Because of this, you may need to alter the food you are giving them. Talk to your doctor about any dietary changes you may need to make for your baby.You may need to give your baby a higher calorie formula to make sure they are getting the daily calories needed to function. If you are breastfeeding, you may need to add formula to the breast milk to up the calorie content.
You may need to manually squeeze formula into your baby’s mouth to ensure they are getting it.
 Since children with PWS have hormonal imbalances that cause them to overeat and obsess about food, you should carefully manage your child’s food intake. Children with PWS are not able to manage their food on their own. They have a tendency to hoard food if not watched closely.You should carefully portion out your child’s food for each meal and snack. Children do not need as much food as adults. This means a child’s portion size will be smaller than an adult’s. Don’t feed your child the same size portion you are feeding yourself.
Talk to your doctor or a nutritionist about the proper calorie and portion guidelines for children with PWS. There are also books you can buy to help you learn how to feed your child properly.
 Giving your child a routine when it comes to eating can help establish stability with their eating habits. It may also help teach appropriate eating habits. Make a schedule in which your child eats every two or three hours. Snacks should be scheduled just like meals. Refrain from giving food between scheduled meal times, because that can lead to unhealthy habits, reinforce negative behavior (like that tantrums will lead to food), and give the child too many calories.Eat when your child eats. Try not to eat when your child cannot eat. Consuming food in front of your child that they cannot have may cause a tantrum because they want the food, too.
Tell relatives, friends, and other people not to give food to your child outside of their schedule. Explain that the child may throw tantrums, lie, or try anything to get food, but they have to be on a strict schedule. Tell well-meaning relatives that “a little bit won’t hurt” doesn’t apply to your child. There is no grey area where their diet is concerned.
 Children with PWS cannot feed themselves. They often overeat, steal food, obsess about food, and lie about food. This means an adult in the family should always be in charge of the child’s food. Teach your child from the beginning that they do not get food for themselves, but that an adult will always give them food.Place all food and snacks onto the plate before giving them to your child. Don’t have them a box of crackers or leave serving bowls on the dinner table. This can trigger overeating, food hoarding, or a tantrum if they child wants the food they see but cannot have.
When you go to events, like birthday parties or family get togethers, decide if your child is able to have a small treat without triggering unhealthy food behavior or behavior problems. If this will cause a negative response, consider bringing approved treats from home.
 Healthy eating is important for all members of a family, but a child with PWS needs to eat healthy foods and stay away from calorie-heavy, unhealthy foods. PWS causes slower metabolic function, which means the child has trouble burning calories. Most people with PWS only need between 1,000 to 1,200 calories even as adults.When children with PWS eat empty, unhealthy calories, they don’t burn them, which means it turns to unhealthy fat.Make healthy meals for your family, full of low-fat meats, complex carbohydrates, healthy fats, and fresh fruits and vegetables. Limit the amount of fast food, prepackaged snacks, and junk food your child eats.
If your child wants to eat a lot, give them healthy, low-calorie foods. For example, each day they can have up to eight servings of vegetables, three servings of complex carbohydrates, four servings of fruit, two servings of low-fat dairy products, and one or two servings of meat., Children with PWS often engage in troublesome behaviors where food it concerned. They may steal food, hoard food, or lie about their eating habits. Because they are obsessed with food and often overeat, you should lock all the food away. Place locks on the refrigerator and cabinets, or place all food in locked pantries or cabinets children cannot reach.Since PWS often leads to food-seeking behavior, placing food on high shelves or out of reach may not be enough to stop the behavior.
 Because of the slow metabolic function of the body when someone has PWS, physical activity is important. PWS makes it difficult to burn unused calories, so children should be raised with the habit of getting physical activity and exercising.Children with PWS may not be able to do the same amount or type of physical activity as other children because of reduced energy levels. Have them be active throughout the day in small increments, such as five to fifteen minutes, so they don’t get tired or frustrated.
Individual activities are generally better than team sports. Try walking, swimming, bike riding, gym exercising, or other things they can do by themselves.This helps to reduce the risk of obesity as the child ages, and sets up healthy habits for the future.
 Learning how to manage everything associated with your child's condition may take a toll on you. You may benefit from finding a support group. Support groups can help you come up with diet and food choices, give suggestions for behavioral techniques, and share stories, difficulties, and successes.You can find online support at Prader-Willi California Foundation. You can search online for PWS support groups in your area.

