 There are tons of games available on the iPad, more than you'll ever be able to sort through on your own. One of the best ways to find out about new games and hidden gems is to visit a few different iPad game review websites. Some popular resources include:


SlideToPlay - slidetoplay.com

TouchArcade - toucharcade.com

PocketGamer - pocketgamer.co.uk

Reddit's iOS Games subreddit - reddit.com/r/iosgames
;
, Beyond review sites, there are tons of "Top #" lists for iPad games. Simply search for "best iPad games 2015" in your favorite search engine and check out some of the results.
 When you launch the App Store on your iPad, you'll be greeted with a bunch of different featured apps and charts. You can use these to find some of the most popular recent releases as well as best-selling classics.
 Lots of games on the iPad are free, but they still have to make money somehow. The most common way games make money is by including In-App Purchases. These can add additional features to your game or simply allow you to keep playing. It's very important to pay attention to what can be purchased, especially if you are downloading a game for your child.


Oftentimes if a game costs money upfront, there won't be anything additional to purchase in the game, but this isn't always the case.
 Each game's information page has a "Reviews" tab where you can read impressions from other users. These can be very helpful in determining if the game runs well on your iPad, as well as any other issues players may be having.
 In order to download anything from the App Store, even free games, you'll need an Apple ID. Click here for instructions on creating an Apple ID, or click here for details on creating an Apple ID if you don't have a credit card.
 Tapping on a game in the App Store will open a new page with detailed information about the game.
 If the game costs money, you'll need to purchase it before you can download it. If you have a credit card associated with your Apple ID, you can purchase anything on the store and your card will be charged immediately.


If you have redeemed a gift card, the total will be subtracted from your gift card balance first.
 This will associate it with your Apple ID, and acts like purchasing it.
 This button appears after your purchase the game or tap "Get". The game will begin downloading to your iPad. You can monitor the progress of the download by watching the circle fill up.
 Once the game has finished downloading and installing, you can start it by tapping the icon that appears on your Home screen. If you have a lot of apps installed, it may appear on another Home screen.
 The Apple Game Center allows you to find other people to play with, compete in challenges, and keep track of your turns in turn-based games. The Game Center comes preinstalled on all iOS devices.


If you can't find the Game Center, swipe down on your screen to open the Spotlight Search, and then type "game center".
 When you launch Game Center for the first time, you'll be prompted to sign in with your Apple ID.
 This is the name that will appear in leaderboards and will be displayed to your Game Center friends.
 You can link your iCloud Contacts and Facebook accounts to add friends, and you can also add people you play against when playing games. Your friends will appear in the Friends tab, and challenges will appear in the Challenges tab once you have some friends that play the same games as you.