 Make a “wish list” of what you would do differently if a genie magically gave you the power to change anything. Then pretend to be that better person until the new you comes naturally.If you feel like you're too shy sometimes, go out of your way to be more outgoing in social situations – even if it is uncomfortable.
If you feel like you're unreliable at times, and let people down, make it a priority never to make promises you aren't completely positive you'll be able to keep. Then follow through on any plans you make with your friends, every single time.
 It's a cliché for a reason: it's important to be yourself. Don't try to become what you think your friend wants you to be. Pretending to be something you’re not can become exhausting, and your run the risk of your friends never truly knowing who you are. Besides, your friends like you because you are you – if you were any different, they wouldn't be your friends in the first place., When you make a mistake, own it. And if your friend teases you a little, don't take it personally. Accept that everyone does something embarrassing now and then, and just try to laugh it off. You don’t want your friend to feel like he or she is walking on eggshells around you because he or she is constantly trying not to hurt your feelings by accident., If your friend is sharing something important with you, don't try to lighten the mood by making jokes. If your friends are trying to relax and have a good time, save any heavy or overly-personal conversations for another time. If you are constantly changing the dynamic of the group, then they may feel that you don't really understand them., Don't brag about your accomplishments. If a friend is telling you about something he or she has done that he or she is proud of, don't try to “one-up” your friend. For example, if a friend tells a funny story, don't try to top it with a better one.
 If you always pay for everything, you might need to say something, but the last thing you want to do is act like you think your friend owes you something.Don't keep track of who paid for lunch last time, or who drove last weekend, or who has been chipping in more for gas money.
Don't keep track of how often you contact your friend versus how often your friend contacts you. Making a big deal about this may make your friend want to avoid you completely.
If it seems like you are constantly inviting your friend to things, and he or she is not inviting you to as many things – don't worry about it. As long as you are seeing each other, it doesn't matter who issued the invitation.
 Always follow through on plans you make, unless you have a serious emergency. If you need to break plans every rare once in a while, be honest with your friend and tell them why. But don't make a habit of this, or they will eventually stop inviting you to things altogether.