 One side will be the outside of your purse, and one side will make the lining. To make a more realistic-looking purse, choose paper that is patterned on one side and solid-colored on the other.

For the neatest cut, cut a paper trimmer or paper cutter. If you don't have one, use a metal ruler and craft knife.
For the rest of this tutorial, the double-sided scrapbook paper will be referred to as "DSP.";
, You will end up with one 4½ by 12-inch (11.43 by 30.48 centimeters) strip of paper, and one 4½ by 7-inch (11.43 by 17.78 centimeters) strip of paper., Lay down a strip of double-sided tape along one of the narrow edges of your first piece of DSP. Peel off the backing, then press the narrow edge of the other piece of DSP on top.

Do not overlap the two pieces by more than ½-inch (1.27 centimeters), or the body of your purse won't be long enough to wrap around the bottom of your purse.
Set the taped DSP aside when you are done.
 Cut two ¾ by 11-inch (1.91 by 27.94 centimeters) strips of paper first. Then, cut two more ¾ and 8½-inch (1.91 by 21.59 centimeters) strips.Choose a color that contrasts with your DSP, but that also goes well with it. Neutral colors, such as black or white, are great options.
 Be careful not to overlap the ends by too much, or your border won't be long enough to wrap around the top of your purse; ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) will be plenty. Repeat with the remaining two pieces. When you are done, you will end up with two, very long strips of paper.

Set the border pieces aside when you are done. You will be attaching them to the body of the bag towards the end.
 Use the same color as you did for the border pieces in the previous part.You will be folding this into a box shape to make the bottom of your purse., Score a vertical line, going from top to bottom, 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) away from the left side edge. Repeat this for the right side. Score a horizontal line, going from side to side, 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) away from the top edge. Repeat this for the bottom edge.

For the neatest scores, use a scoring board. If you don't have one, lightly draw the lines using a pencil and ruler first, then fold along those lines a few times to make a crease.
When you are done, you will have a large rectangle in the center, and four skinny rectangles at each edge. You will also have four squares, one in each corner.
 Orient the rectangle horizontally first, with the long edge facing you. Then, using the vertical scores as guides, cut a 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) long slit into each corner, right along the score line. These slits will make little flaps so that you can tape the bottom of your bag together., Fold both side edges down towards the center, and run a bone folder along the creases. Repeat for the top and bottom edges., Place a few strips of double-sided tape to the back of each flap. Then, press each flap against the inside walls of the box. You will end up with something that looks like a how-box lid.

Set the bottom of the purse aside when you are done.
 For a fancier touch, you can crop or round the corners, but not by much. Use the same color as you did for the border pieces., You'll be using these un-scored ends to attach the handles to the bag.It will also mimic the look of a real bag., Draw a line of glue to one side of the score, then fold the handle in half. Leave the 1½-inch (3.81 centimeters) bit at each end un-folded and un-glued. The handles will be flat and skinny along the middle, with curved "cups" at each end.

The smooth part of the cups will be on the front/outside of the handles.
The curved, "V" part of the cups will be on the back/inside of the handles.
 Place the flat, folded part of the handle on the edge of a bone folder. Place your thumb on top of the paper. Use your free hand to pull the paper downward, between your thumb and the bone folder. Repeat this step for the other handle.

This is the same technique used for curling ribbon.
Set the handles aside when you are done.
 Take the DSP strip you made at the beginning, and flip it over so that the side you want to be on the inside of your purse is facing you. Place a long strip of double-sided tape along the bottom edge. Place another strip along one of the short, side edges., Start from the short edge that does not have any tape on it. Carefully wrap the body of the bag around the bottom of your purse, pinching the corners as you go. Finish off by pressing the taped side edge down. Run your finger along the seam to seal it.Make sure that the bottom of the DSP strip aligns neatly with the bottom of your purse.
 Run a strip of double-sided tape along one of the border strips first, then wrap the strip around the top, inside edge of your purse. Repeat this step with the other strip, but this time on the outside of your purse.This gives your purse some design as well as strength.

Make sure that the top edges align neatly.
Don't align the seams on the border pieces with the seams on the body of your purse. You will create less bulk this way.
 Take your first handle, and turn it so that the back is facing you. You should see a "V" at each end of the handle. Place a strip of double-sided tape onto the bottom edge of each end. Repeat this step for the other handle., Take the first handle, and position it on the front of your purse. Make sure that the bottom edges of the handle align with the bottom edge of the border. Press the taped ends to the front of your bag. Flip the bag over, and repeat for the other side., Place a drop of glue onto the bottom corners of your front handle. Next, press a small, flat-backed gem, pearl, or metal stud onto the glue.Repeat this step for the back handle.

You can also use glue dots instead of glue.
 Because this bag is made out of paper and tape, it is very fragile. It is meant mostly for decorative purposes, although you can use it to store paper cards and other supplies on your desk. You can also use it as a fancy gift bag.