 Music is a great motivator when working out. If you are finishing that race and think you may not be able to complete that last mile, put on some energizing music. Pick things with a quick beat, or a song that makes you feel invincible.Two to three motivating songs can get you through your last mile.
Design your playlist where your most invigorating songs are placed at the end of the running playlist.
 If you can’t quite get through that last mile alone, try finding a running buddy. Working out with another person can help motivate you and keep you moving when you think you can’t move anymore. Being with another person can give you someone to hold you accountable for your runs, helping you push through that last mile.Ask your partner, best friend, kids, parents, or co-worker to run with you.
 Ask yourself why you are running. Are you training for a race? Trying to improve your health? Attempting to lose a few pounds? Come up with a concrete purpose for running. Keeping this purpose in mind can help you push yourself through difficult times and reach your goal of that last mile.For example, you might tell yourself, “Getting through this last mile is one step closer to fitting into my clothes” or “This last mile is helping me lower my cholesterol and high blood pressure.”

, If you are struggling with that last mile, consider changing your route. If you are running the same course and never getting through the final mile, you may need to change it up. Perhaps the course has too many hills, or there are hills at the end keeping your from finishing. Try a different course, or run the course the opposite way, to see if you can make it through that last mile.Adjusting your route may make it easier or less intense so you can push through that last mile. Once you have successfully conquered the mile, you can go back to the original course and push through that last mile on the course you had trouble with.
 Making sure your form is good and that your body is moving in the best way can help you make it through that last mile. Poor form may exhaust your muscles or drain unnecessary energy. Do a check on your form throughout the entire workout to keep yourself moving efficiently and not wasting energy.You should be running with short and quick strides. This is especially important at the end of the workout, when you may start to get sloppy because you are tired. You may start elongating your running gait, which can cause fatigue and injury.

