 Burmese cats have golden eyes. They are set far apart and should be in line with the base of the cat’s ears. Their rounded shape gives them a large appearance. The brow above the eyes is also rounded, tapering back toward the ears., Burmese cats vary in the type of legs they have. Some have four short legs that are proportional to the rest of the body.Other Burmese cats have long legs, with their two front legs slightly longer than the two rear legs. Burmese paws are ovular in shape., Despite their trim build, Burmese are quite muscular, and can therefore weigh a good deal.Males usually weigh about eight to 12 pounds (3.6 to 5.4 kg). Females usually weigh six to 10 pounds (2.7 to 4.5 kg)., Burmese cats have a wedge-shaped head, with a wide skull tapering toward a narrower snout.Seen from the side, you’ll notice the end stopping at a blunt point, rather than tapering down in a rounded way. The end of the nose will be parallel with the chin. Their heads are proportional to the size of their bodies and sit atop a well-developed medium neck., Burmese cats have two medium-sized ears. They are set apart but not flaring out. Viewed from the side, you should be able to identify a slight forward tilt to the ears., Burmese cats are muscular and solidly built. They are a medium-sized cat, larger than their Siamese ancestors but smaller than the British Shorthair.They have rounded chests, and their backs should be level and end in a medium-length tail with a rounded tip., Burmese cats typically have dark brown sepia (sable) fur. But you might also find a Burmese with champagne, beige, light brown or tan, medium-blue, gray, silver, lilac, tabby (multicolored), tangerine, or light golden fur.Burmese cats’ coats will darken as they mature. If your cat’s coat is getting darker as it ages, it might be a Burmese.
 Burmese cats have short coats. The short length means they are easy to groom and do not shed much.The coats feel silky or satin-like to the touch, and you might find it pleasurable to pet the cat.