 Are you a longtime admirer of Patti Smith’s punky, androgynous lookor are you more into Courtney Love’s grungy but glamorous style?Spend some time thinking about who your fashion icons are and think about what kinds of clothes you could use in your wardrobe to imitate them.;
, An upside to rock-inspired fashion is that much of it is about DIY (do it yourself) culture and old, ripped pieces of clothing can even be preferable to new pieces.


Keep your basics, such as tank tops, dark colored clothing, and jeans. You can always use these to layer edgier items on top.
 With some easy alterations, you can transform many old articles of clothing into a new gem of rock chick style.


If you have any old formal dresses, cutting off the bottom to thigh-level or so is a great, easy method for incorporating them into your new look. Just take a pair of scissors and cut off the bottom in more or less a straight line (some ragged edges or asymmetry may even contribute to your look though, so don’t worry about being too careful).
 Distressed denim a great addition to any rock chick’s closet and is another DIY method you can easily use on jeans you already own. Take a shaving razor and shave over the edges of the jeans, making little cuts that will eventually fray and give your jeans the worn, vintage look you want.


For a more dramatic look, you can even make small cuts in the actual fabric of the jeans with a pair of scissors (try to keep them centered and on the thigh/knee area for the most flattering look). Then, using your fingers, slowly pry the cuts open until they begin to rip, but be sure to keep the rip at about 1–2 inches (3–5 cm), as the holes will get bigger naturally over time., There are plenty of rock chick staples, such as leather jackets, studded belts, and black boots.Obtaining even just a few of these staples can be surprisingly cheap and complete your look.


Some clothing stores, such as Hot Topic and Torrid, specially cater to “alternative” fashionistas and can be a good place to start for a few key outfits, such as black leggings or studded collars and belts.
Thrift stores are always a great option. Not only are they generally cheaper than other clothing stores, but you are more likely to find clothing items that are older and more unique.
Don’t forget about the men’s section! For example, if you’re looking for an oversize leather or bomber jacket, it may be waiting for you there.
 Miniskirts and short dresses are a key part of any rock chick’s wardrobe. They are also a pretty common clothing item so if you don’t already own any and can’t alter any of your dresses, you can buy them at most clothing stores.


Try layering your skirt or dress with funky tights or long socks.
 Every rock chick has a favorite jacket to throw over and complete their outfit. Some classic types are bomber jackets and black leather jackets (with studs and chains are a plus!). Again, it may be better to buy this article secondhand as it should look old and worn rather than brand new.
 Flannel shirts in any color are a must-have in any rock chick’s closet and can be worn with just about anything. On casual days, simply pair them with your distressed jeans or layer them over dresses for a night out.
 Shoes can make or break a look. Black or dark brown ankle boots are great, but you can also go for skate shoes, canvas sneakers, ballerina flats...you have a lot of options for shoes and if you’re feeling stumped, you can always search for full length photos of some of your style inspirations to see what shoes they’ve completed their outfits with.
 Dainty necklaces and heirloom jewels are probably not the best options here.Instead, you want original and attention-grabbing pieces. Don’t be afraid to wear jewelry that stands out!

, Statement pieces are items that tie together an outfit. They are usually eye-catching either in size or design. Think of chunky chain necklaces, large pendants, or stacking lots of bracelets on top of each other.


Again, vintage stores can be a great source of edgy but cheap costume jewelry.
 Sunglasses are a must in any rocker’s closet. Find some oversized wayfarer or aviator sunglasses and don them like the rockstar you are when you go outside.
 The rock chick look is not about keeping everything clean and completely coordinated. Experiment with intentionally grungy or rough pieces and combinations to fully embody the rock chick aesthetic.


For example, intentionally wearing tangled long necklaces paired with ripped jeans and a slouchy black shirt can be a great look.
 If you have any piercings or tattoos, they can be a great complement to your look. However, don’t permanently alter your body with these unless you know you’ll want the alterations for the rest of your life.


Hoops and gauges are popular options for many rockers.
If you have any tattoos, choose clothing that shows them off, such as off the shoulder sweaters for upper arm tattoos or crop tops if you have any tattoos on your stomach or back.
 Of course, you are not required to wear makeup for this look, but if you choose to, try these specific tips to really make your look pop.


Dramatic makeup can be lots of fun and you don’t need many materials for this look. Consider which facial features you want to show off and choose makeup that draws attention to that part of your face. For example, try applying thick black eyeliner and mascara to emphasize your eyes or red lipstick for your lips.
There are rock-inspired makeup brands, such as Kat von D, Urban Decay, and Obsessive Compulsive Cosmetics that specialize in the dramatic colors and often come with mini-tutorials to help you achieve the look you want. However, brand names are in no way required for this look and you can just as easily use cheaper alternatives.
A classic rock makeup style is the smokey eye and it’s relatively easy to do. Simply dust your eyelids with charcoal or grey eyeshadow then line your eyes with black eyeliner.Try to keep the eyeliner thin from the inner corner of your eyes and then thicken the lines as you move to the outer corners. Then, take a Q-tip or your finger (using a light touch!) and blend the eyeshadow and eyeliner at the outer corners.
 There are no hard rules about what kind of hair you have, just make sure that it’s not too neatly arranged.


If you’ve always wanted to try an edgy hairstyle, such as shaving one side or dying it a funky color, now is the time to do it! Just make sure that having an alternative hairstyle won’t get you in trouble at work or school.
 Now that you’ve got the fashion down pat, remember to project self-confidence as that is the key to pulling off any look.


Be mindful of your body language as that is one of the most important nonverbal cues people pick up on. Stand tall, draw your shoulders back, and look people in the eye to immediately communicate confidence.
 This step isn’t necessary if you are only dressing for the fashion, but for those who want to signal they care about rock music and culture, figuring out who your favorite bands are is a must.


Start with some classics such as The Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin, Joan Jett, Blondie, and David Bowie and go from there.
An added benefit of listening to rock music is that, once you’ve figured out which bands you enjoy listening to, you can also buy their t-shirts and add them to your wardrobe.
 The true spirit of rock is all about authenticity, that is, staying true to oneself rather than conforming.Therefore, even as you keep styling and fashion tips in mind, you should only incorporate the ones you really like.

