 Learn about the styles of their homes., Start by leveling the land.
 First dig a hole a depth of 20 centimeters this is the depth of the refined wooden planks. Then lay out an outline of a rectangle with your refined wooden planks that is 5 meters (length) by 10 meters (width) in the hole you made. The outline should be hollow and the planks should be the same depth as the hole you dug. Now set the planks upright and nail the corners. Fill the area inside the hollow rectangle with stones and cement. Let the cement set; it will take 28 days for the cement to cure.
 Lay down the planks horizontally to the rectangular foundation. The length of the boards will be the length of the floor which is 5 meters long. One by one, nail the planks into the outside perimeter of the foundation. For added floor strength, fasten the boards to the concrete. You can do this by nailing the boards in, or use a glue that bonds to wood and concrete.
 Four walls in total will be needed to create this home. One wall you will need to leave space for a door. The doors dimensions will be 2 meters by 1 meter. So this dimension has to be left empty on one wall. You can first outline a door cut in your frame.


First build a frame for the wall with the height being 5 meters and the length will be 10 meters. Add wall studs every 1/2 of a meter, which is a total of 40 studs for both frames.Add cross-sections to support the frame and the roof of the home.
Build a frame for the remaining two walls with the dimensions of 5 by 5. You will need a total 20 wall studs for both 5 by 5 wall. Add cross-sections to support the frame and the roof of the home.
 Once all four walls are in place, do a strength test. To start this test, place varying weights onto the top plank of the wall do this for every inch of the four walls. If you see any bending, use more cross sections to strengthen the structure. If the wall needs even more strength, use triangular cross sections or more wall studs.
 Use a flat piece of wood that can cover the whole area inside and outside on all four walls. You will need 8 flat pieces of wood pieces in total one for each wall covering the inside and outside area. The measurements will be the same as the frame of the wall.


If you have a frame that is 5 by 5, the sheet of wood will be 5 by 5. Just nail the outside perimeter of the wood sheet to the frame and the wall studs.
If you have a frame that is 5 by 10, the wood cover will be 5 by 10. Then nail the outside perimeter of the wood sheet to the frame/studs.
 Cut a rectangle that is less than half the area of the wall in the center of the wall you have chosen. If you choose the wall with the longest length, then you can make a wider door cut, but the height is the same on any wall.


Once the door outline is cut, use thick planks and nail them on the perimeter of the rectangle. The door consists of planks and nails that can be either be in a cross pattern or a preferred pattern. Finally attach the door hinges to the door and the frame and grease the hinges. Add a door knob if you would like to, although Anglo Saxons did not use door knobs.
 The shape will be in the form of a triangular prism. This was the style of the Anglo Saxons and it helps prevent rain seeping into the home and ruining the floor. The width of the roof will be 5 meters and the length will be 10 meters, the height of the roof can be any size you would like to create.
 You need have the frame structurally sound before nailing it to the top planks; make sure you have all of the corners nailed and solid because you don't want the roof to fall while you are in the house. To make a more solid connection you can add wood adhesive in the corners. After you have the frame complete, you must add plank cross sections for support of the shingles or straw and also to keep out debris.
 This can be done with shingles or straw.


If you use shingles, you will have first to drill two holes in the top of each tile. Start from the top of the frame and work your way to the bottom of the both sides of the frame. Then you will have to place a peg into each tile, one by one in an overlapping pattern, until the roof is completely covered and has no holes that can cause water to leak into the home. The roof is complete!
If you choose the rolled straw, you will need rope to tie each bit of straw together. Starting from the top and working your way down, tie a piece of rope to each section of the wooden support beams. Make sure you have no holes where water can come in. The roof is complete!

, Saw out a rectangle one-fourth the area of one wall. Build a rectangular frame.The window frame should be 4/10 of a meter by 4/10. Since glass was not used in the Anglo Saxon community, you do not have to worry about covering the hole.
