 You will need to check with your local municipal and\or county building and\or planning and zoning to get a building permit before you do anything. Call or visit their offices to find out what you are required to do to get a building permit, and then go through the process and obtain your permit before you build anything.
 In order to build a pole barn, you will need to start with the right wood. The name “pole barn” can be slightly misleading, as you have the option of not only using poles but also square posts as well. You also are not limited to the construction of a barn, but any outdoor structure you would like including sheds, workshops, and garages.


You can use regular square posts, round poles, or old utility poles to build your structure. If you would like, you have the option of using logs you’ve felled or found on your own. Whatever wood you use, make sure that it is pressure-treated and rot resistant so that the integrity of your structure is not placed in jeopardy.
You will need 2x4s and 2x6s to frame the structure and add the roof trusses and lumber for the roof framing.
Use plywood to create the walls. You have the option of adding wood siding on the outside of the plywood to give added appeal to the appearance.
 Most pole barn roofs are made from metal roofing, because they are inexpensive, easy to install, and last a long time. A metal roof is also much better than shingles or rolled roofing if the structure is large, especially in areas where it snows. However if you don’t find metal roofing aesthetically pleasing, you have the option of installing shingles.


Make sure you have rust resistant roof metal for the roofing. You will also need a ridge cap to cover the center of the roof.
 You will need concrete to place around the poles in the ground, as well as gravel to create a level ground-layer and provide drainage. Use a portable mixer if you are placing many poles. You will also need galvanized screws, screw-in and straight roofing nails, and storm clips to keep your nails anchored. You can use bolted plates to attach the poles together instead of cutting notches in them as well.
 Part of the attraction of building a pole barn is the simplicity involved in putting it together. You don’t need a lot of tools, but have the option of buying/renting some bigger machines to aid in the building process.


You will need a tool to use to dig the holes for the poles. You can choose between using a post-hole digger or a tractor-powered auger. The latter is obviously less time consuming, although it is much more expensive to rent. Another option is to check for a truck mounted hole drilling service in your area.
You will need a laser-level and carpenter’s level, an electric drill with the attachment for roofing screws, a hammer, a miter or circular saw, and a hand saw.
You have the option of renting a backhoe for this project, although it is not required. You can also use a large tamper to help level the post-holes for the poles.