 Because your blind or visually impaired child cannot see light (or cannot see it well), you will need to create cues to let them know it’s time for bed. Create verbal cues and repeat them to your infant every night at the same time. This can then help your infant prepare for sleep and get used to the same bedtime every night.For example, you may schedule dinner for 6 pm every night. Then, one hour later, at the end of dinner, you can say to your infant, “Time for bedtime now. Let’s get ready for bed and close our eyes to go to sleep.”
You can also remind your infant that is is night time by saying, “It’s night time now” or “It’s 7 pm at night” so they know the time of day. They can then connect the time of day to going to sleep.;
, You can combine verbal cues with physical cues so your infant knows it is time for bed. Have the same physical cues every time your infant goes to bed so they get into a routine. The physical cues will also help them realize what time of day it is and help them prepare for sleep.Remember that infants younger than 3-6 months do not have a regular sleep pattern yet.
Recognize when your baby is showing signs of getting tired and put him to bed, so he will sleep better.
Set patterns by doing stimulating and exciting activities during the day and being more relaxed in the evening.
Give your infant the same or similar meals for dinner so they take this as a cue that it is nighttime and they will be going to bed after the meal.
Try styling your child’s hair in a specific way so they know it’s nighttime. For example, keep their hair down and brush their hair before bed every night to signal it is time for bed.
 Prepare your infant for bed by having sensory toys and items in the bed with them. This could be a plush toy they like or a toy with a pattern or ridged sides. Keep them in bed as they play or touch these items. Having these sensory items can help your infant stay calm and relaxed while they lie down in bed.You can also try reading to your child as they touch the toys to help them stay calm and relaxed. Read the same story to your infant every night as part of their bedtime routine.
Make sure you remove the plush toys in their crib or sleeping area once they are asleep. Never leave your infant alone in their crib with plush toys, as they can be a choking hazard., The key is to be consistent with your infant’s bedtime routine. Commit to the same routine and try not to deviate from it. Tell everyone in your household about the bedtime routine. Write down the routine and post it somewhere you can see it so you know when bedtime is for your infant as well as the verbal and physical cues for bedtime.When your infant goes down for naps during the day, make sure you remind them that is it daytime and they are taking a nap, not going to sleep for the night. You may tell your infant, “It’s 2 pm in the day, time for a quick nap.”

