 A Golden Watering Can is the most essential part of the process, and also the most difficult. To gain one, one must maintain a Perfect Town status for 14 days straight, and on the 15th day, you will be rewarded the elusive tool. The following steps must be followed to maintain the status.;
, Planting various trees and flowers will generally increase the rating of the town. You can buy saplings or seeds from the town store, which is placed randomly for every town, or you could plant fruit trees.


To plant saplings, flower seeds, and flowers, simply head to the area of your choice. Pull up the menu with the Y button, tap the item or scroll to it with your D-pad and press A, then pick “Drop.” This will automatically plant your flora into the ground.
To plant fruit trees, you need a shovel and some fruit. Shovels are available in the town store for 500 bells, but are not available every day, so you might need to wait. Get some fruit by pressing A against a tree with fruit in it. Pick up the fruits with B, pull up your inventory, and equip your shovel by selecting it with your stylus or D-pad. Bring it up to your character icon, press A or tap the character icon to equip it, and exit your inventory. Tap the ground or press A to dig a hole. Go back to your inventory and select the fruit, and choose “Bury.”
Don’t clump too many trees too closely to each other. They need at least one space between each or you’ll be told to get rid of some of them. If you do manage to overcrowd an area with trees, buy an Axe from the town store, equip it, then press A or tap the offending tree to get rid of it. Then equip your Shovel and press A, or tap on the stump to completely clear the area.
 Weeds pop up every day in random parts of the town, usually 3 or 4 at a time. Though all you really need to uproot are the weeds that resemble long tufts of grass. Simply go up to the weed and press A or tap the weed to get rid of them.


The other kinds of weeds that pop up are Dandelions and Clovers, but aren’t necessary to remove. Dandelions can be worn after you pick them up, and uprooting Clovers occasionally yields four-leafed clovers, which you can sell or keep to increase your luck.
 Anything and everything you leave lying on the ground outside must be picked up and either stored or sold. They are considered trash and would affect the rating of the town. Seashells on the beach and fruit do not affect this, although picking them up might make the town look more tidy.
 Flowers tend to wilt if it hasn’t rained in a few days. To amend this, you need to buy a Watering Can from the town store. Once you equip it, press A to water the flowers. Wilted flowers have a brownish tint to them and look slightly shriveled compared to healthy flowers. Properly watered flowers have water droplets dropping into the ground and a sparkling animation to indicate it has been watered.
 To be sure you’re on the right track, talk to the pelican in the first counter of the Town Hall, which is a nice looking building with a clock tower. Depending on the time you visit, a different Pelican will be at the counter, though the difference is merely the appearance and the dialogue. In any case, if you go up to the first counter and tap the pelican, or press A, you’ll be given a few options. Choose “The environment,” and they’ll comment on the opinions of the townsfolk. The pelicans also offer advice on how to improve your town.


Sometimes, the advice overlaps, so you may receive a “too many trees” comment at first consultation, then when you chop down a tree, they’d give you a “not enough trees/flowers” comment. It only means that you overcrowded an area with trees and should spread your gardening more evenly.
 Since you’re aiming for a Golden Rose, you obviously need to invest in Roses. Roses can be found all over the town, or their seeds can be bought from the town store for 80 bells. Red roses are the ones you’ll be needing for this, and luckily enough, they’re fairly common. Just walk up to the Rose and press B or tap on the flower to take them for replanting. You’ll be needing about 4 Roses to maximize your production, but at the very least, you need 2 red Roses.
 Black Roses are unusual offspring of two red Roses bred together and is absolutely necessary to make a Golden Rose.


Place your Roses side by side on a clear area. Make sure it’s clear enough that other flowers can spawn and bloom around them, which is the point of flower breeding.
You’ll need to wait at least a day before new flowers start popping up beside the original two flowers, and water them regularly. It might take you a while before it yields a Black Rose, however.
The most efficient system of breeding is by placing 4 of your chosen flowers of the same type in a 4x4 pattern in a clear area, with at least 2 spaces between them and other flowers to prevent accidental cross-pollination. The colors can be different, as long as it’s limited to two color combinations per “group.” This is to ensure the colors of the flowers that bloom are controlled.
 Leave it alone for a few days. Don’t water it at all and let it shrivel. As mentioned in the “Getting a Golden Watering Can” section, a shriveled flower is brown and wilted. This may sound strange or counter-productive after you read the next step, but this is essential for the Black Rose to transform into a Golden Rose.
 Once it’s considerably wilted, equip your Golden Watering Can and sprinkle the life-giving liquid onto the poor flower. This will trigger the transformation.
 After waiting for a day, check on your Black Rose. Except your Black Rose will be replaced by a Golden Rose! Surprise!

