 Iron needs vary during different stages of life and for men and women. Young children, adolescents experiencing growth spurts, menstruating women, and pregnant women often have elevated iron needs. Many infants are given iron supplements or fed iron-fortified formula to achieve adequate iron levels. Anemic individuals or people taking antacids also may require iron supplements to ensure adequate intake. Your doctor can help you decide whether you need additional iron supplements.In most cases, adequate iron intake can be achieved through the diet or through a standard multi-vitamin.
Pregnant women taking prenatal vitamins may already be receiving iron supplementation.
 In many cases, a simple blood test can give immediate feedback on your current iron levels and alert you to a potential deficiency.To confirm an actual deficiency or anemia, additional blood tests must be conducted. These can help determine whether the deficiency is caused by inadequate intake or another medical condition.
The people most at risk of iron deficiency are pregnant women, infants and young children, women with heavy menstrual bleeding, frequent blood donors, and people with cancer, gastrointestinal disorders, or heart failure. People who live in developing countries are also at higher risk.
 Many iron supplements are available for purchase without a prescription.Depending on your needs, a single low-dose supplement each day may help you achieve adequate intake. Remember that supplements are only necessary to make up the difference between your dietary intake and your iron needs.
Infant iron supplement drops and other specialty supplements often require a prescription from a physician or nurse practitioner.
Young children typically need 7-11 mg/day, adult men and senior women need approximately 8 mg/day, women of childbearing age need 15-18 mg/day, pregnant women need 27 mg/day, and lactating women need 9 mg/day. The Daily Value (DV) is 18 mg/day for adults and children over the age of 4. Discuss your individual iron needs with a health professional prior to supplementation.

