 Sometimes stadiums or music venues will put out job ads for a large event that they are having. Having this experience may open the doors for you to apply to future positions if you do well. Visit popular job boards like Craigslist and Indeed and search for tour roadie or crew member jobs. Alternatively, you can look up positions at local theaters like production assistant or stage crew and get experience with a local theater.


Jobs that are available at venues or stadiums include janitorial staff, lighting and sound engineers, event planners, security, set up and break down crews, ticket cashiers, and food staff.Sometimes when venues need general help they won't require any previous experience.
Look for venues that need help as soon as possible as they will be more likely to hire someone with no experience.
 There are several roadie specific job boards that contain listings for jobs related to roadies. Sometimes these websites will require you to create an account before you can view open positions.Make sure that you have an updated resume and choose jobs that meet your level of experience.


Some of the most popular roadie specific job boards include, Roadiejobs.com and Crewspace.com.
 Try to find the contact information of your favorite band on their website, or look for the manager's information and contact them to see if they need any help on the road. Long hours and intense travel mean that many people can't live the roadie lifestyle. For this reason, you may be able to get a job on the road with your favorite band even if it seems unrealistic.


You can search for band's contact information using popular search engines, however many times response rates are low.Try reaching out to the band or crew manager via social media to see if there are any job openings.
 Talk to friends that are involved in the music industry and ask them if they know of any jobs that are available in the field. If you know bar or venue owners, they may be able to make an exception for you and provide you a job with no experience. If you went for your formal education, past teachers or mentors could also point you in the right direction.


You can say something like, "I'm having a hard time finding a job. Do you know of anyone that needs a good lighting person right now?"

, Once you have the proper experience in the field that you enjoy, try to develop a team of crew members. Select people that have experience and knowledge in places that you don't. Many people are looking for lighting, sound, or visual technicians and will regularly contract work out to them.Create a business page and a website so that venues and bands can reach out to you.
Network with existing contacts to see if there's anyone that's in search of your skills. Once you get a couple of jobs under your belt, see if your prior customers can refer you to other businesses that need your services.
If you have a reliable and knowledgeable crew, it will be easy to take on projects that require a lot of different types of work.
You may also want to obtain a business license for your crew.
Since you won't always be on tour, you'll need to be able to supplement your tour work with work that you can do while you're off-tour.
The more jobs you get as a freelancer the more reputable your work will become.

