 You can use two different colors, or two threads of the same color. Using a ruler, make each thread 28 to 30 inches (71 to 76 cm) long for a bracelet; add length for an anklet or necklace.
 Lay out the two threads evenly. Grab the middle of the bunch (make sure it's the middle by seeing if the bottom threads line up). Pinch the threads about two inches down from the center point with your other hand, so that the bundle looks like one thread. Make a loop with the bundle, then pull the rounded center of the bundle through the center. You should have a small loop of thread above the knot, and four threads coming down from the knot.
 Use masking tape to attach the small threads coming out of the knot to a table or counter, or put a safety pin through the knot and attach it to the top of your jeans (while sitting down). A secured knot will make it easy for you to keep consistent tension as you make your bracelet.
 Hold your four strands separately. Take the one on the far right and loop it over and under the strand second to the right. Put the end through the loop; pull the thread creating the knot vertically, or perpendicular to your jeans or the table, as you pull the other three threads horizontally, or parallel to your jeans or the table. This should cause the knot you just tied to run all the way up to the top knot.
 Still using the far-right thread, loop over and under the second-left thread. Pull the knot up as you did before. Repeat the process on the far-left thread.
 Now, the thread that was on the far right should be on the far left. Grab the new far-right thread and begin the process again, tying cross knots on each thread going left. Keep going this way.
 Stop when you have about 2 inches (5 cm) of thread left. Tie an overhand knot as close as possible to your last knot. Then tie another overhand knot about a half-inch (1.3 cm) away from the end of the tail.
 When the bracelet is on your friend's wrist, pull the tail you just finished through the loop above the top knot. Then double the tail back on itself and tie an overhand knot to finish. Your friend should be able to remove the bracelet with one hand at the end of the day.

