 The bigger the mirror is, the better. The big round wall mirrors are perfect!;
, A small, portable laptop gives you the flexibility for this trick.
 The remote control should be small enough that you can hold it in your hand without anyone noticing. Make sure the remote is connected with your laptop and allows you to control it from a distance.
 If you don't have one already, download and install an application or other program on your computer that allows you to record your voice. The program should export the result as a .mp3 file.
 These recordings should be suitable answers to the question "Mirror mirror on the wall, who's the fairest of them all?" Each answer should be a separate .mp3 or recording. Record some compliments and some insults, but keep it believable and try not to overdo it with the insults, as this could be rude or offensive.


Be sure to alter your voice, as you won't want the mirror to sound just like you do. Either change your voice when you speak, or download a program to alter your voice in the recording.
 Windows Media Player, iTunes, or any other music player will work. Create a new playlist and import into it all your recordings. Save the list. Select the shuffle option on your player, so that a random response plays every time. This will make it less obvious that the answers are recorded, as they won't be the same every time.
 If it doesn't already, you may need to configure it using the settings. The most important functions that you should set up on your remote control are: Play, Pause and Stop.
 If possible, place it behind the mirror, so that the sound actually comes out through the mirror. Make sure that no one can see your laptop, and that it's loud enough to be heard from in front of the mirror.


You can also connect your laptop to speakers wirelessly or using Bluetooth. Then hide the speakers, which may be smaller and easier to disguise, near the mirror while your laptop remains wherever it is safe and inconspicuous.
 When your friend comes over, tell her that you own a magic mirror. She will likely think that you are crazy, but offer to prove it. Holding the remote control in your pocket or hidden in your hand, go near to the 'magic' mirror and ask loudly: "Mirror mirror on the wall, who's the fairest of them all?"

, Let the first recording play and right after it ends, click on the pause or stop button of your remote control. This will make it look like the mirror is responding directly to you. Repeat a couple of times and enjoy your friend's surprised face.
 Tell her not to tell anyone, because you want to keep as a secret the fact that you own a magic mirror.

