 Get a hoodie in your desired color (pink, purple or white will work well). You’ll also need pieces of felt in complementary colors, such as white and pink, as well as some cotton stuffing, which is available at your local fabric or craft supply store.


You’ll also need a sharp pair of scissors, sewing machine or needle and thread, and some pins.
Alternately, you can use a glue gun to attach pieces to the hoodie, instead of sewing them on.;
, Cut equal numbers of felt, measuring 9 inches long and 2 inches wide. Cut enough pieces to cover from the crown of the hood (about 4” from the front top of the hood) to the bottom hem of the hoodie, laying them lengthways., Fold each felt piece into a circle by joining the short ends together. Overlap the pieces by about one inch. Pin these pieces along the backside of the hoodie.


Use a zigzag stitch on your sewing machine to attach the pieces to the hoodie. Alternately, sew this by hand.
You can also attach these pieces with safety pins on the inside of the hoodie. This will enable you to reuse the hoodie without the unicorn features.Cover the safety pins with duct tape to ensure that the costume wearer won’t get poked by pins if they accidentally open up.
 Once the mane is attached to the hoodie, cut the looped ends with your scissors, making 3 cuts lengthways on each loop. Then cut each loop open so that you have a frayed-looking mane.
 Cut two triangles of felt in one color such as white, and cut two triangles in another color such as pink. The white triangles should be larger than the pink triangles, and the white ones should be about the size of the palm of your hand.


Layer a white and pink triangle together, with the white on the bottom. Sew the two triangles together by sewing along the center. Do the same for the other set of triangles.
 Place the ears on each side of the mane a couple of inches back from the front edge of the hood. Pin them in place. Try on the hoodie to check for placement. Stitch them in place using a needle and thread, or use safety pins on the inside of the hood to attach them.
 The horn is the essential part of the costume. Cut a large triangle out of white felt. The triangle should be a couple of inches longer than the length of the hood. Fold the triangle together lengthwise and stitch it closed. This will form the cone shape of the unicorn horn.


Fill the horn with cotton stuffing. Use a knitting needle or pencil to push stuffing into the point of the horn. Make sure the horn is evenly stuffed but not overstuffed.
 Pin the horn in place on the very top center of the hoodie. Try on the hoodie to check for placement. Take the hoodie off, and using a matching color of thread, hand stitch the horn in place.


Use a whipstitch to secure the horn in place. To do a whipstitch, poke the needle through the underside of the hoodie and bring it up through the hoodie and through the horn felt. Then poke the needle through the hoodie just under the base of the horn and back up through the felt. This makes a loop of thread that will secure the horn in place.Stitch all around the base of the horn.
 Cut long, thin pieces of felt that will extend down to the knees when your costume is on. These can be a combination of colors. Gather the pieces together at one of the short ends and stitch them to the center back base of the hoodie.
 Put on the hoodie and zip it up. Complete the costume with matching or complementary pants or leggings, shoes, and gloves.


You can also paint your face to look like a unicorn.

