 Determine how much you can afford to spend before you shop to avoid falling in love with a stone that falls out of your price range. Only examine pieces you know you can afford based on your budget.
 Clarity, or the number of inclusions, often determines the quality of a stone. Prices also vary depending on color.


Low quality to mid-range aquamarines can range from $5 to $100 per carat.
Past 10 carats, mid-range aquamarines can cost between $150 and $200 per carat.
High quality aquamarines are much more expensive. An unheated light blue stone can cost around $90 per carat, while a light blue-green stone can cost between $180 to $240 per carat.
The most expensive unheated stones are medium to strong sky blue, and they can cost up to $550 and $600 per carat.
Heated aquamarines with a strong blue-green hue can cost around $180 per carat.
 Many shoppers prefer silver and white gold settings, since theses cool-toned metals coordinate nicely with blue hues. Yellow gold settings often look nice with deep blue-green aquamarines, however.
 Blue topaz is considerably less valuable than aquamarine, but the two stones can look very similar.


Avoid gemstones labeled as "Brazilian Aquamarine" or "Nerchinsk Aquamarine," since both of these actually refer to blue topaz.
Also avoid "Siam Aquamarine," which is actually blue zircon.
 Since natural aquamarines are prevalent and easy to mine, they often prove less costly than synthetic aquamarines.
 Trusted chains are good place to start, but if you want a less expensive option, look at the selection offered by local jewelers and individual sellers. When going to a lesser known source, ask for official certification from a nationally recognized gemological organization, such as the Gemological Institute of America (GIA).
 Loose gemstones are often less expensive, and you can examine the quality of the stone more thoroughly. Loose stones also provide you with greater customization opportunities.
 Check the prices and selection at various jewelers, both online and in person. Monitor each jeweler for sales and clearances.

