 Dry nasal passages make it harder for your body to cure the infection. Staying hydrated helps thin the built-up mucus and reduce the feeling of pressure or blockage.Extra fluids can also help soothe a sore throat.


Men should drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of fluids per day.Women should drink at least 9 cups (2.2. liters) of fluids per day. When you’re fighting off infection, you will need even more.Try to drink at least 8 ounces of water every 2 hours.
Water is the best option, but non-caffeinated tea, and clear broths are also good options. If you’ve been vomiting, sports drinks containing electrolytes may be necessary to replenish your electrolyte balance.
Avoid alcohol. It will actually increase the swelling in your sinuses.Alcohol and caffeine also dehydrate you, so avoid them while you’re sick.;
, European elder is an herb commonly used to treat respiratory illnesses. It has anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties.It also helps boost your immune system. You can find elderberry extract as a syrup, lozenge, or supplemental capsule at most drug stores and nutrition stores.


Alternatively, you can steep 3-5 grams of dried elder flower in a cup of boiling water for 10-15 minutes. Strain the flowers after they have steeped. Drink this tea up to 3 times per day.
Do not use unripe or uncooked elderberries, as they may be toxic.If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, do not take elderberries or elderberry extract.
If you have an autoimmune disease, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus, consult with your doctor before taking elderberries or elderberry extract.
Elderberry may interact with diabetic medication, laxatives, chemotherapy drugs, or immunosuppressants. If you take any of these medications, consult your doctor before taking elderberry.
 Pineapples are rich in an enzyme called bromelain, which is used in medicines for reducing swelling and inflammation of the nose and sinuses.You can get bromelain by eating two slices of fresh pineapple or drinking pineapple juice daily.
If you are allergic to latex, wheat, celery, carrot, fennel, cypress pollen, or grass pollen, you might experience an allergic reaction to bromelain.
Do not eat soybeans or potatoes with pineapple, as they both contain substances that hamper the effect of bromelain.
 Getting enough sleep is important for your body to heal itself. Try to lie on your back when you’re congested. If you’re a side sleeper, sleep on the side that is least congested. Try to get a full 24-hour period of rest, if possible.Sleeping with your head propped up on a pillow can help keep mucus from blocking your sinuses. The pillow should support the natural curve of your neck and be comfortable. A pillow that’s too high can cause muscle strain in your back, neck, and shoulders. Choose a pillow that will keep your neck aligned with your chest and lower back.Avoid sleeping on your stomach. This can make it difficult for you to breathe when you’re congested. It can also put strain on your neck and shoulders.
Avoid caffeine, alcohol, and sugary foods 4-6 hours before bed.
Avoid exercise 2 hours before bedtime. Regular, moderate exercise can help you sleep better, especially if you exercise in the afternoon.Talk with your doctor if you frequently sleep poorly. You may have sleep apnea, which frequently interrupts your breathing during sleep. Your doctor may recommend surgery or CPAP therapy, which involves a small air pressure machine that you wear while sleeping., Stress weakens your immune system and makes it harder for you to fight off infection. Reducing your stress can help you manage your sinusitis.Try stress reduction activities such as socializing with friends, listening to music, or taking some quiet time for yourself.
Lemon balm can be helpful in alleviating stress. It can also help relieve symptoms of anxiety and insomnia. You can find lemon balm as dried or fresh leaves, tea, capsules, extracts, tinctures, and essential oils. To make lemon balm tea, steep 1.5-4.5 grams (¼ - 1 tsp) of dried lemon balm in hot water. Drink up to 4 times daily.Chamomile also helps relieve stress and promotes relaxation. To make chamomile tea, pour one cup of boiling water over 2-4 grams (2-3 tbsp) of dried chamomile or a chamomile tea bag. Steep for 10-15 minutes and drink 3-4 times per day. Chamomile may not be suitable for pregnant women, people with asthma, people with low blood sugar, or people taking blood-thinning medications. Some people may be allergic to chamomile.