 Divorces can be very complicated and difficult to navigate on one's own. Even if you don't have children or many assets, it's not something you want to do all by yourself. At the very least, you should have an attorney look over your divorce paperwork. Shop around for a divorce lawyer to find one you can afford.


Look for an attorney who specializes in handling divorces. Don't select just anyone from the phone book - you'll want someone with experience. This is especially important if your spouse doesn't want to get a divorce, or if you plan to sue for grounds (such as adultery).
If you don't feel you can afford an attorney, you could still hire a paralegal to help you navigate the process or review your paperwork to make sure it is filled out properly.
Some states have resources for a "do it yourself" divorce. Conduct research to find out if this option is available to you., The requirements and paperwork for filing for divorce differ by state. Work with your attorney to carefully fill out the proper paperwork and file it on time. In most cases, the first step will be to file a petition for divorce with your local court clerk, where your petition will receive a case number. Your spouse will be informed and will need to respond to the petition.
 Depending on the specifics of your divorce, you may be able to settle it out of court with a mediator. If it's a "no contest" divorce, meaning both parties are fully on board and are on amicable terms, you might not need to go to court.If it's contested, meaning your spouse doesn't want the divorce or doesn't agree to your terms, you will likely have to go to court to have a judge rule on matters of property distribution, alimony, child custody and child support.


Throughout the process, you may need to present evidence related to your financial situation. Organize your bank statements, pay stubs, receipts, and other papers so you have them ready if you need them. Your attorney should help you with every step of the process to make sure it goes smoothly.
If the custody of your children is in question, there will be a separate set of paperwork to work through. Be prepared to present evidence related to your fitness as a parent. You'll need to show you have a steady income, stable living situation, and so on.
 This will be an emotional experience for you. The divorce process itself may take many months - months that can be emotionally grueling and exhausting. After that, it will take a long time to get used to your new situation, whether or not the divorce was contentious. Lean on your friends and family for support, and get outside help from a counselor when necessary to get through this difficult time. In the end, when your marriage is really over, you can celebrate this chance for a new chapter in your life.

