 This is the most important part of the process. Once you have decided the name that you want, check to see if it is available by checking the Michigan LLC Name Database. Your name should include one of the following at the end of the name:L.L.C.
LLC
L.C.
LC
Limited Liability Company;
, Once you have chosen a name, you can reserve it for up to six months by filing an application with the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs’ Bureau of Commercial Services. The application can be sent through the mail or online.


Registering a name requires a $25 filing fee.
 This step is optional for establishing an LLC in Michigan, but it is highly recommended that you establish an operating agreement at the time of filing your articles. According to Michigan’s legal code, an operating agreement is a written agreement between the members of an LLC outlining the organization and affairs of the LLC., LLCs are required to appoint a registered agent at the time of filing for Articles of Organization. This is a person designated by the LLC to accept legal process (any notice or demand that is served upon the company).


The agent is responsible for sharing information about any legal process with the company.
 You will have to file an Articles of Organization to the state which is your official application for forming an LLC. Completely fill in all the blanks and if you do not understand any part of what it is asking you, see legal counsel.
 Certain professions are required to use an alternate form of Articles of Organization. This form is appropriate for companies that will be providing dental, medical, religious, or legal services, specifically those “services rendered by a dentist, an osteopathic physician, a physician, a surgeon, a doctor of divinity or other clergy, or an attorney-at-law.”Note that the business name for these businesses should include one of the following at the end of the name in lieu of a regular “LLC” designation:P.L.L.C.
P.L.C.
PLLC
PLC



, Once you have filled out the appropriate paperwork, send it in to the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.Make a check payable in the amount of $50 to the “State of Michigan.”
Mail the filing fee and Articles of Organization to: Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, Securities & Commercial Licensing Bureau, Corporations Division, P.O. Box 30054, Lansing, MI, 48909.
Deliver the Articles of Organization in person at: 2510 Woodlake Circle, Okemos, MI. Payments may be made by check, money order, VISA, or Mastercard with in-person delivery.
 If you want faster processing of your LLC application documents, submit the expedited service form with your application.You should include the appropriate fee(s) for your expedited service. The processing times below are from the time/day that the articles are received:

Same-day: $100 (must be received by 1PM)
Two-hour: $500 (must be received by 3PM)
One hour: $1000 (must be received by 4PM)


Expedited service can be requested by mail or in person.
 You will receive your LLC, depending if you have done expedited services or not, within 3 to 10 business days. The information should be mailed to the correspondence address you provided.
 You will need to apply for an EIN Number where you will be able to open a bank account. If you have more than one member in your LLC, an EIN/Tax ID number is required by law.
 In addition to incorporating your business, you need to obtain any local or state licenses required for doing business in the state of Michigan.


The nature of your company and your location will influence the types of licensing you will be required to maintain.

