 Planning ahead will make you have a more enjoyable car ride.


Dress comfortably, don't wear makeup (if your parents let you. You aren't really going out in public anywhere, and people can't see you really well through your car window.), and relax. If you must wear makeup, just apply a tiny bit of lip gloss or chap stick. Rest stops are full of people dressed casually. No one will care if you go into a store wearing your pajamas.
Charge electronics the day before, and pack a charger for the car.;
, It is recommended that you get some rest before the car ride as it is very hard to sleep in a moving car for many people and because you are less likely to enjoy the sights to see if you can barely hold your eyes open. But, in the situation where there is a very long car ride ahead of you (ex. 7+ hours), you may want to stay up so that you can sleep through the boring drive.
 Buy a few books and/or magazines before you go, as reading also helps time pass, and puts you into another world. However, you should skip this step if you get carsick easily.
 Bring a small bag full of gaming consoles, magazines, magnetic board games and other things you'll enjoy. Pack a few healthy snacks such as cut carrots or nuts to keep you full.


Make sure all of your electronics are charged! This includes your iPod, gaming console, laptop, and any other device you may bring with you. You don't want your device to die and still have 6 hours until you get to your destination.
 Don't forget headphones or earphones though! The last thing you want is to be forced to stop the DVD because it's too loud or inappropriate for a younger sibling, or too annoying/childish/distracting for anyone.
 Drawing can really help pass the time and you can even write in a journal about your time on a road trip. If you have trouble writing while in motion, press your paper against the window or seat and press firmly.
 Try bringing a healthier snack instead of candy or chips, because it will help keep you from getting sick and will also keep you fuller. Some good foods are cut carrots, raisins, assorted nuts, and apples.


Don't bring chocolate or any other kind of candy that can melt- it'll make a huge mess.
 A backpack or suitcase for your clothes (to put in the trunk) and a small shoulder bag for on-the-road entertainment (to keep with you) this way you won't have to root through clothes to find something to do.
 Discuss what you want to do as soon as you get to the destination, or talk about anything; it really passes the time. Try and make the most of what you have, so the people around you can't be so bad. Try playing a game to take your mind off the toilet if you need to go to the restroom!

, Staying hydrated is important, but make sure to pay attention to when the next rest stop is.
 Salty food will make you thirsty and being thirsty means having to drink more water, which means going to the bathroom more often. Only eat salty foods if you know there will be a rest stop close by.
 It makes things tougher for everyone. Someone is going to get hurt, and the driver will get distracted.
 Make sure you keep your sibling entertained too because you do not want to have to listen to complaints or be called self-centered.
 You can also play pictionary with your siblings if you have a drawing app on your cell phone or iPod.
 If you have a camera, bring it along and take pictures of all the amazing sites you see or even of you and your family. They will keep memories and later you could make a scrapbook if you want.
 Don't be grumpy either. No one wants to be stuck in a car with someone who complains every 5 minutes.
 Seat belts prevent death and help you survive car accidents. Wear your belt properly and use a booster seat if you need to in order for the seat belt to be effective. Do not forsake safety for comfort.
 You are more likely to survive a long car journey as a teen if you don't distract the car driver in any way. Allow them to concentrate on reaching your destination safely.
 It is tempting, as a teen, to head off on a road trip with your mates but ensure who ever is driving is a competent, licensed, insured driver with a vehicle in good working order.

