 It may make you feel more productive to push through to the end of a task, but getting some space from it can actually help. Taking a break can assist with mental clarity, as well as boost your mood and memory.Try to take breaks regularly throughout the day, and you'll likely notice an increase in your productivity.
 Another way to calm yourself is to use deep breathing techniques. Deep breathing just means taking a moment for yourself to relax and focus on your breathing, sort of a mini-meditation. All you need to do is close your eyes (if you can) and focus on your breathing.Try breathing in for four counts, holding for four counts, breathing out for four counts, and holding for four counts. Repeat a couple of times until you feel yourself calming down.
 Make sure you're getting enough natural sunlight during the day. Being stuck inside, especially during the winter months, can mean you're not getting enough sunlight. Sunlight helps your body produce vitamin D, which can boost your mood. Try to spend a few minutes outside on your breaks. You can also open your blinds or go stand by a window on your breaks., Exercise is a natural mood booster — in fact, it may be as effective in treating depression as some antidepressants — so if you can work some exercise into your day, you can help increase your productivity.Try adding some small exercise routines that you can do around your workspace or during your breaks.For instance, take a short walk around the office or outside the building on your lunch break.
Try doing a few jumping jacks when there are no customers around.
When you feel yourself getting tired, try standing up and jogging in place for a few minutes.
If you already have an active job that makes you move around, that's all the better.
 If you are experiencing anxiety in addition to depression, it may help to find someone you can vent to. Of course, it must be someone you trust implicitly, so you know they won't go behind your back and use the information against you. Nonetheless, having someone to talk to at work can help keep your stress levels down.If you don't trust someone enough at work, find a friend outside of work. It won't be quite the same (since they don't know who's involved), but they can still listen.

