


Charcoal grills come in many sizes-from the tiny hibachi to huge kettle grills. To determine the best size for you, think about the kinds and amount of food that you'll be cooking. You may simply be cooking burgers for 2 or you may be cooking for a crowd.
Unless you are in the market for a hibachi-style grill, you should consider at least 300 square inches (762 square cm) of cooking space. Grills are available with cooking space as large as 1,400 square inches (3,556 square cm) for those who need a very large cooking area.
Indirect grilling is when the food is cooked on one side of the grill, opposite the hot coals. If you will be grilling indirectly, you will want to consider enough cooking space to accommodate this technique.
Often you may be grilling large items--grill-roasting a turkey or making beer can chicken, for example. You should consider the height of the lid to be sure that there is enough room to house items of that size.;
,


The body of a quality grill is made of heavy gauge or stainless steel. This is especially important if the grill will be kept outside where it could be susceptible to rust.
Charcoal grilling requires moving coals around or shifting food on the grate. Sturdy legs will assure that the grill remains steady and secure during these tasks.
The best grill grates are made of heat-conducting cast iron or stainless steel. Some are coated with enamel. Grates should be sturdy, be able to withstand scraping with a grill brush and be rust-resistant.
Airflow controls should be easy to adjust and be located on the lid and the bottom of the grill. Dual airflow controls allow for easy control of the interior temperature.
The ash catcher should be large and easy to remove, making the task of cleaning out your grill a simple one.



Some grills come with a built-in thermometer. Knowing the temperature inside the grill helps, especially when using a cooking technique such as grill-roasting. Some of these thermometers can also be used as meat thermometers.
An insulated handle makes opening and closing your grill lid a safe and painless task.
Hinged grates allow you to add charcoal or move coals around without having to lift the entire grate off of the grill or disturbing the food that is cooking.
Side tables give you built-in counter space to place dishes, ingredients and other necessities.
Some grills include a built-in smoker box that allows you to add smoky flavor to your food as it grills simply by adding soaked wood chips.
Utensil holders allow you to keep your grill brush, spatula, tongs and other grilling equipment within reach while you're at the grill.
A locking lid on portable models gives you assurance that moving your grill around will not result in spillage.

