, It's in the top-right corner of the page, to the left of the bell icon.
 This link is next to the "Don't have an account?" text in the bottom-right side of the page.
 You'll need to type in the following information:


First name
Last name
Email address - Your preferred Yahoo email address. If your email address is already taken, you'll have to type in a different one.
Password
Mobile phone number - Without a mobile phone number, you can't create a Yahoo account.
Birth date (month, day, and year)
You can also add your gender to the "Gender" field if you like.
 It's the blue button at the bottom of the screen.


If you've neglected to fill out any of the required fields or your selected username isn't available, you won't be able to proceed until you correct the problem.
 Doing so will prompt Yahoo to text a code to the mobile number you entered earlier.


You can also tap Call me with an Account Key to have Yahoo call you and recite the code.
 You'll see a message from a six-digit number here.
 Doing so will open it. Your five-digit code will be listed like so: "is Your Yahoo Account Key."


If you decided to tap Call me with an Account Key, you should write down the spoken number before continuing.
 This field is in the middle of the screen, just below the "Enter the Account Key we sent to " heading.
 It's the blue button near the middle of the screen.
 Doing so will take you to your Yahoo inbox where you can proceed with setting up your account preferences.
 It's below the purple envelope icon in the top-right corner of the Yahoo home page.
 You'll see this gear in the top-right corner of the Yahoo mailbox. Doing so will open your Yahoo account's settings.
 You can view and change settings by clicking the following tabs on the left side of the settings window:



Viewing email - This menu allows you to change the way your mail is displayed.

Writing email - You can change the size of your email text, the font used, and how new recipients are handled in your contacts list from here.

Accounts - View accounts that are connected to your Yahoo account, or connect other accounts (e.g., Facebook or Google Drive) to your Yahoo account.

Vacation Response - Enable and write the default message that recipients will receive when they email you while you're away.

Filters - Manage email addresses or subjects that you don't want to have appear in your inbox.

Security - Decide whether or not to show images in emails and when to delete spam, or create a disposable email address for use on unreliable sites.

Blocked Addresses - Manage email addresses that you've blocked from being able to contact you at all.
 It's the blue button at the bottom of the settings window. Your Yahoo account is now set up and ready to go!

