 Whenever you have a suspicion about someone or another type of paranoid thought, write it down in a journal. Include details about the situation, such as who you are with and what else is happening at the time. This can help you to identify your triggers for these types of thoughts.
 Use common sense and logic before reacting or speaking by lessening your emotional response and increasing your rational side. If you don't know something about someone or a situation, avoid making an assumption. Aim for taking a calm and logical approach to all situations presented before you, ask questions before making judgments, and seek explanations and evidence before reaching conclusions.Suspicious behavior destroys relationships. Do not give your power to thoughts. Challenge their truth. Ask yourself, “Is this true? What evidence do I have to prove this?”

, When you stay active and committed to doing things that really matter to you, it's harder to be overwhelmed by suspicions. Get involved in activities that keep you purposefully occupied and spend time with people who distract you in an enjoyable way. Seize the meaningful opportunities that are bound to come your way when you keep a more open mind.


Instead of expecting people to let you down or hurt you, expect pleasant things to come your way and wonderful people to share your experiences with.
Look for people you can connect with and learn from and grow with.
 Suspicion and paranoia are based on proving yourself right about people being untrustworthy or unfaithful. You likely tend to look for confirmation of these beliefs and prove yourself right about people. However, being proven right about someone's untrustworthy behavior doesn't actually help you experience trust or safety. Instead of keeping your attention on all the ways people can and might hurt you, shift your focus to behaviors that prove people can be counted on, trusted, and relied upon.


For example, if someone says they will meet you for lunch and they show up, prove to yourself that they said they’d do something and they did it.

