 First, pencil in appointments that you must keep. Allow time for work, study, and family. Then, take the leftover time and start making exciting plans! Go to the gym, shop, visit friends, throw parties, organize dinners and hit the clubs! You will meet a ton of interesting people and have great experiences to look back on later in life. Celebs are always out and about, whether they are attending shows, seeing movies, or just spending time in the sun.


People will love hanging out with you because you are fun and energetic, and, more importantly, you'll be hard to get ahold of, which will make people value your time more and work harder to impress you.
 Celebrity status of an individual seems to magnify any small accidents. Once a celebrity makes even the smallest of errors, their flaws are plastered all over media outlets. To lead a celebrity life, you must keep your reputation in check and always treat others with respect., Celebrities often amass huge followings on social media platforms such as Twitter and Instagram. Express yourself authentically, and your fans will find you. Follow a lot of celebrities and become inspired by the way they share their words or photographs with the public.
 Dating drama is very much an aspect of celebrity culture, right? Of course, we advise healthy relationships above all else, but manufacturing a bit of 'drama' can get you in the limelight. Just be sure that your flawless reputation remains intact!

, A furry friend can make the best accessory. Take notes from Scarlett Johansson, Jessica Simpson, and Britney Spears, who are known to carry their pets around with them. Just be sure that your puppy is comfortable. If you begin doing this, people will assume you are famous and fabulous in no time!, Be supportive of third-world countries by donating money or goods. Become inspired by celebrity do-gooders such as Angelina Jolie.
 Celebs love to have fun in the sun, so consider visiting a tropical island. Be sure to bring your camera along, as you will want to document the vacation for your fans at home! Slather on some sunscreen and work on that tan. You deserve to treat yourself to a good time.
 Your fans will want to know all about you, including your quirks and talents. Try out something goofy, such as juggling, or join a dance class to work on your moves. Once you become skilled at something, show it off on social media or in a public venue. Take pride in your accomplishments! If people see that you are excited about what you're doing, they will gain enthusiasm for you as well.