 AppShopper is a utility that allows you to sign up for alerts regarding paid apps. When these apps drop in price or become free, you'll receive a notification.
 It's in the top-right side of the web page.
 This pale-blue button is below the text fields on this page.
 Do so in the provided text fields on the right side of the page. This information includes the following:



Username - Your preferred username for the site. You'll use this name to log in.

Password - A password for the site.

Re-type Password - Enter your password again to ensure that it matches the above field.

Email - A working email address. Consider using an email address that you frequently use, since this is where you'll get notifications.

Re-type Email - Enter your email address again to ensure that it matches up with the first email address you entered.
 It's below the "Re-type Email" field. Doing so will indicate that you have read and accepted the AppShopper Terms and Conditions that are listed to the left of the fields.
 As long as all of your information is valid, doing so will sign you up for an AppShopper account.
 If you aren't already signed in, do so before continuing.
 If you don't see this email, look in your email provider's "Junk" or "Spam" folder, as well as in any extra folders (e.g., the "Updates" folder in Gmail or the "Other").
 Doing so will verify your email address and take you back to the AppShopper site.
 It's in the top-right side of the page.
 Doing so will log you into your AppShopper profile.
 It's a tab near the top of the page.
 The "Notifications" heading is on the right side of the page. You'll see two options below it that you should click to check:



Notify Me of Price Drops - You'll receive an email from AppShopper when apps in your wishlist drop in price.

Notify Me of Wishlist Updates - When an app is removed from the store, you'll receive a notification that it has been removed from your wishlist.
 It's in the top-left corner of the webpage. Doing so will save your settings and return you to the main page.
 You may have to scroll down to find your app, or you click the magnifying glass icon in the top-right corner of the page and type in an app's name to search for it specifically.


Make sure the bar in the far-left corner of the toolbar near the top of the page says "All iOS"; if it doesn't, click the bar and then click All iOS.
 It's on the right side of the app, just above the big blue Buy button. Clicking Wish will add the app to your AppShopper wishlist; when the app comes down in price, you'll receive a notification, at which point you can download it from the App Store.

