 Knowing what is important to you, aside from money, is key to feeling fulfilled and happy. Reflect on where you come from, where you are, and where you want to go in life. Brainstorm a list of the things that are most important to you, and then consider ranking or grouping them. Values might include things like:A strong sense of family
Charity (giving to others)
Independence (the feeling that you are able to do what you want to)
Pride in your work or other accomplishments

, Research shows that having enough money to cover your expenses and leave some leftover to enjoy life does boost feelings of happiness. Not having enough money to cover your needs can increase stress. After a certain point, however, more money doesn’t mean more happiness. Keep this in mind when determining what it will take for you to feel rich.Remember that rich people encounter their own problems that aren’t a factor in the lives of others. For instance, they may worry that their children will be labeled “trust fund babies,” or that their friends will only like them because they have money.
 Practicing thankfulness means taking the time to reflect on the good things you have, no matter how wealthy you are. It’s especially important to recognize the things you have or that are good in your life, independent of money. You can try keeping a “gratitude journal” where you write down things you are thankful for every day or week. You can also tell others that you are thankful for them. For example:You might include an entry in your gratitude journal that describes how you are thankful that someone held the door for you when your hands were full, or how you are thankful for your good health.
You could tell your sister “Jane, I just wanted to let you know how thankful I am that you always have a positive attitude. You always lift my spirits!”

, Even if you aren’t rich, you can take some steps to feel more financially secure. The more you can lower your debt, the better you will feel about your financial situation, no matter your income or wealth. Having fewer financial obligations means that you can free up more income to save, invest, or spend on meaningful experiences.Pay down your credit cards, if you have any
Work to pay off any loans you may have, such as a mortgage or student loans
Avoid taking on more debt for things you don’t really need. For example, if your current car works fine, don’t take out a loan to buy a new one.
 You are more likely to feel happy living in a location that has well-functioning infrastructures, a stable government, an open society, and amenities that you value. While moving isn't always the easiest thing to do, you might consider relocating to increase your happiness, if you don’t like where you are now.The right location for you depends on your values--some people want the excitement and amenities of a metropolitan area, while others long for the openness, quiet, and solitude of rural areas.

