 The most important thing to do while teaching someone to dance, especially a beginner, is to make her feel comfortable about herself and her skills. Encourage her to work hard on it, feel its beauty, have fun with it, and develop a liking for it.;
, Boost your student's confidence by first teaching easy steps that she can quickly master. As she gets better at learning steps, slowly increase the bar of difficulty, but make sure to give her time to adapt to the harder moves.
 A long routine is difficult to learn, so break the steps down into smaller, bite-sized chunks and gradually build up to the full series of choreography.
 While it's good to challenge your student in practice, performances should show off her skills, so pick steps that show what she's best at.
 Many people new to dancing will have trouble picking up steps that are second nature for more experienced dancers. Learning new steps or topics is difficult, so patience is crucial on part of the dancer as well as the teacher. As for a student, never give up on a step you can't get right. Its the teacher's job to identify what the student does best and adjust to students best dancing points rather than his/hers.
 If your student has been struggling with a tricky step, continuing to practice will often make them frustrated block her learning. Taking a break and coming back to it the next day gives her time to absorb the step, letting it sink in without frustrating her. You'll often find that when you come back to that step the next day, your student will be able to pick it up much more easily than if you had tried to push through the frustration.
 Practice is the key to excellence, for established dancers and beginners alike. Encourage your students to put their best into their practices and performances alike, as this is the best way to improve.
 Dancing should be a way to emote, to feel and bring pleasure to one's soul. Forget yourself and the surroundings and dance like no one is watching.
 Explain the emotions behind each step, the musicality of the dance, and your overall vision for the dance to help her understand what she should be expressing in the dance.
 Any dance that comes from deep feeling or emotion, from following the heart, will be a beautiful dance. The best way to enjoy a dance, and to make it look good, is to understand it on an emotional level. Your student should feel each step, maintain rhythm, dance with energy, and enjoy what she does.

