 Wet-sanding uses decreasing levels of abrasion to scrub away and buff smooth a clouded plastic surface. There are many variations of this method when it comes to cleaning car headlamp covers, since oxidation can cause clouding that may reduce the effective brightness of your headlights.


Clean the surface of the plastic item first with a gentle soap, soft cloth, and clean water.
Protect any surrounding surfaces (e.g., car paint or chrome around your headlamp covers) with thick layers of painter’s tape, or even taped-down plastic sheeting., Soak the sandpaper in clean water, or spray it down while working. Keep the plastic damp as well. Use firm and even, but not excessive, pressure. Rinse and check the surface for even abrasion when switching sandpaper grades.


For a more aggressive application on, for instance, a car headlamp cover, you could use 400, 600, and 2000-grit sandpaper.To exert greater caution with your headlamp covers (or with something like a boat windscreen), try using 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, and finally 3000-grit sandpaper., After thoroughly rinsing the item and drying it with a soft, lint-free cloth, apply a commercial polishing compound to fine-tune the abrasion process. Follow the instructions provided with the product, but expect to go very slowly so that you can methodically work the compound over the plastic item.Look for abrasive polishing compounds for plastics at auto parts or marine retailers.
If your plastic item doesn’t require this level of care, you can opt to simply wipe rubbing alcohol over the rinsed plastic in order to remove any lingering dust, oils, or residue., Unfortunately, once you’ve done all this work to make your plastic crystal clear, the yellowing and clouding process will begin again immediately. If you want to add some more time before you have to wet-sand the plastic item again, consider applying UV protection to retard the impact of ultraviolet light.


For automobile headlamp covers, for instance, you could apply a paste wax intended to provide UV protection.Or, you could use a UV protectant clear-coat spray. If so, work slowly (according to the product instructions) and be sure to fully cover any areas (car paint, etc.) that you don’t want the clear-coat to get on.