









Split end. A receiver on the line of scrimmage split one or more steps outside the tackle. The receiver has to be fast and strong enough to break through a jamming opponent at the line and quickly get open for a pass.
Flanker. A receiver behind the line of scrimmage split one or more steps outside the tackle. He has to break through and past opponents at the line The flanker is on the same side as the tight end, lined up just like a split end but a step or two behind the line.
Slot back. He lines up in the backfield between the split end and the tackle.;
, Learn from the pros. Watch how they move and interact with the ball so you can emulate what works for them.
 To be a wide receiver you must be fast and agile. Strength is not usually as important but comes in handy when an opponent tries to tackle you.
 For example, do several 20-yard dashes in succession. Increase your distance to 25 or 30 yards (22.9 or 27.4 m) for several repetitions. You need to be able to run hard many times with only short breaks in between. The faster you move, the more likely it is you'll be able to evade the defense.
 Take jogs and maintain a breathing pattern to prevent cramps.
 Your coach or a teammate can demonstrate each to you.
 As a receiver you'll be catching the ball a lot, so practice catching as much as you can. A simple game of catch is good, but try to hook up with a good passer who can help you run routes and take good passes. A good passer will lead you with the ball (that is, he'll throw to where you will be, not to where you are.)









Develop "soft" hands. In other words, provide a "cushion" for the ball as it arrives. You don't want the ball to bounce off your hands.
Look at the ball until it's safely in your hands. Looking for an opponent before you have full possession of the ball often results in an incomplete pass.
 Practice every day. If you slack off, it's easy to lose your competitive edge.
 Also known as "fakes," these are designed to fool the opponent. Wide receivers are sometimes called on to appear to run a particular play but then suddenly run something else. In other words, you're called upon to be a good "actor."

