 The problem with difficult people is that their negativity can be infectious. Just as positive people spread their cheer to others, difficult people can cast a pall over a room when they walk in the door. If you're dealing with a difficult person you encounter often, and it can't be helped, do your best to avoid getting dragged into negative feelings.


Try to stay positive throughout the day. It's okay to vent, but resist the urge to talk about the situation too much. Don't let the negativity spread into other facets of your life. It can quickly get out of hand.Try not to hold a grudge against the difficult person. Remember that the person likely has a hidden burden to deal with that has nothing to do with you. Focus on what's good in your life and be glad you're not the difficult one.
 It's the antidote to spending time with someone who's difficult. Fill your time with loving, generous, cheerful people who bring out the best in you. Build up your energy reserves for the times when you have to be around the person who tends to drain you dry.
 It's not always possible to avoid difficult people, especially when they're your family members or coworkers. If the situation gets extremely negative or borderline abusive (like if you're being bullied), you need to avoid the person as much as possible. In fact, you might even need to cut them off entirely. Even though you might want to try to change the person, or you hope that things will get better some day, face reality and figure out if that's really possible.


Try setting a firm limit on how much time you spend with the person. For example, if your mom is extremely difficult, and she always cuts you down, you might need to limit the duration of your visits. Try setting a time limit of 1 hour per week. If even that much time is too taxing, cut back even more.
If the person is physically, verbally or emotionally abusing you, and this is a pattern that has happened again and again, you need to put your own physical mental safety first and stop seeing the person.

