 You can download Tinder for iPhone from the App Store, or for Android from the Google Play Store.
 It's an app with a white flame icon on it., This blue button is at the bottom of the screen.

You'll need the Facebook app and an active Facebook account to create a Tinder account.
 This will allow Tinder access to your Facebook information.

If your Facebook login information isn't saved on your device, you'll first enter your Facebook email address and password.
 This will turn on location services for Tinder.

For Tinder to work, you must leave location services on.
 Either tap I WANT TO BE NOTIFIED, or opt out by tapping NOT NOW. Once you do this, your Tinder profile will be created using your Facebook account information., You'll see an image in the middle of the page; this is a profile of another Tinder user nearby., These buttons allow you to interact with other people's profiles. From left to right, these buttons do the following:


Undo - Tapping this yellow arrow will undo your last swipe. You must purchase a Tinder Plus subscription to do this.

Dislike - Tap this red X icon to dislike a profile. You can also swipe left over a profile to perform this action.

Boost - This purple lightning bolt icon boosts your profile's visibility for thirty minutes. You get one free boost per month.

Like - The green, heart-shaped icon likes a profile, which allows you to match with them if they like you back. You can also swipe right over a profile to perform this action.

Super Like - Likes a profile and alerts the user that you've liked their profile. You have three free super-likes per month. You can also swipe up on a person's profile to perform this step.
 To do this, tap the speech bubble icon in the top-right corner of the screen. This will load any conversations you've had with your matches., While Tinder is first and foremost a dating app, tapping the switch at the top-center of the screen switches Tinder over to a more platonic mode., It's the person-shaped icon in the top-left corner of the screen. Doing so will open your profile, where you can set up your profile options., It's the gear-shaped icon on the profile screen. Doing so will open your Tinder settings., These settings affect your Tinder browsing and the kinds of profiles you will see.


Location (iPhone), Swiping in (Android): Change your current location.

Maximum Distance (iPhone), Search Distance (Android): Raise or lower the match-making search radius.

Gender (iPhone), Show me (Android): Select a gender you're interested in. Currently, Tinder only has options for Men, Women, and Men and Women.

Age Range (iPhone), Show Ages (Android): Raise or lower the maximum age you're interested in.
 You can edit your notifications settings, view the privacy policy, or log out of Tinder from this menu., It's at the top of the Settings page. This will take you back to your profile page., This option is to the bottom-right of your profile picture., These are at the top of the Edit Info page. You can do a couple of different things here:

Tap and drag a photo onto the large photo tile to replace your primary profile photo.
Tap x in the bottom-right corner of a photo to delete it from Tinder.
Tap + in the bottom-right corner of a photo box to upload a photo from your phone or from Facebook.
You can also slide the Smart Photos switch right to allow Tinder to choose a photo for you.
 You'll do this in the "About (Name)" field.

There is a 500 character limit for your description.
 There are several aspects you can edit here:


Current Work - Tap this to view different options for your current occupation.

School - Select a school from your Facebook profile, or select None.

My Anthem - Select a song from Spotify to set as your profile song.

I Am - Select your gender.
 This is at the top of the screen.

On iPhone, tap the down arrow icon in the top-right to return to your profile page.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will return you to the main Tinder page, where you can begin matching with others., You can also tap the heart-shaped button. This will indicate that you like the profile and would like to match with that person., You can also tap the X button. Doing so will prevent the profile from showing up in your Tinder feed., If you like someone and they like you back, you have a match; you'll receive a notification, and you can talk to the person in your messages., It's in the top-right corner of the screen., You'll find it on this page, though you can use the search bar at the top of the page to search specifically for a user., If you are initiating contact with the other person, make sure your first message is friendly and confident without being creepy.

Avoid simply saying "Hi"; instead write something like, "Hi, how's your day going?"
Try to stand out with your first message.
 It's easy to forget that you're talking to another human being through Tinder, so remember to remain positive, kind, and respectful while interacting with your match.