 Cats have highly sensitive hearing and smell so they’re aware of the world around them. Whether you’re doing nothing or in the middle of a project of conversation, pay attention to what’s going on around you. It’s a good practice for being safe but also being as observant as a cat.Reacting erratically and jumping at things that startle you is another way you can imitate cats.
If you hear a weird sound or smell something fishy, investigate it. Cats are curious and you should be too.
 Cats are generally cautious and sometimes standoffish with people at first. Don’t just be friends with everyone you meet right away, that’s acting more like a dog. Make people earn your trust and friendship. This way, you’ll have valuable friendships for life.
 Be picky with how much time you spend with people. Cats don’t always like to be showered with attention and therefore neither should you. Walk away from someone if you need some alone time. You can simply rejoin a conversation when you’re ready to be social again.Demand your own personal space. If you need to be alone, don’t let people bother you. Cats will let you know by hissing or growling if they’re tired of attention.
Being talkative will let people know you want to socialize, and refraining from talking will also alert people that you’re done with socializing, just like a cat.
 Once you’re close with someone, you can show them affection, especially physically. Cats like to massage people with their paws and rub their heads to mark their territory. You can give friends back rubs or nuzzle your significant other to show them that you like them.Only do these things to people you’re close with, or they might not understand what you’re doing.
 You don’t have to go as far as trapping mice and pests to leave on friends’ doorsteps, but giving gifts and providing fresh kills are how cats show affection. Dead mice are the equivalent of giving a small trinket to show your friend you’re thinking of them.Cats also hunt and leave their kill to provide food to their owners. You can take care of the people you like by feeding them, such as cooking full meals or sharing part of your lunch.
 Make little messes by knocking things off of counters, sit on people when they’re trying to work on something, or be nosy and poke around in cupboard and behind doors. Cats are adorable but can get in your way and be inconvenient. Have a little fun for example and block someone’s view of the television when they’re trying to watch something.


Don’t be obnoxious. If someone asks you to stop, respect their space and dial back the cat mimicking.

