 "Casual" as a mode of dress has a different meaning than is typically assumed, so don't show up wearing just anything. If a casual dress style is best suited for a certain production, you will still be expected to present a nice appearance because even though there may not be a formal dress code imposed, as an audience member you are agreeing to be part of a meticulously organized event. Shorts, t-shirts, tanktops and sandals will not fly here: think "dinner at slightly upscale restaurant," not "lazy evening after work.", Remember how your mother used to dress you for Easter Sunday or to go visit your relatives? Take cues from mom's casual style. Good choices for men are khakis, polos or button-down shirts and loafers or boat shoes. Women arguably have more options: a simple blouse and skirt will work just fine, or you might break out a sundress or knit sweater and tights depending on the weather.


No matter what you wear, make sure you are dressed for comfort. You will be sitting down for a couple of hours, so settle on garments that don't chafe and aren't too snug.
 There are many wonderful seasonally-exclusive pairings when it comes to dressing and accessorizing. Make use of them. Spring and summer is the time to work with lighter colors and fabrics like pastels, while fall and winter favor heavier materials and an intricate layered look. Cardigans, corduroy, dress boots and linen can all become components of a spruced-up seasonal style.The theater may get a little hot or chilly in certain climates. Bring a warm extra layer that you can shed if need be.
 Just because the event isn't a formal one doesn't mean you shouldn't go to the necessary lengths to make yourself presentable. Keep hair and clothing clean and arranged; tuck in loose shirt tails and don't wear skirts or dresses that fall above the thigh-line, or tops that expose too much cleavage. You'll be in a crowded theater right next to other audience members, so freshen up your deodorant. If perfume or cologne is desired, it should be applied lightly, as excessively strong fragrances are overpowering.Brushing your teeth, trimming your nails, wearing clean socks and washing your face and hands are also good hygienic habits to be in. It would be embarrassing to be a nuisance to other theatergoers because of the way you look or smell.

