 Legally changing your name is a serious decision, so you should make sure that you choose a name that you like enough to keep.


Before beginning the process of changing your name, practice signing it and have a few people close to you call you by that name, to make sure you like it.
You can usually change your first name, middle name, last name, or all of the above., You will not be able to change your name if your new name would imply "fraudulent intent" (i.e. that you are not trying to gain some benefit by misleading others about your identity).There are, however, several other reasons why you might be denied a name change, including any of the following:You are avoiding bankruptcy by pretending to be someone else
Your new name violates a trademark (e.g. changing your name to "Chuck E. Cheese" or "Adidas Batman")
The name uses numbers or symbols (except Roman numerals).
The name includes obscene words
If you are having trouble determining if your name change is legal, or need legal assistance with this process, hire an attorney. Legal self-help centers may also available to help with name changes, and legal fees may be waived if you demonstrate sufficient financial need. Search online to see what legal aid resources are available in your community.
 Most states require you to fill out a petition explaining your reasons for wanting to change your name. Go to the courthouse or your state's court website to obtain the proper forms and learn all the requirements in your jurisdiction.The petition will be submitted to a judge, so make sure it explains your reasoning completely and correctly.


For example, in California, you must fill out forms NC-100, NC-110, NC-120, and CM-010.Other states may have different requirements.For instance, in Florida, you must undergo fingerprinting and state and federal criminal background checks as well.If you are changing your name because of a divorce, contact your divorce lawyer. He or she may be able to help you expedite the process, since changing a name for this reason is quite common. Sometimes it can even be included in the divorce decree.If you are an immigrant, ex-convict, or attorney, you may need an affidavit of service of notification to authorities in addition to your petition. This shows that any relevant authorities have been alerted to your proposed name change.For example, attorneys must be licensed to practice law under their legal names, so if an attorney changes his or her name, that license must reflect the change.
 Visit your local civil court in person to file the petition with a clerk, or file by mail if that is allowed in your state. Bring two copies of each form. The clerk will stamp both with a “Filed” stamp and return one copy to you for your records.The clerk will give you a court date, which you must attend.


Check your local court's website to determine if the court will accept your petition by mail or in person only.
In some jurisdictions, you will need to have your petition notarized or signed by a court clerk before filing.Once you have finished filling out your petition, take it back to the courthouse to have it notarized or signed. You can also have it notarized at a bank or other notary public.
 Most states have filing fees for the filing of a petition. For example, in California, the fee is approximately $435, and $401 in Florida., Some states require that you publish your new name for a number of weeks in approved general circulation newspapers.This gives any member of the public a chance to object to your name change.


The specific amount of time for which you must publish the notice varies by state. In California, applicants must publish for four consecutive weeks, whereas New Mexico only requires two consecutive weeks.Some states may have no publication requirement.
Some states allow you to simply post your change of name in a public place, such as a designated bulletin board at the courthouse.
 Most name-change hearings are fairly straightforward. If the judge asks you any questions about your reasons for changing your name, answer clearly and honestly. If you live in a state with a publication requirement, bring copies of the publication to prove you have met the requirement.In some states you will be expected to present a prepared testimony explaining your name change.Arrive at your hearing 15 to 20 minutes early.If you are late, the court may refuse to hear your petition.
If the judge denies your request, get a copy of the court order denying your request and try again.
If the judge approves your request, you will be granted a name change court order.
 Once you have received a court order changing your name, your next step will be to obtain a new Social Security card, which will require you to fill out a form and either deliver it to a Social Security Administration office or mail it in with the required documents.Download and complete the application for a new Social Security card, available online.

Gather your paperwork together. You will need your court order, birth certificate, photo ID (driver's license, passport, or state ID card) and a completed application for a new Social Security card.Submit your documents to the Social Security Administration. You can make an appointment to change your name in person, or you can mail in the appropriate documents. All original copies will be mailed back to you with a receipt.You can find the address for the Social Security office nearest you via a locator on the Social Security Administration website.Your new card should arrive within 10 business days from the date on your receipt., Visit your local DMV with your new Social Security card and your old driver's license or ID card to receive a new ID card., Here is a short list of what you might consider:Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases or mortgages
Car title
Voter registration
Medical offices
Post office boxes
Passport

, Start introducing yourself with your new last name, signing checks and other documents with your new last name, and politely asking people to use it when they address you.

