 People are as varied as grains of sand on the beach, but no matter what your current level of physical health, one maxim remains true: don't overexert your body on a regular basis. Whether you run triathlons or are just now starting to take a daily walk, the fact is that if you injure your muscles through overexertion, you'll have to take a break from exercising those muscles while they heal.;
, Though at first glance this seems to contradict the above point, the truth is, exercise won't do you very much good if you don't continue to test and push your boundaries. The trick is to do it safely and in a controlled manner. If you ran two miles yesterday and felt worn out later, don't try to run five miles today. Instead, find a level of exertion that leaves you feeling worked and a bit stiff the next day, and then try to slightly add on to the intensity of that level every couple of weeks.
 The more often you can find time for exercise, the better, generally speaking. Authorities recommend exercise seven days a week, but even three days a week is better than one. Whatever time you can set aside, do so.
 The more parts of your body receive exercise, the more you'll notice exercises' positive effects on your weight, muscle tone, mood, stress levels, sleeping patterns, and overall sense of well-being. As always, any exercise is good exercise, but some is better than others. Lifting free weights, for example, works more muscle groups than using targeted weightlifting machines. Try to mix in some exercise for every part of your body, if you can.
 Maintaining the energy you need to exercise starts with getting enough sleep, and eating a balanced diet. You don't have to overhaul every aspect of your life just to start exercising, but if you want to feel energized, you'll need to at least make sure you get some good sleep every night and enough nutrients to not run your body ragged.


For example, your body processes lean proteins into energy better than fats, and it gets more benefits out of the vitamins in vegetables than in pills, since they're easier to break down and contain more complex compounds.

