 These could be signs of the infection or other problems, but they are a potential warning.Increased occurrences of nausea and/or diarrhea could be symptoms of dwarf tapeworm infection.
You may also experience abdominal pain along with the upset stomach.
The severity of your symptoms could vary greatly.
Duration of these symptoms could be from a few days to intermittently over years.;
, This too can be a sign of the tapeworm infection or other problems.As this is not as an immediate symptom as nausea or diarrhea, you may want to take a few days to make sure this is occurring. Weight loss is rarely an occurrence with dwarf tapeworm infection.See if you are turning away even your favorite foods.
There is a risk of vitamin deficiency and body chemistry imbalance with this, so consult your doctor if it persists.
 While you cannot feel the worm inside you, the subsequent infection can induce pain..


If the pain is intense, see a doctor immediately in case it is a symptom of something else.
This pain could vary in intensity from and duration from immediately of a few days to on and off for years depending on the persistence of infection. If you can identify the pain as acute (sharp and intense) and/or chronic (frequent occurrence)--this may help your doctor's diagnosis.The pain's location may not situate itself in any one location in the abdominal area.
Similar to the other conditions, it could be a symptom of the tapeworm infection, or other problems.
 This could be a sign of localized infection and irritation and it is most common in young children.The irritation could also vary in intensity and duration depending on the timeline of the infection.
A rash or physical blemish is not typically associated with this irritation, though you may risk inflicting such harm if you scratch too much.
 This could be a sign of a more severe infection and this symptom is also seen in young children more often.If you feel the headache in conjunction with the other symptoms, this too could be signs of other illness--but the tapeworm infection remains a possibility.
The headache's intensity and duration may vary greatly depending on the persistence of the infection.
There are ways to classify your pain level, if it's sharp and severe (acute) or frequent (chronic). This can be useful to your doctor for diagnosis., Problems sleeping can be signs of a more severe infection..


Similar to loss of appetite, you should see if this pattern holds up over a few days to determine if it's an actual symptom of your problem.
Sleep loss caused by an associated problem is called "secondary insomnia" (as opposed to ordinary sleep loss or "primary insomnia").
As with pain problems, this can be acute (brief intense bouts) and/or chronic (frequently occurring). Let your doctor know how you are being affected.
Besides waking up at night, you might experience sleepiness during the day, fatigue (tiredness), irritability (bad mood), and problems concentrating/memory.
Any repeated disruption to your normal sleeping period can be a symptom of insomnia, but determining the cause may be up to your doctor and you.

