 It should be quiet and well-lit, with a clean, uncluttered desk. When you’re ready to study French, go to your study space and begin learning.
 Study in both long and short sessions throughout the day. When you have ten or fifteen minutes free during lunch or when traveling on the bus, you should break out your French books and study materials, or pop some earbuds in and listen to some French conversation. Then, when you have time after or before work, sit for at least an hour and practice French intensively in your designated study space.
 If you hear or read a word you’re unfamiliar with, you can look it up to learn what it means with your dictionary. If you don’t know a certain word in French, you can look it up in English to get its French translation.


When you look up new words, or if you have words that give you trouble, write them in your study journal and repeat them out loud at least three times.
Look up words that you can relate to your own life. For instance, if you’re a computer programmer, look up the words necessary to introduce yourself and say, “I’m a computer programmer.”Don’t check the dictionary constantly. Doing so may hamper your learning process. Use the dictionary only when you need to check the meaning of a certain word or words. Focus instead on getting the overall meaning of things, and the general phrasing of sentences, rather than on the meaning of individual words.
Furthermore, it's more productive to try and guess at the meaning of words you don't know before looking them up in a dictionary.
 These books are useful tools to help you learn key phrases and practice sentence miming.
 The textbook will have elements of the phrasebook, but it will also clarify pronunciation, grammar, and provide greater depth than the phrase book will. The best textbooks will include a CD with audio on it to help familiarize you with conversational French and provide opportunities for speaking practice. Check your local bookstore for French-language texbooks.


While a deep understanding of French grammar is not necessary to learn the language quickly, understanding some basic rules regarding subject, object, and verb placement might be useful.
 There are many apps and online programs available that turn learning French into a fun game. For instance, Babbel and Duolingo are two popular websites that allow you to learn French (among other languages) at your own pace and at your own level. Brief lessons followed by quizzes on the material will let you set your own pace and learn as quickly as you want.


There are also some more expensive programs available like Rosetta Stone that serve the same function as the online learning tools and apps.

