 Even if you're just heading out for a day hike you should know what the proper waste disposal guidelines are for the area you're going to be in. You can usually check this with the park service of whatever area you'll be in.Certain terrain requires that you pack out your waste. This is especially true of areas that are sensitive to water pollution like river canyons. You can buy biodegradable containment pouches with which to remove your waste.;
, You will need to be at least 200 feet (61.0 m) from a body of water, trail, or campsite. This is to avoid water contamination, spread of disease, an unsightly mess, as well as to avoid unwanted attention from animals.Try to find a place that isn't too shady, as sunlight will help hasten the decomposition process of your waste. If you're trying to get the turd out you can just pull it out with the thumb and fore finger.
 You can use a rock or a spade (if you brought one) to dig a hole at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) deep and 8 inches (20.3 cm) across. This is often called a "cat hole" and it needs to be so deep to help cover your waste and avoid possible contamination, etc. Make sure that you follow this rule.
 Some people prefer to find a couple of large rocks or a log to rest their butt against when they are going to the bathroom outdoors, but unless you have a physical disability there's really no reason not to squat.


Remember, folks who have to squat down to pee, hold your jeans or trousers away from yourself so that you don't pee on them.
 You can bring toilet paper or baby wipes with you and use those, although you'll need to put them in a plastic baggy afterwards and carry them out with you. Otherwise you can wipe with leaves, snow, a smooth river stone, whatever works best for you.


Make sure that you know the poisonous plants or trees in the area where you're hiking, otherwise you might accidentally grab something like poison oak and then you'll be very sorry.
 When you're finished you'll want to make sure that you cover the hole and your business with soil, leaves, and twigs all the way to the top. This way it won't attract the attention of any inquisitive animals and won't spread contamination or be an unsightly mess.
 You will want to make sure that you didn't get any contaminate on your hands, so make sure to bring along some hand sanitizer, or biodegradable soap to clean them.The reason you need to use biodegradable soap is that regular soap can cause algae blooms in water sources, which is really bad for them., Even there you'll want to make sure that you're away from a trail, or water, or where you've set up a campsite. It's best to find an area with exposed rocks and direct sunlight. You'll be doing something that backpackers call "smearing".
 Again, sunlight on your waste will help make it decompose more quickly and avoid attracting any sort of trouble. You will do your business on this flat rock.
 You will use this to help make sure that you can use it to smear your waste across the first rock.
 As gross as it is, this is the best way to make sure that you don't damage other hikers or the environment. The waste will dry in the sun, and flake off when wind comes up. It's the best option for getting rid of it, when you can't bury it.
 You can use a smooth rock, snow, or toilet paper that you've brought along. If you're using the latter, you will need to make sure that you pack it out with you in a plastic baggy. Otherwise you'll be putting something in the ecosystem that doesn't belong there.

