 Salicylic acid shampoos can help your scalp psoriasis by helping to remove the excess skin and scales of scalp psoriasis. The salicylic acid shampoo may cause the skin on your scalp to swell, then soften and peel off.
 There are certain situations where you should not use salicylic acid shampoos. These are situations where salicylic acid may cause you harm. Talk to your doctor before using salicylic acid if:


You are pregnant, nursing, or may become pregnant
You are taking any other medications for psoriasis
You are taking any herbs, supplements, non-prescription medicines, unless you have been cleared by a doctor
You have any open sores or cuts on your scalp
You are allergic to any of the ingredients
You have any kidney or liver issues, diabetes, a skin irritation, skin infection, or poor blood circulation
You have a history of Reye syndrome
If you are under the age of 18
If you are on ammonium sulfate, heparin/warfarin, steroids, methotrexate, aspirin, or sulfonylureas, There are two different types of salicylic acid shampoos you can use. The first is over the counter shampoo. To use this, apply the shampoo to a dry scalp. Starting with five minutes, let the shampoo sit on your hair and scalp. Then rinse your hair thoroughly and wash your hair with non-medicated shampoo and conditioner.


You can increase the leave in time for this shampoo up to one hour at a time. Just gradually increase the time in small increments.
There are some other over the counter products that have lower amounts of salicylic acid as well as lactic acid, urea, or phenol that you can also try if the straight salicylic shampoo is too much for your mild psoriasis.
Follow the instructions on the back of the bottle to know how often to use this shampoo. It will depend on the strength of the concentration of the salicylic acid in your shampoo., Once you have washed your hair with over the counter salicylic shampoo, you can use any additional non-medicated shampoo on your hair. This will help reduce any residual flaking on your scalp and help hydrate your hair.Follow the washing instructions for your normal shampoo like you always do.
 Medicated salicylic shampoo will be prescribed by your doctor. To start, wet your hair and scalp. Apply the shampoo to your hair using the applicator that comes with it. Massage the shampoo into your scalp. Next, rinse the shampoo thoroughly from your hair.


Repeat this treatment daily unless you are otherwise directed by your doctor.
Don't wash your hair with other shampoo after this treatment.