 Architecture involves more than an aptitude for drawing or basic carpentry. Architects are involved in each phase of the process of creating a new structure, from conceiving the idea for the structure's design to communicating the plans to clients to overseeing the construction process and ensuring the final structure is satisfactory. Architects have the following talents and skills:


They are creative. Architects come up with original ideas for creating well-designed structures that complement their surroundings and suit their functional purpose. Every seemingly simple structure we encounter was dreamed up by an architect aiming for the sweet spot of beauty and functionality.
They are science-minded. Architecture is both an art and a science. In addition to designing buildings with elegance and beauty in mind, architects must understand how the different components of a building work together to create a sturdy, safe environment. An understanding of math and physics is essential.
They are good communicators. Architects must effectively share their vision for a structure with the client who will be constructing it. They are excellent at giving presentations, describing their ideas clearly and ensuring client satisfaction.;
, Some architects work for firms and see projects through from conception to completion. Others use their talents and skills in different parts of the industry.


Landscape architects have a background in plant sciences as well as architecture, and focus on how spaces outside buildings play a complementary role.
Some architects focus only on design, making sure the plans for a building follow building codes and meet the expectations of the client.
Construction firms often hire architects as project managers who oversee the construction of structures.
Architects may focus on certain types of buildings, such as high-security facilities, hospitals, or schools. They may also work on restoration of old buildings.
 As you're deciding whether you want to become an architect, talk with licensed professionals to get a sense of what it takes to have a career in architecture.


Contact architecture firms in your area and ask if you can set up informational interviews. Ask for architecture program recommendations and other advice.
Find a part-time job or internship at an architecture firm to get an even better sense of what the field is like.

