 It can be very dangerous to put anything in your ear canal — even something as seemingly harmless as olive oil or garlic — unless a doctor has examined your ear canal and made sure there is no damage. Some risks include permanently damaging your hearing if the membrane is ruptured, likelihood of changing the local micro-biome, and possibility of causing additional inflammation. There are some natural remedies that may help to relieve ear pain, but as with any kind of complementary medicine, you should check with your doctor first.Keep in mind that ear oils should not be used on a ruptured eardrum — which you likely will be unable to identify without seeing a doctor first. Ear oils can also make it harder for your doctor to examine your ear.Some natural remedies may end up causing irritation of the canal and therefore more pain/discomfort.
 Olive oil may help to relieve ear pain and treat an ear infection. Try putting a few drops of olive oil into your ear using a medicine dropper. Repeat the dosage a few times per day. If you do not have an ear dropper, then you can soak a cotton ball in some olive oil, squeeze out the excess oil, and then place the cotton ball into your ear. You can also infuse olive oil with different herbs to make this treatment more effective.Garlic. Garlic has antifungal properties.Mince a few cloves of garlic and allow it to sit in a tablespoon of olive oil for about 15 minutes. Then, pour the oil through a sieve to strain it before using.

Ginger. Ginger has pain relieving properties.Mince about a teaspoon of fresh ginger and allow it to sit in a tablespoon of olive oil for about 15 minutes. Then, pour the oil through a sieve to strain out the ginger pieces before using.
 Applying an onion compress to your ear may also help to relieve ear pain caused by an ear infection.To make an onion compress, chop up a half of an onion and then fry it in some olive oil until the onion is soft. Then remove the onion from the heat and allow it to cool down to room temperature.
When the onion is cool, place the onion in a cheese cloth or thin cotton towel. Secure the cloth or towel so that the onion is gathered in one spot and so that it will not fall out.
Then, place the onion compress over your ear for about 10-15 minutes and allow the juices from the onion to run into your ear., Honey may also help to treat ear pain when used as an ear drop. Try using an ear dropper to put a few drops of honey into your ear a few times per day., If you are not comfortable creating your own ear oil or using kitchen items as natural ear drops, then you may want to consider purchasing a commercially produced natural ear oil. You can buy products that are already infused with herbs and that may help relieve your ear pain.