 Before you depart for the airport, prepare for the possibility of a delay and make sure to pack some things to keep you busy and comfortable should the inevitable happen. For example, a tablet computer, a book, a portable music player, a handheld games console, or maybe a puzzle book. A watch is also a must. Children can become extremely impatient waiting around, keep them amused and entertained with a coloring book, or possibly a story book and don't forget their favourite toy!;
, Being able to freshen up when trapped in a crowded airport can really make a difference and lift your mood. Be certain to carry your cell phone charger, it's always important to keep your phone charged up and ready to go. You may want to have a separate small backpack or purse to keep things that you can easily take out in the airport.
 In many cases, other people stuck in the airport are going to be facing more difficult challenges than you are. Offer to hold a baby, or play a game with a child of a bewildered mum. Get some food for a frail woman who might have trouble walking down the long corridor. Offer to let someone use your cellphone or your laptop to make contact with worried relatives or friends. Helping others will allow you to stop obsessing over your own miserable situation and will make the time go a little bit faster.
 You can just stare out the large airport windows and watch planes taxi and take off. You can even bring a camera and take pictures.
 There will be lots to see in the airport, so why not go have a wander round? A nice long walk can pass as much time as you need. You may spot some interesting sights on the way as well. For example, in some airports you can find out about aircraft from the past, such as the world famous Concorde.
 There are thousands of magazines and books for sale at most airports. This is a good time to open your mind and learn something new.
 Most airport shops will carry puzzle books. Anything from word search to sudoku can keep you pleasantly amused for quite a while, as well as exercising your mind.
 Your portable media player can be a life saver. Play a game, listen to music, or watch a video. The only requirement is a fresh charging and plenty of data.
 Airports can be a decent place to find something to eat, and drink. There will be a wide variety of dishes available, from a traditional meal to a quick takeaway. You are also likely to find some more exotic foods available, so why not be daring and give them a try? Or, if you enjoy the atmosphere of a pub, you can sit down and relax with a meal and drink. For the people who need a drink, there will be plenty of places to find one. If you'd like to get a morning energy buzz at any time of day, see if they airport has a food location that serves coffee, such as Dunkin Donuts. Vending machines and dedicated bars are the best place to buy. However, prepared to spend quite a bit more than you normally would for any given dish.
 Most airports have at least one shop, but some major, international ones have multiple gift shops. Shopping inside an airport can also make you more relaxed for your flight. You can buy small little gifts for family and friends, or buy something for yourself.
 Internet is usually available in all airports, although it can come at a heavy price, although some airports, such as the Boston Logan International Airport will offer it for free. So, if you have some money, the Internet can make the time fly by. Why not check your emails, or play some games? You could even contribute to wikiHow! If you have children, allow them to play some games as well, as this will keep them entertained for a little while longer, and keep them relaxed before the flight., Some international airports now offer massages, manicures, pedicures, and other treats. For a decent price you will be able to feel fresh and relaxed for your flight. Another treat is to try to buy yourself a place in an airport lounge, where you can spend your time doing things you enjoy, such as playing snooker, having a drink at a bar, or going for a dip in a jacuzzi. Although it can be pricey, if you can afford it, it will make your day.
 Talking is also another great time killer. Thousands of people use an airport every day, so you are definitely going to find someone to start a conversation with. If you are nervous about this, simply asking, "Where are you flying to?" will start a great conversation. Sometimes you can meet great people at airports. It is always handy to have friends in another part of the country, or even the world.
 Going through the travel plan with the rest of your party will not only pass time, but reassure everyone that everything is going smoothly, and that you are all going to have a great time. This can also start conversations with other people, who may join in your conversation.
 If you are in the airport because you have just completed a vacation, and maybe you met interesting people or took a tour of some interesting facilities or visited a beautiful beach. You probably learned a lot and have many details fresh in your mind. Why not use the opportunity to make some detailed notes about your experiences? You will never remember them as clearly as you do right now. If you are with some of your traveling companions, this airport downtime will present you with a nice opportunity to talk with them about the details of the trip as you are writing. When you get home you can add your notes to a journal, or a scrapbook, or perhaps blog about them. But more importantly, using your airport time to write will help you decompress or debrief about your trip.
 Take along a small knitting, crocheting, or other needlework project. Have a photocopy of the pattern, or use a pattern that is easily memorized. Most airlines allow knitting needles and crochet hooks on their planes. Teach your child to knit, crochet, embroider, or make other simple yarn projects.
 Take a deck of cards to the airport and play poker or other card games with your fellow friends or passengers (Always works).
