 This most often occurs in young dogs with elbow dysplasia. When dogs stand, sit, or lay down after spending time in one position, they may make noises or strain to shift positions. Some dogs favor one or the other side, and others seem to plop down to avoid long amounts of pressure on their joints. Watch as your dog’s position changes, and make note of struggling or odd behavior., Dogs with elbow dysplasia may begin to run and walk differently. This can be a limp or simply leaning more to one side than the other. If you notice a change in your dog’s walk, this can be indicative of elbow dysplasia., If you notice your dog is sleeping more often, doesn’t want to play as much, or seems to take breaks more frequently on walks, this can be caused by a number of health concerns, but combined with the other warning signs of elbow dysplasia, this may be indicative of joint health concerns., You many notice your dog whining, groaning, panting, or even growling when weight is put on joints. Pay specific attention to your dog as it stands up and lays down as transferring weight on the elbows may be especially uncomfortable. If your dog regularly makes these noises, this may be a sign of elbow dysplasia., In most cases, one or both joints will rotate in towards the dog’s body. You may not be able to recognize this change, but a veterinarian will notice it right away. However, it’s important to take your dog to the vet if you do see this shift in position, even if your dog isn’t limping or having other difficulties. Typically, dog’s elbows point back, toward the tail. Dogs with elbow dysplasia may begin to show signs of the elbows leaning in towards the body., Elbow dysplasia is the leading cause of front leg immobility, especially in very young dogs. If you notice your dog is unable to bend or move one or both front limbs, this is a significant indicator that the dog is suffering from elbow dysplasia. You should visit the vet right away., Your pet’s doctor will visually examine the front legs, move the limbs to see if they are capable of a full range of motion, and capture x-rays. Some dogs present signs of dysplasia in x-rays even without any symptoms or resulting effects. However, if you’ve noticed your dog limping or showing other signs of pain or discomfort, the next step will be treatment planning and ongoing care in partnership with your vet.