 Look at the front pattern piece and identify the stitching line along the Armhole opening.


The stitching line is the dotted line indicating where you will actually make your stitches. Do not measure along the outer perimeter of the Armhole since that measurement would not accurately reflect the dimensions of the eventual hole.
If you are drafting the pattern from scratch instead of working with a commercial pattern or previously made pattern, you will need to sketch the stitching line in place. Use a French curve or curved ruler to make sure that the seam allowances are the same all along the Armhole.
 Place the starting (zero) end of the tape measure at the top of the Armhole stitching line, just beneath the seam allowance. Extend the tape down along the curve until you reach the bottom seam allowance.You should not include the seam allowances in your measurement since they have no impact on the size of the actual opening.
The tape measure will need to stand on its side as you work with it. Make sure that the tape follows the stitching line precisely.
 Locate the stitching line on the back pattern piece. Place the starting end of the tape measure at the top of the Armhole stitching line, then wind it down the curve until it reaches the bottom.


As with the front pattern piece, you should not include the seam allowances in your measurement. Doing so would skew the results.
 Add the front Armhole measurement to the back Armhole measurement. The sum of the two will indicate the dimensions of the total Armhole measurement.


The back Armhole measurement might be larger than the front Armhole measurement by 1/2 inch to 5/8 inch (1.25 to 1.6 cm).If the measurements are off by more than this amount, however, the balance is off.
Also note that the back Armhole measurement should not be smaller than the front Armhole.
 The total Armhole measurement should be altered as needed to allow for ease of movement in the final piece.


The material can make a difference. If you're working with a pattern drafted to woven fabrics but choose to work with a knit fabric, shorten the ease by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). If you are working with a knit pattern but want to convert it for use with woven fabrics, lengthen the ease by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
If you took your Armhole measurement and added some slack into the measurement already, you do not need to add in extra ease here.
 If the Armhole on the pattern is too large or too small, you may need to adjust it before cutting and sewing your material.


The simplest way to do this is to make the curve of the Armhole deeper or more shallow. The curve should be deeper if you need the Armhole to be bigger. It should be more shallow if you need the hole to be smaller.
Do not alter the shoulder or side seams to change the Armhole measurement.
Keep in mind that no matter what you do, the base of the Armhole from the front pattern piece must meet with the base of the Armhole from the back pattern piece. The same applies to the top points of the Armhole.
When you alter the Armhole size of a pattern, you will also need to alter the shoulder opening of any sleeve you plan to attach so that the two measurements will match.

