 With a kind approach, that person will feel you are approachable and may come to like you or help you out. Being friends with someone like this can seem annoying and stupid, but they could help you:


Improve at work/school
Do things you don't want to (like an intern; the special word that means a person who does everything you don't want to...)
Become more sociable, reliable and charismatic
Impress bosses, teachers and upperclassmen.;
, This sounds like the simplest and easiest step - but it could in fact be the hardest. Start the conversation coolly, calmly, casually and friendly. If things really don't work out - at least they'll know your name. To start a conversation, you should first try to ask them about their likes, dislikes, family, friends, pastimes, pets, job, alma mater (school, college or education) and any significant others. But beware: if the subject becomes annoyed, uncomfortable or offended - drop it and apologize. Not only will making this person angry ruin any chance of friendship, but they could talk about you in a bad way to other coworkers/teachers/classmates.
 Make eye contact, say hello every time you see that person and act as positively and as friendly as you can. But, saying this, don't come on too strong - especially to people who are shy and may not like to have attention directed at themselves. The more you can learn about this person, the more they will be inclined to help you out and say kind words about you.
 This is about being kind. Would you like a new friend to get you a coffee in the morning? Or take notes from school while you're sick? Try to be as helpful and compassionate as possible.
 If this person is really boring and uninteresting the only thing you have to do is 'look' interested. Nod and smile, make small noises like "Ah!","Oh!" and "I see..." to make it sound like your interested. Have a little input, too. Try saying "That's great to hear!", "I never knew that", "You seem really into that stuff. It's really admirable/", and "I didn't even know that existed!". But again, beware! Notice in none of the examples you don't say "That's cool", "I'd be interested in trying that" or anything similar. If you do this, they will try to talk to you about it more - and at worst, ask if you want to join them or learn more about it. Be careful not to lie, too. Don't say you've done something you haven't, don't say you know anyone you don't. White lies may be acceptable, but misleading a person is a big mistake!

, Embarrassing for you? Yes. Nice to hear from someone? Yes. Be empathetic - put yourself in that persons shoes.
 Now that you're friends you have two options: actually be good friends with this person or keep them as an acquaintance/work friend. Still say hello occasionally and help them out - but not as much. If you remove yourself completely it will just ruin everything you have worked for and could reverse the good you have done.
 Reap in your earned rewards and the rest is up to you! Good luck!

