 Locate the app’s icon on the home screen or Springboard of your device. It’s the icon with the orange flame. Tap to open.;
, If you logged out of your last Tinder session, or if you’re using Tinder for the first time, you will be asked to “Sign in with Facebook.” To do this, simply tap the “Log In with Facebook” button you see on the app’s welcome screen and your phone’s Facebook application will open, connecting your account to Tinder.


If you didn’t log out, proceed to the “Editing Your Tinder Profile.”

, This will open the app’s Menu panel.
 You will be directed to your profile page.
 Now you can start editing your profile page.
 Tap the largest square tile with an addition icon you’ll see on the Edit Profile screen, and a list of your Facebook photos will be displayed (remember that you’ve used your Facebook account to start using Tinder, so your Facebook photos can be accessed through here as well).


Tap the photo you want to add to select it, and press the “Save” button on the app screen to use it as your Tinder profile’s display picture.
 To help people know you better, you can add some additional information about yourself as well on your Tinder profile. To do this, tap the “About You” field at the bottom of the Edit Profile screen and start typing any details about yourself that you like to tell people about.


Once you’re done, press the “Back” button on the top left-hand corner of the screen to save all the changes you’ve made on your profile.
 This will open the app’s Menu panel.
 Setting Tinder’s proximity settings allows you to meet people of your desired demography.
 You have the choice whether or not people will see your profile on Tinder. Simply put a checkmark on the “Discovery” option you see on the Discovery Preference screen to enable or disable this feature.


Note that you can still view other people’s Tinder profile even if this option is disabled.
 If you only want to meet a specific gender of people on Tinder, just put a checkmark on the sexual orientation of your choice (male or female) on the settings screen. Tinder will only show people of that gender to you.
 If you want to meet people within a specific distance from your location, adjust the “Search Distance” scroll bar to your desired range. You can choose from a distance between 1 and 100 miles.
 If you only want to see people of a certain age, simply adjust the “Show Ages” scroll bar to your desired age gap. You can set the bar between ages 18 (being the youngest) to any age above 55 years old.
 The button is on the top left-hand corner of the screen. This will save all the changes you’ve made on the Discovery Preference.

