 If you're going to do bear crawls, you need plenty of room to move around in all directions. You don't want to run into somebody or put yourself in danger with possible obstacles.Bear crawls are a good exercise to do outdoors, where space typically will be at less of a premium than it would be in a crowded gym.
Think about how far you want to crawl, and in what direction. You may want to use a cone or other marker to keep your place.
If there's a school near you that has a track or football field that's not in use, do your bear crawls there. You have ready-made markers to keep your distance.;
, To start the bear crawl, get into a push-up or plank position. Start on your knees with your hands under your shoulders, palm down on the floor. Extend your arms to raise your upper body over the ground.You want your fingers pointed out, with your hands slightly further apart than shoulder width.
If you're a beginner, you may want to do bear crawls on your knees to start. This exercise is not only a little easier, but also helps ensure you keep your back flat and straight while crawling.
To do the full bear crawl, get on your toes with your legs straight out behind you. Your feet should be slightly wider than shoulder width.
Your hips should be raised slightly relative to how they would be if you were in plank position, when you would strive to make your body a straight line from head to heel.
Your back should be flat and straight, and your legs should be straight as well. Squeeze your glutes to help you maintain the correct position.
 To do a bear crawl, you simply walk forward on your hands and feet, alternating each side just as if you were walking or crawling normally. The difference – and what makes this a demanding exercise for your core – is the position of your body.Your back should always be a straight line from your shoulders to your hips, and should remain in a neutral position throughout the exercise.
Tighten the space in your midsection so that your ribs are tucked towards your hips and your shoulders are pinned.
When you crawl, stay straight. Don't allow your hips, pelvis, ribs or spine to rotate or collapse.
 When you start doing bear crawls, go for a shorter distance so you can focus on maintaining your form. As you get better, you can go for a longer distance.Your steps should be relatively short and controlled. Don't extend your arms or legs out further than you can move with stability.
Breathe in through your nose deeply, then out through your mouth as you complete this exercise. You should breathe in a normal rhythm without holding your breath at any point.
Only go as far as you can while still maintaining perfect form and control over your movements. If you feel yourself falling out of correct position, stop. Doing bear crawls incorrectly can put you in serious risk of injuring your back or shoulders.
 If you're adding the bear crawl to a conditioning routine, make sure you take a break for 30 seconds to a minute between each crawl in your routine, or before moving on to another exercise.During your rest periods, make sure you're breathing deeply – in through your nose and out through your mouth.
Avoid moving from one exercise to another without stopping unless you're working closely with a trainer who can monitor your form. This is an easy way to start getting sloppy and put yourself at risk for injury.

