 While you don't need to use anything other than your eyes, using binoculars will make it significantly easier for you as a beginner, and binoculars will give you a wider viewing zone than a telescope, which is important for a beginner. Also, choose a cloud-free night, and if you live where the stars are never seen, you'll need to go somewhere else.;
, You need to look for Pegasus, Cassiopeia and Andromeda. Pegasus was the flying horse in Greek mythology, and the end star of Andromeda goes into making the Square of Pegasus; it's easy to find because it's one of the largest geometrical shapes in the night sky.Cassiopeia has a W or M shape which is easy to see and two of its end stars can be used as pointers to the constellation Andromeda.Andromeda was a princess who was rescued from a monster by Perseus in Greek mythology.The chart featured here shows the night sky for 35°N and is set for the 1st of December at 8:00 pm local, but can be used for later in the evening before that date and earlier after.
 Pegasus is one of the easier to locate of the three, as it looks like a giant rectangle; this is the Great Square of Pegasus. Cassiopeia is even easier to locate, looking like a giant "M" or "W". Andromeda lies between them.
, Keep in mind that mu Andromedae is dimmer than Mirach.
 You'll notice an oval of faint light. This is the Andromeda Galaxy.
 A typical 20cm (8 inch) reflector telescope will enable you to see 1,000 times further than the Andromeda Galaxy,so you should get a great view with a standard telescope. When using a telescope, and especially in light-polluted skies, also try finding Cassiopeia, then using the "M" of Cassiopeia to point toward Mirach. After positioning Mirach in the telescope, move toward Cassiopeia to find the dimmer star, then more in that direction until you come across two fainter stars and a fuzzy object that forms a triangle with these two stars. This is the galaxy.


If you look carefully in binoculars or a telescope, you may find two faint fuzzy spots beside it. One of them, M32, is smaller in size and closer to the actual galaxy core. The other, NGC 205, is more elusive, larger in size, and farther from the actual galaxy. Both are companion galaxies to Andromeda.
You will probably be able to find it if you use a GOTO or computerised telescope. If you use an equatorial and know how to use setting circles, the Galaxy is at RA 00h43m, DEC +41deg16' .
If you're already familiar with using a telescope, you will be aware that its narrower field of vision than binoculars can make the targeting more precise and consequently harder. Thus, if you are a novice in using telescopes, leave this step until you're more confident.

