 The genetics of the seeds you choose is important. They should come from a background of large-to-giant-size pumpkins. You can either:


Contact a pumpkin growing association for seeds. Pumpkin associations can be found on the internet.






Purchase seeds from a farmer that raises giant competition pumpkins. Top quality pumpkin seeds with good genetics can actually cost up to $50 each.
 If you live in a place that could potentially get frost in late April or May, you should start by planting your seeds in pots and keeping them indoors. If you think your pumpkins will be safe from frost, plant your seeds outside. Keep in mind that the seeds that sprout the fastest will generally grow the strongest pumpkins.Germinating your seeds inside: Plant your seeds in peat pots that have four to six inches of soil in each pot. Plant the seeds one inch deep in the soil that is moist and keep the pots at around 80 degrees Fahrenheit (26 degrees Celsius). Some people use a greenhouse effect while others find setting them on top of the refrigerator works well. You should begin to see sprouts within three to five days.






Germinating seeds outdoors: Before planting the seeds, soak them in warm water for four hours. Create a two-foot circle in the soil and remove the top inch of soil. Plant five seeds in the circle and cover them back up with the one inch of dirt. If possible, you can create a greenhouse over where you intend to plants the seeds and begin warming the soil several weeks in advance and several weeks after the sprouts have come up.
 Only do this if you have chosen to germinate your seeds inside. Transplant your sprouts when you see the first true leaves appear (they will be green and full looking.)Build up mounds of soil that are roughly two-foot circles (they should be about the size of a pitcher’s mound.) Plant one sprout in each mound. Keep each mound approximately 20 feet (6.1 m) apart. If possible, place a small greenhouse on top of each mound. Doing this will keep your sprouts warm and healthy.






Remove the tent or mini greenhouse on hot days so that the plants do not overheat.
 After a few weeks of growth, examine the pumpkin plant. Select the strongest looking vine in the group. Remove all others by clipping off the vines.