 You need to register a name with your state, so you should start by first selecting a name for your corporation. Ideally, you will want a name that is memorable and that relates in some way to your business.


Pay attention to your state’s requirements regarding names. Some states might prohibit certain names. For example, the name usually cannot suggest a relationship with the federal government, such as “Federal,” “National,” or “United States.”Also, names usually must end with a specific designator, such as “Corporation,” “Limited,” or “Incorporated” or any abbreviation of those words.;
, You won’t be able to register a name if another business has already taken it. In some states (such as Texas and California), the state will perform a preliminary check on the name’s availability.Alternately, you could check the United States Patent and Trademark database to see if the name has already been chosen. You can visit this website: https://www.uspto.gov/main/profiles/acadres.htm.
 You may have to register or reserve your name with the state. In Illinois, for example, you will need to complete a name reservation form.The form is available online as a PDF. However, you must complete the form, print it off, and then mail it in.There may be a fee to register or reserve your name. The form should state the amount of the fee.
 These corporations are similar in many respects. For example, both provide for limited liability, which protects the owners from legal debts incurred by the corporation. However, they have key differences:S corporations are “pass through” entities for tax purposes. An S corporation does not pay taxes. Instead, the profits and losses are passed through to the owners, who report them on their individual tax returns. An S corporation can only have 100 shareholders, at most, all of whom must be U.S. citizens. To choose the S corporation structure, you must complete IRS Form 2553.
C corporations can have more than 100 shareholders. They pay taxes at the corporate level. When corporations pass corporate income onto shareholders as dividends, that income can be taxed twice—once at the corporate level and then second at the individual level.
 Your corporation’s shareholders will select the Board of Directors, who must be identified before you incorporate with your state.For this reason, you should appoint them as soon as possible. Directors make the major decisions for a corporation, such as who to hire to run the business and whether to issue stock.Initially, many owners appoint themselves as the initial directors. However, you could appoint other people if that is easier.
Your state law might require a minimum of directors. For example, in some states you can appoint only one director if there is one owner. However, if you have at least two owners then you will need at least two directors.
 You also need to draft a set of bylaws, which will describe how the corporation will be run. You might have to file them with your state. The bylaws should include the following information:identifying information, such as name, address, and principal place of business
number of directors and corporate officers
types of stock classes and number of shares
responsibilities of directors, officers, and shareholders
when stockholder meetings will be held
how records will be held and who may review them
procedure for amending articles of incorporation and bylaws

, You can get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) by contacting the IRS. You will need it for tax purposes. Apply online at https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online.
 Find out your state’s requirements for running your business. You can find the correct office to contact by visiting the Small Business Administration’s website, which has a link to each state’s office: https://www.sba.gov/starting-business/business-licenses-permits/state-licenses-permits.
 You incorporate with a state office. Usually, the office is your state’s Secretary of State.However, the office may go by another name, like Department of Corporations or something similar.


You can find the correct office by searching online. Type “your state” and “incorporate” into your favorite search engine.
 There should be a link at the state’s website which you can click for starting the online registration process. For example, on the New York Department of State website, you would click on “Certificate of Incorporation Online Filing.”If you don’t see any link, then find a phone number and call the office. They might not allow you to incorporate online.
If you can’t incorporate online, then print out the necessary forms and complete them by hand.
 Each state might request different information for its articles of incorporation. However, the information should generally be the same. For example, New York will ask for the following information:name of the corporation
county where the corporation is located
your designated agent
name of the person incorporating the business

, You must pay a fee in order to incorporate. The amount will differ by state, but should be around $100-800.In New York, for example, you must pay $125., There is no shortage of online businesses that you can hire who will incorporate you. For a fee, they will handle all of your paperwork and get you incorporated with your state. You can find them online. Some of the more common companies are:


Legalzoom. As of October 2016, they charge $149 or more to incorporate for you. They will also help with personalized bylaws.BizFilings. Prices start at $97 (not including state fees). BizFilings will help you file your articles of incorporation and select a registered agent.Wolters Kluwer. They can help you file for an S or C Corp. You can request a custom quote at their website., Only a qualified attorney can answer specific legal questions you might have. Because each state’s laws are different, you should find someone licensed to practice law in your state. Find a lawyer and schedule a consultation. You should get the answers to these or other questions you might have:


What are the benefits of incorporating?
Would you be better off forming a partnership or a limited liability company (LLC)? How do they differ from corporations?
What are your annual obligations after you incorporate?

, You might need help keeping accurate records as a business. You should reach out to a qualified tax professional, preferably a Certified Public Accountant, to help you. You can find CPAs in the following places:Ask other businesses for a referral.
Talk to your lawyer. Your lawyer should be able to recommend a reputable accountant who has experience in your business industry.
Look in the phone book. Accountants still advertise in the Yellow Pages.
Get a referral from your state’s Society of Certified Public Accountants, which should have a website.

