;
, You will notice a number of buttons on the main screen. If at any time you're having issues with the game, go to the main screen and tap Help, which is on the top row of buttons. The number of stamps and potions you have is visible in the top left corner, your XP points and level are in the top right corner, and your coins are in the bottom left corner.


Catalog: When you tap a frog, one of the options is to add it to your catalog. By adding it to your catalog, that kind of frog will always be available to you to buy. However, frogs in the catalog are more expensive, and you can only have 50 frogs in your catalog.
Awards: Throughout the game, you will have opportunities to earn various awards. Some of the awards are based on the number of frogs you own, how many you have, or the types of frogs you own. Awards are a quick way to earn XP and coins, as well as level up quickly.
Requests: Every now and then you will get a small pop up window, asking for a certain type of frog. If you have that kind of frog, tap "send," and you will receive the written prize. If you don't, just press decline. A new request will come in soon. Although sometimes, at the beginning of the game, you don't have much space and it might be easier to just breed for that frog.
Supply Shop: This is where you buy backgrounds and scenery for your frog habitats. Avoid this! When you are in the Pond, you will often find backgrounds and scenery for free, so don't waste money in the shop.
Pro Shop: This uses real money. You can buy potions and stamps here.
FrogMart: You can buy different or rare frogs here. The frogs being sold change often, so check back daily. When you level up, new frogs are available.
Daily Gift: You can receive one gift every day! You might get coins, stamps, potions, or shippable gifts such as frogs, backgrounds, and decorations.
Mailbox: When you order items from the catalog, supply shop, FrogMart, or find things in the Pond, they go into your Mailbox. It can only hold 8 things, so empty it often!
Neighbors: If you're on a wireless network, this will show you who is playing Pocket Frogs near you. You can view their habitats and send them gifts, as well as challenge them to races.
Froggydex: There are thousands of breeds to be unlocked. The Froggydex shows you which ones you have encountered, and what percentage of all available frogs you have collected. You can "clone" frogs you have already owned from the Froggydex, but it is 10 times as expensive as the maximum value of the frog.
Sets: Every Wednesday at midnight, a new set of frogs is released. If you get this set of frogs and redeem them, you will get a prize! The prize is usually coins, or stamps and potions. It can be much easier to do precisely the same thing by frog requests rather than sets, since the sets are the same for everyone all over the place, however, the requests are different, so requests will always be possible, but sets can sometimes be out of your level range.
 They are in a habitat with a simple dirt background. Resist the urge to buy a new background and scenery! It's easy to find new stuff in the Pond. If you tap the green Menu button in the corner of the habitat, you will see the habitat you were just in as well as a Nursery. When you breed frogs, the eggs stay in the Nursery until they hatch. You can then move the frogs to another habitat.
 If you didn't tap the correct frog, use the arrow buttons on either side of the frog's picture to navigate through all your frogs. You will see some stats, some brown and green buttons, and a message that says, "Tame in pond for more options." Tap the Pond button.
 There will be a small red bar at the top of the screen that says "Flies to Tame" and then a number. You must catch that number of flies before you leave the Pond to unlock more options for that frog. The number you must catch varies depending on the level of the frog you're trying to tame.
To catch flies, just jump from lily pad to lily pad when there is a fly in your flight path. If the frog and the fly "hit" mid-jump, the frog has caught the fly.
To open a present, jump on the lily pad that has the present. It will open automatically. If it's coins, it will be added to what you have. If it's an object or a frog, you can choose if you want it. If your mailbox is full, you can't keep it! If the present contains a frog, take it even if you really don't want it. You can sell it later for extra coins.
The Pond is essentially never ending. Keep moving in one direction (i.e. keep tapping lily pads on the bottom of the screen) to explore as much of the Pond as possible.
Stay in the Pond for a while to maximize gift collecting. Awards #15 and #57 require you to collect two gifts and two rare gifts in one trip to the Pond, respectively.
Going to the Pond and catching flies will also help young frogs mature more quickly. Catching flies also increase the frog's happiness.
Before you go to the Pond, make sure you have room in your Nursery (in case you decide to breed with a frog you find in the Pond) and your Mailbox (in case you find shippable gifts.)

, Jump on the lily pad that has the other frog. This may take some patience,because the other frog sometimes runs away! When a window pops up, tap the yes button to breed. An egg will be placed in the Nursery and you'll get some XP. It should be the same amount of coins you spent to breed.
Breed with frogs you find in the pond as often as possible; you can often find rarer breeds that aren't available to you yet. Sometimes, the best thing to do is bring an Anura or some other low level to the pond to breed with a higher level, so that it doesn't cost as much, and if you get the higher level frog, you can get much more than you paid for to resell it. This can be a risk though, because if you get the lower level, you could lose as much as 1,500 coins.
To breed two frogs in the same habitat, they must also be tamed adults. Tap one of the frogs and press the Breed button. The screen will show you all available frogs to breed with. Select a frog and press Breed.
The Nursery is a lot like the mailbox in that you can only have 8 eggs or frogs in the Nursery before it's considered full.
 Rare frogs are worth a lot more. To maximise your profit, bring the frog's happiness bar up to 100% before you sell. Frogs can be made happy by catching flies in the Pond, or by playing the puzzle game. If you have decorations in the frog's habitat, these will make the frog happy as well.


Tame each frog before you sell it so you get some more XP points.
Making the frog happy before you sell it may seem like a waste of time, but not doing so causes you to lose money. Let's say you have 8 identical frogs that you bought in order to fulfill an award. Each frog is worth 200 coins. You decide to sell them all before they are completely happy, and you make 150 coins off of each frog. This results in a total profit of 1,200 coins. However, if you brought each frog to the Pond before you sold it, you could have made 1,600 coins.



The majority of the awards ask you to collect 8 mature frogs of the same species in one habitat. Pretend that right now, you only have one of that frog. There are two ways to do this.

First, add that frog to your catalog. Go to the catalog and buy another one. After it is delivered, place it in the habitat with the first frog.
This is where the choice comes in: would you rather spend time or coins?
If you want to spend the coins and get the award quickly, go back to the catalog and buy as many more frogs as you need.
If you want to spend the time, and get more XP points, breed those two frogs as many times as needed. You will have to move all of those frogs from the nursery into the new habitat, and you'll have to wait for them to mature before you can get the award. To make them mature quickly, you can take them to the pond, or you can also use potions if you have them.
Once you've achieved the award, sell those frogs.
If you're having an issue finding the correct frog, you can breed it. For example, if you need a Yellow Tingo Anura for award #4, you can breed any color Anura with any pattern Yellow Tingo frog. It may take a few tries, but eventually you will have the frog you are looking for.
 Racing frogs is another great way to earn coins fast. Tap a frog, make sure its happiness meter is up to 100% and press the race button. Select a frog that has higher numbers listed under Speed and Stamina. There is an entrance fee to race, but if you come in first or second place, your prize will be bigger than the entrance fee was. If you come in first place, you can either accept the coin reward, or you can take one of your opponents' frogs. You can also take more than one by tapping 2 or more frogs at once, but just make sure you roll your fingers off of them, to prevent possible corrupting. Now you just have to tap 'yes' when the box comes up, just make sure you have space for any of the ones you're getting in your mailbox.
 They help you to level up quickly by giving you XP points. The awards aren't complicated; it's just sometimes difficult to find the specific frog they need.
 Many of the scenery pieces help to keep your frogs happy and the backgrounds just make them look nice. However, if you're really broke, you can also sell a few of your decorations, but because they do help with happiness, only do this if you're actually stuck.

