 Most ranches raise grazing livestock like cattle or sheep. Animals have to be carefully cared for, as they are used for breeding and meat production. Sheep’s wool is also sheared and processed on some ranches.


Many ranches also have horses. They as are used as work animals or to entertain guests with scenic horseback rides. Remember that horse care is another specialty job that must be completed on a ranch.
 Uncommon ranch animals include bison, ostrich, emu, and alpacas.Bison ranches often produce meat, furs, and leather products.Ostrich ranches produce a ranch of products from meat to ostrich leather to eggs.Emu farms also produce eggs, meat, and emu oil.Alpaca farms usually produce yarn to make clothing and alpaca meat., Tractors are commonplace on ranches, as are balers, and augers. Knowing how to operate and provide maintenance on these pieces of equipment will make you a valuable ranch hand.



Tractors are large trucks designed to move heavy material on rough terrain. They have many gears and controls that require extensive training. Make sure you are fully trained on how to operate tractors before use.Balers are large machines that crush large amounts of material into rectangular or circular shapes. On ranches, Balers are often filled with vegetation or hay which is later used as animal feed. Balers are usually used in combination with a tractor, and also require training before use., All ranches have extensive fencing that regularly needs to be built, mended, or changed. Fences are typically constructed with barbed wire, steel posts, and wooden corner posts. Learn the basics of fence maintenance and building. Avoid common mistakes while building fences. Be sure to use the right materials for each part of the fence. Use the correct sizing and spacing when you measure and build your posts.
 Ranches range in size and tend to be quite large. The largest ranches in the United States can be up to 2,000,000 acres in size! Many ranchers use some sort of all-terrain vehicle (ATV) or truck to get around the ranch.Others might use horses to cut back on the cost of fuel.Prepare to ride or drive as you go through your work day on the ranch.

