 Start asking around. E-mail your friends. Get them to email their friends. Ask the members of your book club or community group. Choose two or three. Ideally choose people who have the same types of food preferences and close to the same number of eaters. (For example, it's unwise to pair yourself up with, say, a child-free vegetarian couple and a meat-eating family of 9. No matter what is made/shared, someone will be disappointed.) Also, it's a good idea to choose people who live within reasonable driving/walking distance of each other, as you will have to transport some good eating!;
, Generally speaking, there are two types of Freezer Groups.


"Make, Freeze and Bring" - In these groups, everyone makes many portions of a single dish at home. Then, he/she separates it by family/recipient and freezes the portions individually. (For example, you might make 16 servings of meatballs, then divide it up into 4 Tupperware containers, each being one dinner for a family of four) Then, the group meets at regular intervals -- weekly, bi-weekly, monthly -- at a designated person's house to exchange food.
"Make Together and Freeze" - In these type of groups, the participants will meet at a member's house and cook meals together. At the end of the day, they box up the foods in containers they brought with them and freeze when they get home. Either the members bring their own ingredients or the host provides them and everyone chips in to pay for them.
The first option is great for experienced cooks who just want to make and swap. It’s high on convenience and low on social contact. However, if you're one who has food allergies or is particular about preparation, this may not be your best choice, as you have no control of what you receive. The second option is a good option for social butterflies and/or people who want to improve their cooking skills. Since you'll all be cooking together, experienced cooks might want to do the more difficult stuff while novice cooks handle the prep work (e.g. chopping, stirring). Obviously, this sort of arrangement requires that at least one person in the group has a large kitchen.
 Before things kick off, poll the group on food allergies and “won't eats.” A “won’t eat” is essentially a food you (or another eater) finds so disgusting, you would sooner eat your own sneaker. Incorporate these preferences into your meal making.
 Instituting some basic ground rules helps set expectations and makes sure everyone gets the most out of the experience. Here are a few items you may want to focus on:


Cost - Figure out a target budget. If you’re cooking together, you may wish to take the grocery bill and divide it by the number of Freezer Group members or eaters. If you're cooking separately, you may wish to set a target amount per meal or per eater.
Containers - Decide whether to use your own containers (and swap them) or invest in containers for the entire group.
Clean Up - If you're cooking together, make it clear that everyone in the group is part of the cleanup process and leaves the host/hostess with a clean house. The purpose of this group is convenience. As such, it’s bad manners to leave a host/hostess with a kitchen he/she has to spend hours cleaning.
Meeting Location/Schedule - Set up a schedule (for swapping and/or cooking) ahead of time. Presumably you want to do this because you're busy. As such, advance notice lets you plan (and cook) accordingly.
Portions and Meal Components - Outline the number of portions everyone is responsible for making. Also, decide what a “meal" means. For example, some groups make and freeze complete dinners (e.g. main dish and side dishes), while others just focus on a main dish.
 You've cooked. You've swapped. You've frozen. Now, get ready to enjoy a delicious home cooked meal (without the hassle).

