 Before looking for a dietitian, you should work with a physician to come to a medical diagnosis of your condition. Without a proper diagnosis, your dietitian won’t know how to best work with you.


Consult with a gastroenterologist or another digestive health specialist.
Have your IBD formally diagnosed, if it has not been already.
Explain your symptoms to the doctor. For example, if you experience frequent diarrhea, pain, weight loss, and fatigue, let your doctor know.
Your doctor may diagnose you with ulcerative colitis and/or Crohn’s disease – forms of IBD.;
, Start a journal of what you eat so you can keep track of the types of foods that aggravate your IBD. Without tracking what you consume and your digestive track’s reaction to them, you and your dietitian won’t be able to create a dietary plan tailored to your needs.


Write down what you eat and when.
Note days and times where you have an IBD flare up.
Look for patterns about what aggravates your IBD. For instance, you may have noticed that cured meats or fried foods give you diarrhea frequently. The plan you put together with your dietitian will restrict or eliminate those foods., After consulting a doctor and starting your journal, you’ll need to find a dietitian that specializes in IBD. Dietitians with experience consulting with IBD patients will have the most knowledge to help you successfully create a plan to suit your needs.


Have your digestive specialist recommend a dietitian.
Attend IBD support groups in your area. They’ll likely have a list of dietitians who specialize in digestive health.
Review a list of digestive health dietitians at websites like http://www.diarrheadietitian.com.
 After meeting a dietitian, you’ll set up an appointment for a dietary assessment. During this assessment, the dietitian will review your food intake and other factors unique to you. The dietary assessment will provide them with the information they need to put together a dietary plan. You dietitian will note:


Your weight, height, and body mass index.
Your diet and diet history.
Your physical condition and medical history.
Your blood and biochemical makeup. They’ll likely request a blood and/or urine test., Your dietitian will create a plan for you to follow on a daily basis. This plan will address your condition and your dietary needs. It will be designed to minimize IBD flare-ups and symptoms.


Your plan will detail foods you should avoid. For example, stay away from greasy and fatty foods.
The plan will list foods you should eat. It will likely name many fresh fruits and vegetables.
Your plan may include a list of meals and dishes you should prepare.
The plan might also include an exercise routine., You need to make sure you keep regular contact with your dietitian. This is important, as the dietitian will be able to monitor your food intake and IBD flare-ups and symptoms and will adjust your dietary plan accordingly.


At first, you should see your dietitian every week or two.
Over the mid-term, you need to visit your nutritionist every month.
If you work with a dietitian over the long-term, you should see them every six months, or as needed., Your dietitian will most likely instruct you to drink a lot of water. While water keeps you hydrated and helps insure a healthy digestive track, most people do not consume enough of it. Water is especially important for people who suffer from IBD because you’ll need to replenish what you lose after a bad episode of diarrhea.


Drink 1 ounce of water for every 2 pounds of weight. For instance, a 120-lb. person should drink 60 ounces (54 kilograms to 1.77 liters) of water daily.
Add more water after exercising.
Consume more water after an episode of diarrhea.
Consider water or liquids infused with electrolytes and other necessary vitamins like vitamin A, C, D and others., Consuming the right amount and type of fiber is important for people who suffer from IBD. Fiber is important because it makes your intestines work more efficiently. Thus, your dietitian will likely recommend fiber as a major component of your dietary plan.


Fiber might decrease some symptoms of IBD, like bloating and pain.
Your dietitian will probably recommend increasing your consumption of dietary fiber – fiber that is present in foods you might normally eat. Dietary fiber includes fruits and vegetables like apples, pears, carrots, and whole grains.
Depending on your diet and circumstances, your dietitian may also recommend increasing your consumption of added fiber, which may be a supplement like Benefiber., There are a wide variety of foods that aggravate IBD. Thus, your dietitian will likely recommend eliminating or reducing them from your diet. By eliminating certain products, you’ll probably experience fewer and less severe IBD flare-ups. Some things your dietitian might recommend limiting include:


Lactose
Caffeine
Alcohol
NuSorbitol
Fatty or greasy foods
Gas-producing foods like cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussel sprouts., You dietitian may recommend certain supplements and vitamins as part of your diet. This is important, as your IBD may result in your depletion of certain essential vitamins. Always speak to your doctor or dietitian before taking supplements of any kind. Some important vitamins and supplements include:


Fish oil and flax seed oil
Vitamin D
Vitamin B12
Electrolytes
Prebiotics, psyllium, and probiotics.