 Offering to reach out to your network is a good way to utilize your contacts to help a friend. Even though your contacts may not know your friend, they will respect your recommendation and be of assistance if they can. When speaking to your contacts, be sure to reach out to them individually because a more personal approach will get a better response.


You can choose to contact those in your network via phone, email or social media message, including the type of position your friend is looking for and why you feel they are qualified for such a role.
Even provide statistics or examples of their accomplishments if need be. For example, “My friend John is looking for a new opportunity as a sales representative. He has exceeded sales goals month over month and has received numerous company awards for his achievements. If you know of any available positions, please let me know and I will be happy to pass the information to him”.
 If your friend is the type of person that will feel more comfortable showing up to a networking event with a friend, be supportive. Sometimes just walking in with the person is all they need to feel comfortable. After a few minutes or talking to a few people together, encourage your friend to go out one their own, although there is no set time frame for this since everyone is different.


You should do your best to get them out there on their own as soon as possible to boost their confidence.
Also keep in mind that while attending this event is mainly to help your friend, you also can benefit from attending. Therefore, use your time wisely and network yourself.
You can even talk about your friend if you feel the person you are speaking with may be able to help them find a job.
 Many recruiters browse through social media profiles to find the right candidate for open positions. Having a well written profile is good, but having recommendations posted from people is even better. If you have worked with your friend and can write a well written recommendation, offer to do this for them. You can start by writing this on paper or by email and have your friend approve it before posting. When writing a recommendation, be sure to include the following:


An explanation of your working relationship (co-worker, client, vendor, etc).
A strength that makes them stand out.
An example of why they are great at what they do (brief story, 1-2 sentences).
 When it comes time for background and reference checks, your friend may benefit from your recommendation. You can offer to be a reference for them and give them permission to provide a potential employer your contact information. If they take you up on your offer, think about what you will say about them if you are contacted.


Make sure you focus on the person’s strengths, accomplishments, work ethic and character.
Do not provide any negative information or “funny stories” that may not be so amusing to the potential employer.

