 Look for two trees that are about 10-12 feet apart to hang your hammock when you’re outdoors. The trees should be alive and healthy with solid bark and no overhead hazards.


Choose trees that are at least a foot (12 inches) in diameter to ensure stability.
Do not use trees for mounting your hammock if they are closer together than 10 feet, as your hammock may be too low to the ground when weight is applied.
Check with the administrators of the park or natural area you’re in before hanging up your hammock. Some have rules and regulations regarding hanging hammocks, as it can affect the health of trees.;
, Take out your set of two ENO SlapStraps and attach one to each of your mounting trees. The straps should wrap around a wide part of the trunk, about 5 feet from the ground.









To attach a SlapStrap, wrap it around the trunk of a tree and hold an end in each hand. Thread one end through the loop on the other end, then pull until the strap is tight around the tree trunk. Do this with both straps/trees.
You can use your own rope or strap system instead of ENO’s SlapStraps, but note that they may be more difficult to put up or less safe.
 Ensure you are using SlapStraps properly as discussed here to avoid any negative impact on the trees you use to hang the hammock. Try placing sticks in between the strap and the tree to lessen friction.


Gather a handful of sticks from the ground in your surrounding area. They should be roughly the length of your forearm and of the same diameter as one another. Note that you need their diameter to be thick enough to stick out from the bark of the tree slightly.
Hang your SlapStraps, then place the sticks between the strap and the tree, all the way around, about a hand’s width apart between each one., Attach your ENO hammock between the trees by using the provided carabiners on each end of the hammock. Slip the carabiner into one of the five loops provided.









Your ENO hammock comes with an aluminum wiregate carabiner at either end for attachment to straps. Push to open the gate to put it on one of the loops, then make sure the carabiner is fully closed around it.
The five adjustment loops available make it easy to adjust the height of the hammock. Just choose a higher or lower loop depending on how far you want your hammock to be from the ground (recommended 18 inches or lower when occupied)., Slowly put weight on your hammock once it has been attached to the straps on the trees. Sit and then lay down fully in the hammock to determine if it is at the right height.









If you touch the ground at all while in the hammock, it should be higher. Secure the carabiners to a higher loop on each SlapStrap. If you have no more available loops, you need to select trees that are farther apart.
If it’s difficult to get into your hammock to begin with, it should be lower. Attach the carabiners to a lower loop on the SlapStraps. If you have no more lower loops, choose trees that are closer together, or purchase Atlas or Atlas XL straps.
The ends of your hammock should be placed into loops so that they are level, or with a slight difference that’s comfortable to you while you’re lying down in it (for example, you may like to have your head slightly higher).