 You'll get the best sound if you choose a wide, long piece of dry bamboo. The longer and wider your wood, the richer the sound will be. You can cut and cure your own bamboo or buy a piece at a garden store. Get a smooth, straight piece without any bends or holes.;
, If your bamboo piece isn't already hollow, use a metal rod to push out the material at its center. Once the path is clear, attach a piece of sandpaper to the end of the rod. Use it to sand the inside of the bamboo so that it's smooth and free of obstructions.


If you don't have a metal rod, any sort of strong, long implement sturdy enough to scrape out the inside of the bamboo will work.
 Use a pencil to create a pattern of dots around the outside of the bamboo. These dots will be the places where you bore holes to insert the wooden skewers, which are an essential part of the rainstick. Making a pattern that spirals around the bamboo from the top to the bottom will look very attractive and ensure that the pebbles or rocks you place inside will have plenty of obstacles to plink against.
 Use a drill bit the same size as your wooden skewers, so they'll be able to slide right in. Carefully drill each hole you marked, taking care to puncture the bamboo without drilling through to the other side of the stick.


If you do not have a drill, you can still make a rainstick using long nails. Instead of drilling the holes, use a hammer to pound a long nail through each hole. Make sure the nail isn't long enough to penetrate the other side of the bamboo stick.
 Put a bit of glue on the tip of a skewer and thread it through one of the holes. Push it through until it runs up against the other side of the bamboo stick. Use a sturdy pair of scissors or a small handsaw to cut the skewer flush against the bamboo stick. Continue inserting skewers and cutting the ends until each hole has been filled.


This step isn't necessary if you used nails instead of skewers.
 Wait about an hour before finishing your rainstick.
 Sand off the nubs left from the skewers with a flat file or some sandpaper.
 To plug the ends of the rainstick, cut out two circular pieces of wood the same width as the ends of the stick. Glue the first end cap to the base of the stick using wood glue or superglue, to make sure it won't budge. Save the other cap for now.


If you don't have the supplies to cut out pieces of wood, you can make endcaps out of cardboard, particle board, or another sturdy item you have in your home. Just make sure you can glue the cap securely to the end of the stick.
 Different materials will make different sounds as they plink against the wooden skewers. Use pebbles of different sizes, pennies, dried rice, dried beans, beads, and any other items you like. Fill the rainstick about 1/8 - 1/4 with objects.


Don't overfill the rainstick, or you won't be able to hear the individual sounds of the objects.
Putting too few objects in the rainstick won't give you the impression of rain when you use your instrument.
 Use wood glue or superglue to seal the rainstick on the other side. Let it dry completely before using.

