 Once you have been diagnosed, your doctor will present a treatment plan. This plan is likely to include a topical corticosteroid, which you will need to apply directly to the areas of psoriasis.Low-potency corticosteroids reduce redness and swelling.
Some side effects of corticosteroid use can include: rash, bruising, skin tearing, and enlarged blood vessels. Discontinue use and contact your doctor if you experience these problems.;
, However, this treatment can irritate the skin, so it should be used sparingly and with caution.In many cases, vitamin D will be combined in a cream with corticosteroids.
 In addition to topical medication, your doctor may prescribe an oral medication, especially if your psoriasis is severe. For instance, your doctor may prescribe methotrexate. This is an anti-inflammatory medication that is taken either in pill form or in an injection, although most patients take it weekly in tablet form.Discuss the medications your doctor wants to use, including possible side effects, and be sure that your doctor is an experienced dermatologist before agreeing to this type of treatment.Be sure that you are only using these medications for short periods of time. Otherwise, the side effects can be severe., This is a drug that suppresses the immune system and stops the inflammation associated with psoriasis. It is usually taken daily in pill form. In order to get the benefits from this medication, it may need to be taken for several months, up to several years.Your blood pressure and kidney function should be monitored while you are on this medication.
 Retinoids are derived from vitamin A and are used for a variety of skin conditions. They are applied directly to the skin in order to remove scales and ease inflammation. One common type of retinoid that is used for facial psoriasis is acitretin.This medication should not be taken if you are pregnant or breast feeding.
 These medications are made from natural materials, such as plants or microorganisms, and are sometimes known as biological response modifiers or targeted therapies. They interact with specific parts of the immune system, stopping it from attacking the skin and causing inflammation. Some common biologic agents that are prescribed for facial psoriasis include:Infliximab (Remicade)
Etanercept (Enbrel)
Adalimumab (Humira)
Ustekinumab (Stelara)
Secukinumb (Cosentxy)

, In addition to medication, your doctor may suggest that you undergo photo therapy, or ultraviolet light therapy, to treat your psoriasis. Psoriasis often responds well to brief daily exposure to light. Your doctor will instruct you about the light therapy that is needed, as exposure to too much light can make your psoriasis worse.Do not use light therapy if you have photo-sensitivity or sun damage on your face.

