 There are stores in the Mall that even allow you to pick your own bear, and stuff it yourself. For example, there is a place in some US cities called Lil Lovables Fluffable Factory where you create tiny teddies and can get them some clothes. And of course there's Build-A-Bear Workshop where you stuff your own stuffed animal and clothes for them.;
, You may want a male bear or a female bear. Select the bear that is just the right size and color for you.
 Name your bear something that suits its personality as you see it. If your bear is shy and not a talker, you could name him or her "Whisper" or "Tim" as in "Timid". If your bear is loud and outgoing, you could name him or her "Bubbles" or "Burst". You can also name your bear according to its appearance. If he or she is black, you could name him "Midnight", "Shadow", or "Ebony". If he or she is white, you might want to name him or her "Snow White" or "Ivory". You can also name your bear just by a feeling that they fit that name. You can name your bear whatever you want, just be sure to keep its gender in mind! If you are stuck, and your teddy is a boy, you could name it Theodore. Why? Because many people named Theodore have the nickname Teddy. See?

, Or, if your animal is a monkey, you can spell it differently and it's name could be Monkie.
 It's said that the day you tie a ribbon on the teddy bear is your teddy bear's birthday. If you have a build a bear then use the birthday on the birth certificate instead.
 This information will include the name you chose, the eye color, and the gender. Make sure you add your name as the person who adopted the bear. Also write down your bear's hobbies and interests.
 If you have a build a bear then use the birth certificate that came with it instead. (Hint: Your bear's birthday is the date you first tied the ribbon on him or her.)

, Introduce your new teddy to your family, too. Set aside a spot in your room, for the bear to sleep or sit when you are away from home.
 Your teddy will always be there for you, whether you're happy, or sad, or mad, or lonely. Tell all of your secrets to your teddy.
 You might want to take your teddy to school. (Be sure you get permission first.)

, Treat your teddy with love and caring and your teddy will give it all back to you.

