 Along with your vegetables, you will also need a knife and cutting board, toothpicks, a serving platter, a large floral foam cone, and aluminum foil.
 You can use most vegetables to make a vegetable tree, but broccoli and cauliflower work well to create the bulk of the tree. You can experiment with other vegetables, but a good start will include:


A bunch of red kale
Three or four carrots
A pint of cherry tomatoes
One yellow and one orange pepper
One cucumber

, Wash and dry all the vegetables. Remove stems and seeds from the kale, peppers, and carrots. Peel the carrots as well.


Cut the carrots and cucumber into two-inch long chunks, and cut each chunk lengthwise into quarters.
Cut the peppers into very thin strips.
Remove the stalks from the broccoli and cauliflower and cut them into bite-sized florets.
 Cover the cone with aluminum foil. Place it in the center of the serving platter. Surround the tree base with kale.
 Insert the toothpicks into the remaining stalks on the broccoli and cauliflower florets and into the bottom of the cucumber and carrot sticks. Skewer the tomatoes.
 Starting at the bottom, stick the other end of the toothpicks into the cone and create a circle of alternating cauliflower and broccoli florets around the base of the cone. Try not to leave any open spaces.


Directly above that row, insert a row of vegetables, alternating between carrots stick, cucumber sticks, and tomatoes. Continue up the tree, alternating between rows of broccoli/cauliflower and other vegetables, until you have covered the entire cone, including the tip.
Overlap the vegetables as much as possible so there are no open spaces.
 Use the natural curve of the pepper slices to stick them into the spaces between the other vegetables and string the slices around the entire tree like ribbon.
 If you have any vegetable pieces left over, remove the toothpicks and arrange them at the base of the tree on the bed of kale. Wrap the tree in plastic and store in the fridge until you are ready to serve or present it.


Consider serving the vegetable tree with vegetable dip, hummus, or spinach dip.

