 Your face will do just fine if it's clean. Bare minerals do have a cleanser that is nice and smooth and really makes your face feel nice. Always end with a splash of cold water to close any pores.;
, ALWAYS moisturize after cleansing your skin. This helps as the skin is in an absorbent mode and will take in the nutrients. Bare minerals also has moisturizers and a tinted moisturizer that you may prefer. Make sure you are using clean fingers when doing this, make sure there is no cleanser on your hands or under your nails because if that gets on your face it will become flaky as it drys!

, Many people skip this step due to just not having a primer. Bare Minerals has a primer called PRIME TIME! It is a very good primer and a little goes a long way as does most of their products. This smooths the face and gives a nice smooth surface to work with.
 Start with your original foundation. There is a compact powder and a loose powder to choose from and a matte finish or original depending on your skin type. Your skin may tend to be dry so you can use original loose powder in medium tone. Tap a little into the lid and swirl your brush in it and tap off excess. When it is applied go in circles. This allows the minerals to get around any bumps on your face to help cover them. There are two types of brushes a normal (short brush) and full coverage (longer thicker brush). If using full coverage be careful you don't pack it on.
 After the foundation you can use warmth with a hair dryer possibly and go right under your cheekbone up to your temples and then blend that across your forehead and also along your jaw and then you can take it down your neck. If you are tan you will have to use it down your neck to your chest depending on how you tanned. Use very little.
 You can use the bare minerals correcting concealer in light 2. You can however use the original foundation with the concealer brush and have a more precise way for covering any acne or blemish you want covered.
 If you use blush, do so now. You may rarely use blush if you do use a tiny bit and swirl it on the apples of your cheek and go right above the bronzer.
 Take this in the lid and swirl and tap and then first apply it at your eyes and over your cheekbones and then all over your face and neck to set the rest of the makeup.
 After it is all done, use a spray bottle with water or a wet washcloth and either lightly mist your face or dab your face with the washcloth to set the makeup you can however by a setting spray that helps conceal the makeup.

