 Life doesn't always go according to plan and there will be times when he needs you. Be there for him and be supportive when he experiences relationship, job, health, or other problems. In turn, he's more likely to be there for you.
 You can learn a lot about one another when you're away from your normal environs and you're doing something that requires you to support each other. Try to set up some outdoor activities with him to just spend some quality time.


Camping is a great get-away. Set up a tent, start the fire, break out the s’mores. A night under the stars could be a great bonding experience.
Exercise together in the mountains. Grab a mountain bike or just put on some running shoes before you hit the trails.
Fishing is a great way to have a quiet moment together. Sitting near some serene water could provide a moment for you to both have a great discussion, and you might even catch some fish.
If you live apart, make a time to meet in a local cafe or one another's house to catch up over coffee or a meal. And if you live overseas, arrange for one of you to make the "journey of a lifetime" to catch up with each other in the foreign destination.
 Find a way to laugh out loud or cheer with one another, a moment that just allows you to let loose in your brother’s company.



Jokes and tales can be a great way to reconnect without the usual hubbub of sibling life around you. A comedy club could be a great way to laugh until your sides hurt. Maybe you’d even like to try your hand at stand up comedy?

Choose a movie to watch together. Go to the fancy theater, a dollar theater, or rent. Whatever it is, even if it’s something on TV, find a movie in which you will both be able to immerse yourself.
Go to a concert. Dress up, sing all the songs, dance until your heart is content. Going to a concert might even improve your health., Sometimes he might be in a situation where he needs your support and backing in a public way. Be sure to be there for him as a person who trusts and believes in him.

