 Choose a location that is semi-private and is somewhere neutral. Refrain from choosing locations where there might be other people (especially children) who do not want to see fighting. Schedule the fight at a time that works for both opponents.


If you are playing in a team sport, choose an appropriate time to fight during the match. If your teammates are depending on you to help win, they will not appreciate it if you derail the match with unnecessary fighting.
Do not expect sportsmanship in a fight that is not planned. You might go into a fight expecting it to be fair, but if you are surprising your opponent, that person may not fight fair. Similarly, if your opponent has surprised you, they are not fighting fair from the start, and may not use tactics that are on the up-and-up.
 If they do not want to fight and are willing to resolve the conflict in another way, give them a chance to do so. Forcing someone to fight with you is not a fair way to fight. Both parties must be willing participants.
 Understand why you want to fight. Are you working on your combat skills? Did the other person insult you? What are you trying to prove with your fight? Taking some time to understand your motives might also diffuse your need to fight.
 Making a conscious decision among all involved participants to abide by a set of ground rules will ensure that no one will use dirty tricks to win a fight. If you are fighting to build your skills, ground rules will also ensure that no one gets seriously injured. Ground rules might include:


Do not hit in the face or the groin.
Do not scratch or bite. These are dirty tricks that will label you as an unfair fighter. After biting an opponent's ear, Mike Tyson was disqualified and even lost his boxing license.Allow an opponent to tap out if they are hurt or tired. The fight quickly becomes uneven if one of the fighters is compromised physically. If your opponent is seriously hurt, take them to a doctor or call the Emergency Services.
Refrain from serious name-calling. A little harmless name-calling is probably fine and even warranted in a physical fight. But when the name-calling turns to very personal, vicious attacks, it can change the tone of the fight.
 Even if you are quaking with fear, projecting self-confidence will alert your opponent to take the fight seriously and to fight fairly and respectfully.Stand tall, breathe deeply, and smooth away any worried expressions from your face. Think positive thoughts like, "I can win this," and "I am tough."

, Your opponent is taking a risk with their body, just as you are with yours. By treating each other with respect, you can have the fight as safely as possible.
 These can inflict serious injury and should be avoided if possible. Reexamine the reasons why you are fighting and determine if your fight warrants using weapons at all.
 If your opponent is on the ground, they can’t fight back very effectively, and it makes the fight uneven. Demonstrate good sportsmanship by helping your opponent stand up, or at least standing back while they get to their feet.
 Do not allow other people to fight with/for you. Bringing in reinforcements to fight with you, even if it is just one or two other people, will make the fight unbalanced. As a result, you will look like someone who can't handle their own fights. Take responsibility for the reasons you want to fight, and resolve the altercation on your own terms.

