 The simple syrup should consist of two parts sugar and one part water. Heat the two ingredients together until the sugar is completely dissolved. Note, however, that the amount of simple syrup called for in this recipe is too small to make on its own, so you might need to make more than necessary.


To make simple syrup, begin by boiling 1/4 cup (60 ml) water in a small saucepan set on the stove over high heat.

Once the water is boiling, add 1/2 cup (120 ml) sugar to the pan. Stir well.
Stir the mixture constantly as it continues to boil and cook. When ready, there should be no visible grains of sugar left and the liquid should look clear.


Set aside 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of this simple syrup for your Dr. Pepper recipe. Save the rest in a sealed plastic or glass container stored in the refrigerator.;
, You caramelize sugar by heating it until it melts and turns brown. As with the simple syrup, the quantity called for in this recipe is too small to make on its own, so you might need to make more than required.


To caramelize sugar, begin by sprinkling 1/4 cup (60 ml) white granulated sugar on the bottom of a small, heavy saucepan. Spread the granules out so that they form an even layer.

Place the saucepan on the stove and heat it on medium.
As the sugar begins to brown around the edges, stir it with a wooden spoon or silicone spatula to distribute the heat more evenly. If you do not stir the sugar, some may burn before the rest has a chance to caramelize.
Remove the pan from the heat as soon as the sugar melts and takes on a dark amber color. The caramelized sugar should begin to smoke slightly immediately before you remove it from the heat.


When done, immediately set aside 10 minims (650 mg) of caramelized sugar for use in your drink. You can save the rest, if desired, by transferring it to a non-reactive sealed container and storing it in the refrigerator.
 Stir well with a stirring rod or spoon to mix thoroughly.


Let the caramelized sugar and simple syrup cool to room temperature before you combine the ingredients.
When purchasing citric acid and phosphoric acid, use food grade quality only.
Note that this formula was printed in 1912, back when Dr. Pepper was still used as a pharmaceutical remedy for digestive problems. As such, this recipe will not taste like contemporary Dr. Pepper purchased in the store. If you want to know what the original drink tasted like, however, this recipe will give you a good idea.
The original recipe called for hydrocyanic acid, which is not readily available for commercial purchase. Since this solution tastes like almonds, almond extract has been substituted in its place.
 Slowly pour the water directly over the flavors in the bottom of the glass. The bubbles produced by the carbonation should blend the flavors for the most part, but to ensure that all the flavors get mixed into the drink, slowly mix the contents of the glass with a stirring rod or spoon several times.


Do not stir the drink too rapidly since doing so will release more bubbles and may cause the drink to go flat before you can drink it.
Use cold soda water if possible. If you chill the soda water before you add it to the flavoring ingredients, you should not need to chill the finished drink before drinking it.
 If the drink is already cold enough, you do not need to refrigerate it. Otherwise, refrigerate the drink for 15 minutes or so before enjoying.


Originally, Dr. Pepper did not contain caffeine, which is why this supposedly original recipe does not contain caffeine, either.

