 Buying the cheapest products is a false economy. Canvas or ballistic nylon rugs can last 10 years or more, while cheaper rugs may not last a season.


Buy from recommendations. The best is sometimes hard to find. Ask other owners about products they have used and liked.
Buy expensive equipment co-operatively. Things like clippers are expensive but are used infrequently so are easily shared. Alternatively hire them out to others to re-gain some of the cost.
 Be alert for the sales and buy when they're on. In particular, buy at the end of the season, such as getting winter rugs in spring.
 It's cheaper and easier to care for and store.
 This can include Vaseline, sunblock, after-sun, baby wipes, nappy-rash cream (this is interchangeable with udder cream) buckets, brooms, shovels and hair brushes. They will be cheaper from local shops than products aimed exclusively at the equestrian market.


Use disposable nappies as a poultice. They can be used as a very effective and cheap poultice for the hoof.
 Bang excess dirt off tools, air and wash rugs, clean your tack and cover it in a breathable cover. Store equipment under cover, in a well ventilated area. Well maintained equipment will last longer.


Keep leather tack well-conditioned.
Use rainy afternoons as a time to clean equipment while you talk with your horse.
 Loss of equipment can be costly and replacing costs money. To stop this from happening, here are some solutions:


Mark your smaller equipment, like the grooming kit, with your horse's or your own name, to help stop things going missing, especially in a livery yard.
Put your name on lead ropes and halters. They're easy to borrow and forget to return but with a name on them, this becomes a reminder to would-be borrowers that they need to return them.
Mark turnout rugs with your postal code in big letters. Although this isn’t attractive, turnout rugs are expensive, easily stolen and usually not covered by insurance.
Keep a check list for checking off after events, to make sure you've gathered up everything prior to leaving.
 Being resourceful means that you can repair and make your own equipment to save costs. Some suggestions include:


You can make the old horse cover last a long longer with some simply DIY repairs. Many small tears in these coats can be repaired simply using a hot glue gun. Even taking the cover along to a saddler or canvas-repair worker can be much cheaper than getting a new coat.
Restore waterproofing yourself. Purchase waterproofing agents off the shelf; some are sprayed on, some brushed, so follow the instructions provided.
Use a rug underneath to increase warmth of an older cover. Old covers can become rugs when they've had it as a cover.
Remove buckles, leather straps and other items before tossing out old covers. These can be used to repair other covers.
Make your own equipment and horse care products. Everything from horse hoof oil, shampoos, coat enhancers to cleaning equipment can be made yourself. Rope halters and hay nets are examples of equipment you can make at home.
Make your own jumps. Use tires and milk crates as makeshift wings.

