 Some states have laws that go beyond federal law to protect your civil rights in additional contexts.


State agencies also investigate discrimination complaints, sometimes working alongside federal agencies.In some situations, the state agency will send the complaint along to the federal agency as well, in a procedure known as "dual filing." For example, if you file an employment discrimination complaint with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, the department also will file your complaint with the EEOC., As with the federal government, state governments include different agencies that have the power to handle certain types of civil rights complaints.


For example, if you live and work in Texas and you have a complaint about discrimination in the workplace that you believe violated your civil rights, you can file a state complaint with the Texas Workforce Commission Civil Rights Division.You also can file with the federal EEOC.
 Typically the state agency will have a form available for you to fill out that details the incident in which you claim your civil rights were violated.


If there isn't a specific form, write a letter describing the incident completely, including the date and location of the incident and who was there. Include contact information for yourself, the person you allege violated your civil rights, and any witnesses. Identify the type of discrimination that took place and the reason you believe the events you describe constituted discrimination., If you have any additional documents or the names of witnesses who will back up your claims, you should attach those to your complaint form.


Generally make sure you've included all information that would help a staff member to fully understand what happened and why you're making the complaint., Once you've completed your form, make copies of everything you plan to submit for your records, then submit it to the agency.


As with the federal government, state agencies generally require you to submit your complaint in writing.Some states may have a more expanded process. For example, before you file a complaint with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, you must first file a pre-complaint inquiry. The department will contact you within 30 days of receipt of your inquiry and schedule a phone interview. After that interview, the investigator will decide whether to accept your case for a full complaint and investigation., An agency representative will review your complaint and determine the appropriate course of action to resolve your issue.


You may be required to meet with the investigator again. You also may be required to answer written questions submitted by the other side, or to attend a mediation or other attempt to resolve the dispute short of filing a lawsuit.