 Because short-legged dogs are more likely to have problems, getting an x-ray done before she gives birth is a good idea. You'll know how many puppies she's going to have, so you'll be able to keep an eye on her while giving birth. Plus, if she's having a large puppy, your vet can go ahead and schedule a c-section if they think it's necessary., Throughout her pregnancy, it's important to feed the dog a high quality dog food, with about a third protein and 17 percent fat. It should provide about 1 to 1.8 percent calcium and 0.8 to 1.6 percent phosphorous to help her develop milk later.Ideally, the carbohydrates in the food should be low in fiber to make them more easily digestible. Similarly, the protein should be one that's easy to digest.
Often, a puppy food has the right balance, such as Hill's Science Diet Puppy Food; however, don't use a large breed formula.Often a food labelled "performance" or "active" will be a good choice.Slowly increase the amount of food she receives throughout her pregnancy. By about 5 weeks, she should have about 10 percent more, and by the time she is giving birth, she should have 15 to 25 percent more than she normally does.
 If the dog goes past her due date by a few days (usually after 63 days from breeding), consider taking the dog back to the vet. She may be having problems, and the vet will be able to tell by examining her., Short-legged dogs and other small dogs are more likely to have problems with giving birth. Therefore, it's a good idea to keep an eye on the time when they start giving birth. That is, once you start noticing signs of contractions, you should take note of the time. If they haven't given birth to a puppy in two hours, it's time to talk to the vet.Similarly, if you know how many puppies the dog is supposed to have, and the dog goes two hours between puppies, you should talk to your vet again. It's natural for dogs to take a break while whelping, but it shouldn't be more than two hours or so. If it's been more than four hours, go ahead and take the dog into the vet.At two hours, try taking your dog for a walk if she'll come. Sometimes, walking outside will help get the process going.
 You may need to give your dog assistance if she's having trouble, particularly if you can see a puppy's head that seems stuck. If she's been straining (having contractions every few minutes) for more than thirty minutes, you can see if you can help her get the puppy out.Put on latex gloves first, and then find a lubricant like KY Jelly. Rub it on your fingertips.
Check the dog's vulva for a puppy's head. Stick your fingers in, rubbing the lubricant around the puppy's head. Grasp the puppy, and move it back and forth to help it come out. You can also use a catheter-tipped syringe with some lubricant if your fingers won't fit.
You can also wrap a piece of tissue or washcloth around the puppy's head to help gently pull it out., Some discharge is natural while giving birth. However, if your dog is bleeding for more than ten minutes, you need to talk to your vet. Similarly, if you see a green fluid issuing from your dog (and you haven't seen puppies yet), you need to talk to the vet., If your dog seems especially lethargic, that could be a bad sign. Similarly, a fever above 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39.4 degrees Celsius) could also mean trouble. Talk to your vet if you notice these signs., Short-legged dogs, including many dwarf breeds, need C-sections more often than other dogs because of their diminutive size. Your vet may recommend one right off the bat, but you should also look for signs your dog may need help.For instance, if while giving birth your dog is straining (having contractions every 30 seconds or so) for 30 minutes or more without giving birth to a puppy, that's a sign that she may need some help. You should at least call the vet to see what they suggest., It can help to wipe up the dog with a damp cloth after she finishes giving birth, and then pat her dry. Also, change the bedding after she gives birth, providing fresh blankets for her and the pups., It's a good idea to take your dog to the vet within a day of giving birth. That way, the vet can look for early signs of infection. They can also check out the puppies to make sure everything is okay., Small dogs, including short-legged dogs, are more prone to low calcium than other dogs, a condition that can develop after giving birth. You may notice your dog walking with a stiff gait, or she may have muscle tremors. A fever is also common, as well as nervousness or disorientation.You may also notice that your dog lays on her side with her legs straight out.
If you notice these symptoms, take your dog to a vet.
 While infection doesn't just affect short-legged dogs, you should still keep an eye out for it. Generally, dogs will develop infection in their uterus or teats, if they are going to develop an infection. Watching for symptoms can help increase your chances of catching it early.Uterine infections usually show up in a change in discharge. Some discharge after birth is common, but it should be green, black, brown, or red. If you notice it's pale or gray in color, she could have an infection. You also shouldn't notice much of a smell, and it should flow freely, not be thick.
In her teats, you may notice swelling and redness, as well as increased pain. Her milk may change from white to green, yellow, or red, and grow thicker if she has an infection. Take her to the vet if you suspect an infection.

