 Before reschedule your job interview, try to rearrange your other plans instead. Your job interview serves as a first impression for a potential employer, so rescheduling may come off as unprofessional. If possible, rearrange the other parts of your schedule before rescheduling your job interview.;
, Rescheduling a job interview can be a huge inconvenience to everyone involved. Because of this, it's important that you contact your potential employer to reschedule at least 24 hours before your scheduled interview. When you contact your interviewer, give a brief explanation for your need to reschedule. Be as honest as possible. Give your interviewer a few alternative dates that will work for your rescheduled interview.


If you're rescheduling due to another job interview, it's best not to tell your interviewer that. Tell them you've had a work or family conflict come up, and that you'd love to reschedule your interview for another time.
If a life emergency happens and you cannot give 24 hour notice, contact your interviewer as soon as possible to let them know what happened. If it's a real emergency (you were injured, you have a family emergency, etc.), your potential employer should understand.
If you're still interested in the job, express that when you call to cancel. Say something like "I'm very sorry, but an emergency has come up and I won't be able to make our interview tomorrow. I'm still interested in the position and would be extremely grateful if we could reschedule.", When possible, make direct contact with your potential employer instead of sending an email or leaving a message. Making contact via phone will make you look like a responsible professional. Make an effort to get in touch with your interviewer in numerous ways, and only leave a message or send an email if you cannot reach them via phone.


Never send a text message to reschedule an interview, as it will make you look unprofessional.
If you end up leaving a message or sending an email, ask that your interviewer contact you to confirm they got your message.
 A job interview is normally scheduled around multiple people's schedules. Therefore, cancelling or rescheduling an interview is usually an inconvenience for multiple people. Don't assume that your interviewer's schedule revolves around you, and apologize for causing any inconvenience. Try to be flexible when you ask to reschedule your interview. If your interviewer sees that you are putting in good effort to make this interview work, they will be more likely to reschedule your interview., After you've contacted your interviewer about rescheduling, send them a personal note or email reiterating your apology and your interest in the company. Your interviewer may be frustrated or irritated by you cancelling, so use this note as an opportunity to let them know that you are genuinely sorry and would still like a chance to reschedule an interview.

