 Especially if you are just getting started with partner yoga, you may find many of the poses easier if you and your partner are of similar height and weight.Keep in mind that many partner yoga poses require you to support your partner's weight. If you can't do this, you may need to work with someone else.
Other poses require you to reach around or through each other's bodies. Being of similar size and body type will make it easier for you to reach.
 To be a good yoga partner, the person you choose must be someone with whom you have no problem sharing and communicating openly. Partner yoga will be difficult if you have problems being vulnerable with the person.In partner yoga, communication is both verbal and nonverbal. The best partners can understand nonverbal communication from their partner's body as well as they can with their own body.
Sitting together with palms touching and meditating is a good way to open up the nonverbal lines of communication.
 Partner yoga requires you and your partner to be close to one another physically. An emotional release also could result in an uncomfortable or awkward situation between you and your partner unless you are comfortable with each other physically.If either of you have particular sensitivities, you should discuss these before you start practicing together. For example, maybe the backs of your knees are extremely ticklish and you don't like being touched there.
You also need to let each other know of any injuries that might affect your ability to make certain movements or perform certain poses.
 When you and your partner are practicing yoga, generally the partner who is least flexible will take the lead on the pose. This enables them to make any adjustments that might be necessary for their comfort.You may be more flexible in some areas than others. For example, you may have open and flexible hips, but tight shoulders. If your partner was the opposite, then you would take the lead on any poses that stretched the shoulders, while your partner took the lead on any hip-opening poses.
 When doing partner yoga, you won't be able to pull off a lot of the poses unless the two of you trust each other. If you have a partner who you already know well, this may not be an issue. If your partner is a relative stranger, you have to learn to let go and allow them to support you.Finding trust requires being able to let go and accept support from your partner. This can be somewhat like the "trust exercises" in which you fall backward into someone's arms.
Don't worry if you have a hard time finding trust at first. Simply communicate with your partner and be open about your issues.

