 Store pre-made potatoes in a refrigerator until you are ready to serve. Typically, mashed potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for anywhere from 24-48 hours without impacting the consistency and taste too much. If you store mashed potatoes for longer, they will likely dry out and the flavour will become more starchy.Let potatoes cool before storing them in the refrigerator.
Cover the potatoes with plastic wrap to keep them fresh. Push the plastic wrap against the surface of the mashed potatoes in order to prevent a film from developing.
 You can also store pre-made potatoes in a vacuum sealed pack to keep them fresh. Potatoes stored this way can last up to 48 hours without losing their quality. Once you have finished cooking your potatoes and have added all ingredients, vacuum seal the potatoes. This can be done using a special vacuum sealing device. If you do not have a vacuum sealer, you can still remove all of the air from a zipper-lock bag:Place the food in the zipper-lock bag and seal the bag, leaving a small opening at one end.Dip the bag into a tub of water. The water pressure will push any excess air out of the opening you left.
Before the bag is completely submerged, seal the bag and lift out of the water. Now the food is sealed in an airtight bag and can be stored in the refrigerator or freezer.
 Place mashed potatoes in plastic wrap in an airtight container or heavy duty freezer bags. Once frozen, potatoes can be stored indefinitely at a consistent temperature of zero degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius).When you are ready to eat frozen potatoes, remove them from the freezer and thaw them in the refrigerator for 24 hours. Then re-heat them on the stove top or in the oven. Add extra dairy if they become watery., If you have decided to make the mashed potatoes a few hours before serving them, you will need to keep them warm. There are a few different ways that you can keep the mashed potatoes warm without drying them out.Place them in a slow cooker on the lowest heat/warm setting. Add extra dairy before serving if they have dried out.
Keep them in the pot you cooked them in and move them to the back of the stove. Place them over a pot of gently simmering water to keep them warm.
If you only need to keep them warm for a very short period of time, you can place them in a bowl and cover it with a towel until you are ready to serve.

