 Think about what type of scrapbook album you want to use. There are several types available, each with their own advantages. One thing to consider when deciding on a type to use is how much money and decoration you want to commit to. Here are a few of the most popular kinds:Post-bound albums are probably the most popular choice for modern day scrapbooks. They have a decorative cover, usually with a place to insert a picture, and acid-free photo safe sheet protectors ready for you to slide your paper and pictures into. You do have to buy the paper to put your pictures on separately, but this allows you to choose your own colors and designs.Scrapbooks bound with non-removable pages are nice because the album already comes with paper, but be careful because they do not always come with page protectors.Three-ring photo albums are the cheapest of the albums, but you do have to buy paper separately. You can add in acid-free photo safe sheet protectors, and then slide your finished page into the sleeve. These albums allow you to add in new pages as your scrapbook grows.;
, It is very important to buy paper that is specifically designed to preserve photos. Paper meant for scrapbooking is acid-free and lignin-free so that over-time, your photos do not break down and ruin. So whether you are buying paper to put into an empty scrapbook, or a scrapbook with paper already in it, be sure that the paper is safe for your photos., There are many different types of paper you can choose from to use for a scrapbook. Here are some of the most common types of paper used for scrapbooking:Card-stock paper is a heavy weight paper mostly used as the background of the page format.B&T (Background and Texture) paper is great to use as decoration for the background on the page. You can also use it to accent edges or as a photo mat background.Gingham paper is a popular "checker board" patterned paper used as background accents that can be used for backgrounds or accents.Vellum is translucent paper and is great to use for an elegant look. It can be placed over photos or memorabilia to "dress up" a page., Paper can help you capture the mood of the photos. If you are using black and white photos, choose an elegant paper pattern to match. If you have colorful pictures of a kid's birthday party, pick paper with a fun design.
 There are many different ways to glue and stick your photos or other decorations into a scrapbook that are safe and will not harm your photos. Be sure to check that you are using one that is safe, and do not use just anything. Here are some safe options to use:Photo tabs are rolled up inside a box and are sticky double-sided square tabs. These are cheap, easy to use, and a virtually mess-free option.Glue sticks are inexpensive and convenient to use. Watch to make sure you do not over apply the glue because it could cause your paper to warp and buckle. Just put a dab of glue at each corner and one swipe in the middle.Glue dots come on a roll and are great for adding ribbon, buttons, or other 3-D items on your page. All you have to do is press your 3-D item onto the glue dot, and then lift the dot off the roll. Then, press your item onto the page and press down. These are very sticky so be sure that you are confident about the spot you want to place your item before doing so.Foam mounting tape is a double-sided adhesive that is about 1/8" thick. This tape allows you to add dimensions to your pictures or embellishments., Head to a craft store, and look for stickers, stamps, ribbon, or other embellishments to add in your scrapbook. You can find hundreds of decorations to use for just about any theme. You can also add pieces to your scrapbook that you have at home such as ticket stubs, receipts that represent a special memory, award ribbons, drawings, or pressed flowers. Things that remind you of a great memory, and fit in your scrapbook, may be the perfect thing to use for decoration.


Another fun way to decorate is to use texturing scissors. You can find scissors that have teeth along the edges that give the edges of paper fun designs. You can purchase these at most craft stores.

