 You can also set a roasting rack over a regular pan.


Raising the pan will allow the juices to drip down as the chicken cooks.;
, This will keep the pan clean and help the chicken to cook faster.
 Set a rack in the middle of the oven.


Always make sure you cook the frozen breasts at 350 degrees Fahrenheit and above to kill any bacteria that can grow at lower temperatures.If you do not want dry roasted chicken breasts, you can place the chicken in a non-stick dish. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) to account for the fact that you will cover the dish. You will bake it for approximately the same time.
 It is not necessary to rinse the breasts or give them a water bath before cooking them., Arrange them so there is enough space between each breast.
 You will need 1 to 6 tbsp. of spices, depending upon how many chicken breasts you plan to cook.


Use salt and pepper and a little lemon, if you want a simple recipe. You can also buy pre-made spice mixes for chicken.
If you want a more tangy dish, pour barbecue sauce or another wet sauce onto the chicken breasts in your non-stick pan.
 of seasoning on one side of the chicken breasts. Then, flip the chicken breasts over using tongs to season to the other side.


Avoid touching the raw, frozen chicken with your hands. Use a cooking brush to apply any sauce on the chicken and use tongs to move the uncooked chicken around on the pan.
 Set the timer for 30 minutes, or 45 minutes if you aren’t planning to add sauce to the chicken.


Because you are cooking the chicken breasts frozen, you will need to increase the standard cooking time by 50 percent. So chicken breasts that would usually cook for 20 to 30 minutes should cook for 30 to 45 minutes if they are put in frozen.
 Brush extra barbecue sauce or marinade onto the chicken.
 Set your timer for 15 minutes.
 This is a very important step, as cooking time alone is not a reliable way to ensure the chicken is fully cooked.


Once the timer goes off and the chicken has been cooking for 45 minutes, insert the meat thermometer into the center of the breast. Once it reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius), you can take it out and serve it.

