 If you suspect that a co-worker is being bullied, you may want to start paying attention to see if there are other instances of bullying that are occurring. In addition to insults and putting down others, workplace bullying might include:

Consistently ignoring certain people in common spaces or during meetings
Excluding certain people from work social events
Spreading lies or rumors about a person
Refusing to help others when requested;
, Whenever you hear a co-worker putting another co-worker down, stand up for them. Make it clear to the bully that you have your co-worker’s back. Your co-worker’s bully may back down if you call out their behavior. Still, remember that you are in a work environment, so be professional and polite.Say something like, “I love Julie’s sweater today. There's no need to be so negative.”

, Before you take action, you should speak to the affected co-worker to see how they feel about the situation. Get their perspective on the issue. Keep in mind that while you may consider this behavior bullying, the affected co-worker may just take it as a joke or they may not care. Ask them if they want help, and respect their wishes if they do not want you to get involved.

You might say, "Hey, I've noticed that Angela has been pretty hard on you lately. Is everything ok?"

, After you witness a co-worker putting another co-worker down, you can confront the bully in a private setting. Step into their office or cubby and have a face-to-face conversation. Again, be polite and professional.


Try saying, “I heard you talking about Tom’s work today in a way that sounded condescending. From my perspective, he is the best IT person we have. How about we keep the language in the office more positive rather than negative?”
Keep your body language open and positive - hold your ground with a tall stance. Don't roll your eyes, cross your arms, or enter the other person's personal space.
 Your co-worker may need support in order to stand up to their bully. They may think that they are exaggerating the situation or being overly sensitive. Let your co-worker know that you see the bullying and that you do not think it is appropriate. Advise them to stand up for themselves or to report the bullying to a supervisor or HR. Your advice might be the support that they need to stand up to the bully.


Tell your co-worker, “I heard Matt putting you down during our meeting yesterday. I definitely thought that it was unprofessional. Have you talked to him about it?”

