 Where you stand will depend on which hand is your dominant hand. If you are right handed, you will stand at the backhand corner of the ping pong table. Put your right foot forward and bend your knees slightly. This is ready position for a serve.
You will have your racket in your right hand and will have the ball in your left hand, if you are right handed.
If you are left handed, you will stand at the front corner of the ping pong table. Put your left foot forwards and bend your knees slightly. You are now in ready position for a serve.
If you are left handed, you should serve with your racket in your left hand and the ball in your fight hand.
 International ping pong rules state that a ball must be thrown straight up into the air when it is served. You may not serve the ball directly from your hand. When you do this your hand should roughly be at chest level.
You must throw the ball into the air at least six inches, or about the height of the net.
You should not toss the ball up and forwards or up and backwards towards you. Aim to toss it straight up into the air.
 You should serve when it gets to about chest or belly level.


If you serve the ball too low, it won’t have enough height on the serve to go over the net.
If you serve the ball too high, it might bounce too high or too fast after your serve.
Hitting it about chest level or just below will allow the ball to accelerate forward and bounce off of the table and over the net.
 If you strike the ball in the wrong spot, it won’t spin or it won’t have the right type of spin. Keep your paddle at a less than 90 degree angle. Angle the paddle towards the net for a top spin.
Remember, hitting the the top part of the ball is the first part of putting topspin on a ping pong ball.
If you hit the ball at the equator, (right around the middle of the ball) it won’t have any spin, and might travel too far forward before hitting the table.
If you strike the ball from below you might put a backspin on it, but the goal here is to get a topspin.
A top spin will allow a ball to bounce on the table close to the server, away from the net.
 This will propel the ball forward quickly. Brushing is how you rub your paddle against the ball quickly as you serve or return. Brushing in different directions will cause different kinds of spin.
Remember, brushing your ball upwards and forwards will result in a topspin.
If you put a topspin on a ball during a ping pong game, it will stay low after it bounces on the table.
This will make the ball harder to hit for your opponent.
When your opponent hits a ball with a topspin, it will rebound in an upwards direction.

