 Living with ADHD is tough, but so is being in a relationship with someone who has it. Be honest with yourself and make a list of habits you have because of your condition. Seeing it may help you understand why your partner gets frustrated.


For example, are you late all of the time because you get distracted? Do you forget to fulfill commitments you’ve made? Write these traits down and then how you would feel if your partner was the one who makes these mistakes. It may help you understand where they are coming from when problems occur., One of the major symptoms of ADHD is impulsiveness and the desire for stimulation. As such, your partner may worry you are going to stray from the relationship. This insecurity from your partner may cause them to become unhappy in the relationship.


Assure your partner regularly that you are satisfied with them and that you will not become unfaithful. Consider seeking couples counseling about the situation if your partner needs additional reassurance. , It’s not your fault you have ADHD and your partner should never make you feel guilty for having it. Instead, you can work together to make the condition’s side effects more manageable for the both of you. Talk to your partner about what you can do to help the situation.


For example, you could say, “I understand some of the issues associated with my condition make the relationship difficult for you sometimes. I appreciate your patience with them. Please tell me what I can do to make this easier for you.” Although their requests may be impossible to fulfill, talking about it shows that you want to make an effort., When you have ADHD, it’s easy for you and your partner to concentrate on what you do wrong. Instead, shift the focus to what you do right. Celebrating these small victories can help you feel appreciated and encourage you to keep up the good work.


For instance, your partner could write down when you help around the house, when you play with your kids, when you organized a great party, or when you made a delicious dinner.
They can also write down their favorite traits about you, such as your laughter, your good heart, and your brilliant mind. Focusing on the positives, rather than the setbacks, could help you become closer.