 Make a list of the separate materials you will need for your project. For example, separate out the different sizes of boards that you plan to use into separate categories. You will need to calculate the amount of material in each category.As a running example, suppose you are planning to build a bookshelf. The sides of the bookshelf will be made with four 2 x 4 boards, one in each corner. The top, bottom, and three shelves in the middle are made from 1 x 12 boards. In this case, divide the building materials into two categories, 2x4’s and 1x12’s.
 After deciding which building materials you will use in your project, determine the length of each individual piece.Take care not to measure the same pieces multiple times. It can be helpful to check off each board on a sketch of your project and label each piece with its length as you go.

In the bookshelf example, suppose that the four 2x4s are each eight feet long and that the five 1x12 boards you use for the top, bottom, and shelves are all four feet long.
 You need to determine how much of each type of board to buy in order to complete your project. Add up the lengths of the pieces of each board size. Keep them apart from each other and find a separate total for each style.In the bookshelf example, since you have four eight-foot long corner pieces made from 2x4 boards and five pieces made from 1x12 boards (three shelves plus the top and bottom), you can calculate totals as follows:

2x4 boards: 8 feet times 4 boards = 32 linear feet

1x12 boards: 4 feet times 5 boards = 20 linear feet




, When you know how much of each material you need for your project, you know how much you'll hypothetically need to buy. Find the price of each type of material (per foot) and multiply by the total linear foot value obtained for the type of material to find the approximate cost of the material.In the bookshelf example, you need 32 feet of 2x4 boards and 20 feet of 1x12 boards. Suppose 2x4s sell for $1.50 per linear foot and 1x12 boards sell for $2.25 per linear foot. In this case, you would determine the costs of these materials by multiplying as follows:

 2x4 boards: $1.50 x 32 = $48

 1x12 boards: $2.25 x 20 = $45




, When it comes to building projects, one of the most widely-circulated tips of the trade is to bring slightly more material than you think you'll need. This may cost a bit more up front, but it can save time and cost overall.
