 An intervention can be either formal or informal. Regardless of the structure, the ultimate goal is to break through to someone with a drug problem, and help them notice the problems she is experiencing due to her drug use. Friends and family attend in order to provide information to the teen and offer their support and encourage him or her to get professional help.An intervention can be done alone with just family and friends. However, an addiction specialist or other mental health provider can offer both experience and guidance in planning and executing an intervention. The most successful interventions are facilitated by a professional.
 As an adult who cares for the teen, you want to see him or her get professional help. Drug addiction can be disastrous to a user's life and completely overshadow hopes and dreams for the future. Luckily, a drug intervention can help. Most addicts who undergo an intervention do eventually go into treatment.An intervention may be a necessary step if the teen continues to deny or lie about drug use despite obvious signs of an addiction problem.
It also may be helpful if the teen is unaware of how his or her negative behavior is affecting others.
 Since confronting your teen about a drug problem can be highly emotional, there needs to be a plan in place to guide the course of the intervention. First, family members will go over the extent of the drug problem and collect information about addiction and treatment programs. Then, with the help of the professional, you will set a desired outcome and decide who should participate.Usual attendees to an intervention are parents, grandparents, siblings, friends, teachers, or coaches. All of these should be individuals with whom the teen has a close relationship, and people who are concerned about her welfare.
 Once the plan and group is in place, everyone needs to develop a short script on what they will say. A professional interventionist will guide you all on what and what not to say. In general, each person will take turns discussing how the teen's drug us has affected him or her (e.g. relationship strain or financial/legal troubles). Each individual will also share their love and concern as well as the hope that the teen can get better with treatment.As a rule of thumb, attendees should keep the focus of their statement on the facts. Then, follow up with their own emotional response. Refrain from attacking the teen or bringing up issues unrelated to the drug us.
For example, a parent might say "I am really concerned about your drug use. You had an accident in the car that totaled it and could have cost you your life. I can't sleep at night, worried if the next time this happens I will lose my daughter."

, On the scheduled day of the intervention, all the loved ones will meet with the teen--he or she shouldn't know the purpose of the meeting beforehand. With the guidance of the mental health provider, each person will take turns sharing their prepared statement and presenting any consequences that will occur if the teen does not cooperate with treatment.During the intervention meeting, the attendees will also explain the proposed plan for help, such as enrolling in a drug treatment program.
 Family members and friends will have to follow through on consequences set forth during the meeting if the teen does not cooperate with treatment.


Consequences set forth during the intervention may include losing access to a vehicle or cutting off allowance. If the teen does not agree to getting needed treatment, you must follow through with these consequences, no matter how hard it is.
The point is not to punish the teen, but to show him or her that the drug problem is unacceptable and that you are serious about getting him/her professional treatment.

