 No one talks to the person sulking in the corner so open up and smile. A person who is confident attracts other confident people. The exact people who you want to become friends with to be popular at the bar. If you feel unsure and are not really that confident, fake it 'till you make it.;
, You may think you look good walking down the street at 2 in the afternoon to go grab a coffee, but remember that you are going out to a bar in which people notice what you are wearing. Don't change your style or dress in something that makes you uncomfortable, just pump it up. Remember, if you're constantly worrying about what your wearing you won't have a good time.
 The first person you should talk to at the bar is the bouncer or the coat check person. Chat them up about anything, your best bet is complimenting them on their hair or clothes. The main reason behind this that these are the people who see everything at the bar and know everyone. It also makes you more confident walking in knowing that you have a report with someone there. Bartenders are also a good. Try to order the same thing all night, they will recognize you from that repetitive behaviour.
 The best part of going to a gay bar is the music. Get up there and show your stuff. Just don't stand in the corner of the dance floor looking like you dread the thought of shaking your booty.
 If you're a girl, nothing gives you an edge like being the accessory for a hot gay guy. If your friend has been to the bar before they can introduce you to people they know, boosting your visibility. Just don't go to the bar with 10 or 20 of your friends, you will fade into the background of everyone around you. One or two friends is best, as generally if you come in a group you stay in a group the whole night. Meet everyone at the bar if you want your friends to come, it will break up the pack mentality.
 Many bars have a drag night, find out when it is and go. If the bar has a resident Drag Queen she will most likely be hosting the night, after the show go up and introduce yourself while telling her that you liked the show. Be careful though most Queens have claws. Don't hang her the whole night, say you liked the show, maybe buy her a drink and then leave and do your own thing.
 Most people will be nice and chat you up back. This is great way to make friends and maybe even get a drink or two. Remember to smile.

