 These are available at most spas, and involve the use of several different cleansers, masks, and extraction tools to reduce acne on your face. If you don’t feel comfortable with having an esthetician work on your face, visit your dermatologist for a more medically-oriented facial.
 A facial peel is a specialized gel containing acid that dissolves dead skin and bacteria cells. Getting these on a regular basis can greatly reduce acne over time in addition to your regular skincare regimen.
 This is a process by which your skin is “sanded” away to produce new skin growth. Getting microdermabrasion treatments once a week over several months is the most effective route to take, as each treatment only affects the outermost layer of skin.
 That’s right - use lasers to kill off your acne. Many dermatologists now offer a treatment in which they use lasers to fire strong blasts of light to kill overactive oil-producing glands beneath your skin. This process can be painful, but has been shown to cut down acne 50% on average.
 Unlike painful laser treatments, light treatments use milder pulses of light fired off by a specialized wand to help kill bacteria. Certain colors of light (including red, green, and blue) have shown to have a positive effect on killing acne. Ask your dermatologist if getting a light treatment is a good choice for you., Certain medications can be prescribed by your dermatologist to help with particularly bad cases of acne, but should be used with caution. As with all medications, there may be unwanted side-effects in a small portion of the population.


Going on a specialized form of birth control (for women) can help to regulate hormones which may be producing your bad acne. Ask your dermatologist if this seems like a good option for you to take.
In particularly troublesome cases of acne, a specialized drug known as accutane can be prescribed. This is an incredibly intense retinoid treatment that has shown to almost completely remove all acne in users. However, it has the most serious side-effects of any acne-fighting drug and should be used with extreme caution.

