 Tell yourself you have to do this, but it isn't so much a requirement as it is a chance to have fun.;
, Are you nervous? Terrified? Totally calm? Indifferent? Whatever emotion you're feeling will affect the quality of your speech. This is why it is important to clam yourself and set those emotions aside.
 You will develop more confidence as you do this, and less confident when concentrating on "how you feel" in this new situation. If you are too fearful of presenting it, then you will not be able to get your message across to the group effectively.
 An invitation to speak indicates that your message is meaningful to your audience. Do not try to be someone you're not and speak words that are not yours or use an unnatural tone. Be yourself, smile and have confidence in yourself.
 This is if you have time, of course. If not, simply practice in front of a mirror, with family members and friends. The mirror will help you learn how to relax yourself, and a live practice audience will tell you how to improve, if necessary.
 Do not focus on what not to do. That would be like playing a ball game and watching for where the ball isn't. Think about all the things you are supposed to do. Certain websites can help you find tips on public speaking.]

, From time to time things happen to make you feel less confident. It's about being aware of this and getting back on the task of delivering the message as best you can. This awareness will come with practice and allow you to become a better speaker.
 However, there are some tricks that can help you avoid the nerves associated with looking out over the audience.
 It provides a small sense of security while you're in the spotlight. Whether you are holding piece of paper, the podium or a book. Practice will make this less noticeable and will look more relaxed to the audience. The more relaxed you appear, the easier it is for the audience to become engaged in your topic.
 Toastmasters, for example, is a well-recognized group where you can learn speech skills. Look up local speech groups in your phone book or internet. Find one that suits your personality the best. These groups can make a huge difference in your speech capabilities.

