 Choose the image you want and zoom in so that the hair fills the screen. You should have your layers box, the little window that shows what layer you're working on, open as well.


If the layers window is not open, press the Ctrl and L keys simultaneously to bring it back.;
, These layers are clear overlays that let you adjust the image without damaging or changing the original photo. Once you've made it, click and drag it in the Layers window so that it is above your picture. You can make a transparency layer in several ways:


Click the little white paper icon in the bottom left corner of the layers window. Chose "transparency" under Layer Fill Type.
Click on Layers → New Layer from the bar at the top of the screen. Choose "transparency" under Layer Fill Type., The path tool looks like an old fountain pen. You use it to create a detailed, point by point outline on your image. Zoom into the hair and start clicking at the top, following the curve of your hair and face until you reach the starting point. When you're done you should have only your hair outlined and encircled by the path tool. As you work with the hair, anything within this path will change color once you start coloring.


For detailed, precise work, zoom in as close as possible to make your path perfect. If you're only doing this as a test or for fun you can be a little looser with the work.Don't worry about an odd strand or small, impossible to trace tufts. You can color those in later, by hand, if you need.
 A path is a versatile, editable line. A selection is the current area of the picture you're working on, meaning that any edits made outside the selection (in this case, your hair), won't show up. To create a selection, click "Selection" → "From Path" from the top bar.


You can also press Shift and V simultaneously to create a selection from your path.
 Set you foreground color near where you want the picture's final color. In general, the final shot will be a merge between the color you selected and the color of the original hair, but you can adjust the exact color later to get the one you want. For now, choose a common color, like brown, and select it as your foreground color.The color selector is the set of two overlapping squares of color in your Toolkit. To adjust one, double-click the foremost square.
To make crazy, vibrant changes, go to Colors → Hue-Saturation. Adjust the hue to drastically change your hair color into a clown-like shade, no matter how dark it is., Right now, the picture will look like a terrible Photoshop job, with a solid block of color where your hair should be. This will soon be merged into the image below as a realistic hair coloring.


You can also use this mode to see if you've missed anything. If you want, use a paintbrush to coat any missed hairs in your new color.
 Return to the layer's window and make sure your transparency layer is selected. Then click on the drop-down menu for "Mode" and select "Overlay." This will take the color and imprint it on the image below it, merging the colors while keeping the same shadows and highlights from the original image. You can play with other modes as well, such a Multiply (which leads to a darker hair color, overall) to find one that fits perfectly.


Turn down the layer's opacity to bring the new color closer to the old one. This is a good, quick way to fine-tune your new coloring.
Remember that this is only an overlay. If you deleted the transparency layer at any point you would return to your original image., Once you've made the layer, you can use the bucket to drop in new colors and instantly change your hair color. Play with the opacity and image mode until you get the digital dye-job you were hoping for.Remember to use the Hue and Saturation feature before coloring if you're having trouble with dark hair, or want a more comically bright color like pink or green.
 The biggest issue when changing hair color is the skin underneath. If the hair is thin or splayed out the skin underneath is exposed and accidentally changed colors, leading to unnatural lines and an obvious editing job. Luckily, you can use the eraser to perfect your lines. Simply set the eraser to a gentle dot with faded edges -- a soft brush. Lower the opacity to 20%, then slowly erase away a little bit of your transparent layer where the hair meets your scalp. This removes 20% of the coloring with each pass, allowing you to adjust it slowly so that it looks natural.


You can use a paintbrush, set to the same color as your transparent layer, to do similar detail work. You can zoom in and "paint" the hair your new color by hand. You will need to deselect your selection area (Ctrl + K) to paint outside of the outline, however.If you're really talented you can use the brush and eraser to put in highlights, or add new colors to your haircut.