 Writing 750 words a day for any length of time can be psychologically difficult, a challenge, and a large time commitment. Prepare yourself mentally for the new challenge that you are taking on in whatever way you feel necessary, whether it be motivational notes, reminders, or lists of goals stuck up somewhere.

Think about the reasons that make this a worthwhile exercise to you. Some of the reasons might include the importance of recording your daily thoughts, the value of daily self-discipline, and the benefit to your wellbeing of getting things out of your system and into words on a page. (This often creates order from chaos.);
, This can be beneficial if you lack motivation, or if you keep forgetting to write. You can do this under "Settings" --> "Your info".
 You can do this at: http://750words.com/one_month. If you're a competitive person or someone who likes tangible evidence of achievement, this may give you the motivation to continue writing when you're not feeling like it.
 If there is a specific badge that you would like to see on your page it may give you the motivation to continue working to earn it. You can see a range of badges at: http://750words.com/badges.
 You can do this via the icons at the bottom of your daily statistics page. If you know other people are aware of your failures and successes at maintaining a writing streak, then you may want to ensure there are fewer failures!

, Maybe you would also like to achieve a year-long streak like some of these people giving thanks on the page. See the page at: http://750words.com/statistics.
 It can be any time of the day. This helps you to form a habit of daily writing so that it does not become a grind. Keep the following things in mind:


See the benefits in daily writing. Use it for therapeutic, thought organization, and inner tranquillity.
Enjoy the sense of purpose that comes with daily writing. Think about previous writing and what you have gained through reading your past written thoughts and how much you tend to grow through daily writing.
Enjoy it simply because you love to write.
 Only you can motivate yourself to stick to this challenge and write every day. However, many people find that the higher their streak goes, the more addictive it becomes to persevere with it and reach greater heights with your writing.

