 Once you’ve determined what’s causing your dog to bark, work on removing the incentive.


Your dog barks because it experiences some kind of reward from that behavior. If you remove that payoff, your dog will lose incentive to bark.For example, if your dog barks at passersby while in the house, close the blinds or curtains to block their view. If your dog barks at passersby while in the yard, bring the dog inside when it begins barking at someone., When beginning to re-train your dog, you need to start by not reacting to the barking. Dogs interpret your yelling at them or telling them to stop as attention, which in and of itself reinforces the behavior, regardless of whether you’re angry at or scolding your dog.When your dog barks, don’t acknowledge it in any way. Don’t look at your dog, talk to your dog, pet your dog, and definitely don’t feed or give your dog treats.
Be aware that you dog's barking will get worse before it gets better if you need to break an existing habit. When you fail to react after your dog is used to you responding to barking, then the dog will interpret that as a need to bark more because it didn’t work. Avoid the urge to acknowledge the barking in any way.
You may want to explain to neighbors that you are trying to stop the barking issue and apologize for the inconvenience in the meantime. If they understand you are trying to do something constructive—rather than just being incredibly irritating—hopefully they will be more sympathetic.
 As soon as your dog stops barking, wait a minute to ensure that the dog doesn’t confuse the reason why, and then reward the silence with a treat. If you do this consistently, then your dog will begin to understand that the barking does not receive a reward but the quiet does.


Your dog will begin to associate being quiet with receiving a treat. As that happens, begin to lengthen the amount of time the dog must be quiet before receiving a reward.
If you are utilizing clicker training with your dog, then remember to mark the silence with a click before rewarding the quiet.
 When your dog begins to bark, redirect it to do something that will distract it from the stimulus.


Telling your dog to lie down is a good way to redirect, as it won’t be construed as a reward for barking.
When you dog lies down quietly, reward it with a treat--but only once it’s quiet.
 While in the process of re-training your dog, keep your dog out of hearing range of the neighbors as much as possible to minimize nuisance.


Keep in touch with your neighbors and let them know you’re aware of your dog’s barking and are working to fix the problem.
Having your neighbors on your side is the best way to maintain good will and avoid nuisance calls.