 It can be any face paint as long as it has colors that match your environment. You can use wet ashes for black. You can buy camo face paint on Amazon. You can get sticks of camo paint or get a compact. Make sure any pack you get has a light, medium, and dark color with it, for example tan, green, and black. You can get decent camo paint for about $12.If you plan on going in the water (amphibious operations), get grease face paint so that it won't come off.;
, Pick the colors you'll need to blend into where you will be hiding. In forests use green, black, and brown; in deserts use tan, brown and light green; in snow use grey, green and white; in an urban environment use brown, black and grey.If you are going out at night, you can simply paint your face black to blend in.
 Camouflage your eyes, nose, temples, and lower lip with light brown or tan (if not using these colors, simply apply the lightest color you are using). This will obscure the lighter areas of your face and break up your facial pattern, making your face harder to recognize. Make a large rectangle around your eyes so that people don’t see your eye circles. Apply a small amount under your nose in an oval and a small circle under your lower lip. Make sure these are all uniformly colored in.Make sure not to get any paint in your eyes! Exercise caution when painting around your eye area.
 Use a medium green or olive shade on your forehead, cheeks and each side of your chin. Draw a large rectangle on your forehead, two small vertical rectangles on each cheek directly beside your nose, and two small circles on each side of your chin. This will help disguise your facial pattern and obscure areas that are likely to be shiny due to sweat.Instead of a medium green shade, use tan in a desert or grey paint in an urban or snowy environment.
 Use black or dark brown. On the outside of your forehead, draw a square on each side. Draw a medium sized circle on each cheek in the center of the cheek. Draw a small oval on the bottom of your chin in the center. This will further break up the pattern of your face.Covering these areas with darker paint is important because it helps to flatten your face. When your face appears as a flat image, it is difficult to detect., Use your index and middle fingers to lightly rub the paint together so that it gradually transitions from one shade to another. The shapes that you drew should be indistinguishable and have a feathered, airbrushed look., Paint a disruptive pattern on your face on top of the paint. The pattern can help you to blend into the specific area around you, so choose a pattern for your specific location. Use a color based on your surroundings, like a green if you are in the forest. Then blend it in with your fingers so that the pattern doesn’t stand out. This will simulate the texture of your surroundings.In a temperate deciduous forest, use blotches; in a coniferous forest, use a broad slash; in a jungle, use a broad slash; in a desert, use a slash; in the arctic, use blotches; and in grass or an open area, use a slash., Paint your ears a darker color since they stick out and you will want them to appear flat. Use dark green or black. Use lighter colors on your neck such as tan and olive. You can paint a blotch or slash pattern with lighter colors, depending on your location. The important thing is for all of your skin to be covered.If you have a bald head, cover that as well. Use darker colors so that it doesn’t reflect sunlight., When you sweat a lot or your face becomes oily, the paint will begin to wear off. When this happens, wash off your current paint with soap and water or makeup remover and reapply. If this isn’t possible, you can add dust or mud to the shiny areas to disguise them until you can reapply your face paint.