 If possible, get your neighborhood involved. Harmful things like herbicides, oil, and garbage can travel hundreds of miles through waterways and end up in reef ecosystems. By limiting the amount of runoff and garbage polluting your own neighborhood, you can help cut down on the runoff and pollution that eventually reaches the ocean and damages coral reefs.A plastic bag you might toss aside in the middle of a city could still find its way to the ocean—via storm drains and waterways, even garbage generated far from the oceans can potentially end up there., Whether this means making your washing loads fuller, your showers shorter, or fixing that leaky faucet you've had for years, make it happen. With less water wasted, the less runoff water there will be to return to and pollute the oceans., Coral reefs are extremely sensitive to global warming. With more fossil fuels being put into the atmosphere, the more global warming occurs. When the sea water temperatures rises, even just one or two degrees, coral bleaching can occur. This is when a reef releases the algae that lives inside of it. This algae is what gives the reef its color, so losing it causes the coral to appear white, hence being called “bleached.” Although reefs can sometimes recover from these episodes, it can take several months to years for it to be restored. More often, though, the coral dies after bleaching.Carpool, walk, bike, or take public transportation as much as you can. Upgrade your home appliances for newer, energy efficient ones. Turn off lights when they aren’t in use, and unplug devices when you aren’t using them. Consider cutting animal products out of your diet—the resources it takes to raise cattle, for example, have had detrimental impacts on the environment., There are many methods of fishing that can cause a huge negative impact on the ocean, including dynamite fishing and poison fishing.These methods can damage coral reefs along with all the life inside it. Find ways to protest against these fishing methods, either through joining an existing protest organization or starting one yourself.You can also sign internet-based petitions to end these kinds of fishing, or support existing local efforts. Do a little research into your local area to see what options there are for joining up., Avoid purchasing products that may have come from coral reefs. For example, avoid buying dry coral, which is often chipped off the live reef, or buying tropical fish that were caught in the wild.These fish were important components of coral reef ecosystems. Removing them from their natural habitats can be detrimental to coral, and to the fish species at large.