 Place a small skillet over medium heat and allow to heat for about three minutes. After heated, spray the skillet lightly with olive oil cooking spray., Spray a round, aluminum biscuit cutter with the olive oil cooking spray, then place the biscuit cutter in the skillet. Try to use a 2 ½ inch or 3 inch (6.35 cm or 7.6 cm) round metal biscuit or cookie cutter. The aluminum cutter will help the egg to keep its shape when it’s baking., Crack the egg and carefully pour it into the biscuit cutter. You can also crack the egg into a bowl and whisk it, then pour it into the biscuit cutter if you want the yolk to be blended with the egg whites., Cut a piece of aluminum foil that is slightly larger than the biscuit cutter, then place the foil on top of the biscuit cutter. Shape the foil around the aluminum cutter so it stays in place, then cook the egg for 3-4 minutes.
 While the egg is cooking, slice the English muffin in half and place it in the toaster. Remove the muffin once it has finished toasting, even if it finishes before the eggs are done!If you are cooking the English muffin in the toaster oven or in your regular oven, you can place the slice of cheese on one piece of the muffin so that it melts.
To toast the English muffin in a regular oven, preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (176 degrees C), then place the muffin on a baking sheet inside the preheated oven and bake for ten minutes., Remove the foil after 3-4 minutes and check on the egg. By this time, the whites should be set and the yolk should still be a little soft. If you prefer a firmer yolk, keep cooking for another minute., Use tongs to remove the biscuit cutter from the skillet as it will be hot and could burn your fingers! Then use a spatula to transfer the cooked egg to a plate. Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper., Place the slice of Canadian bacon on the already heated skillet. Let the bacon cook for about one minute, then flip it over and cook it on the other side for another minute. If the bacon is not crispy after two minutes, keep cooking until it is crispy., If you have not already melted the cheese onto the English muffin, place the slice of cheese on the bottom half of the muffin. Then place the bacon and egg on top of the cheese, and finally put the top of the English muffin onto the sandwich. Serve immediately.