 In order for you to work two part-time jobs, they need to occur at different times. Search out part-time work in your area through various channels. Look for jobs that occur on different days of the week, or different times of day. Another option is to find one job that involves working from home. You may try online resources (like Monster, Glassdoor, or Career Builder), look on Craigslist, or search in your local newspaper. Carefully follow the instructions on the job calls, submit the necessary materials, and with any luck, participate in some interviews.


Be strategic with the jobs you select.
Two very different jobs will give you more variety and keep you on your toes.Two very similar jobs may help you if you’re on a specific career path.Be sure you are looking for part-time work.;
, The smoothest way to accomplish working two part-time jobs is to figure out, and maintain, a consistent schedule. If you can keep your schedule the same from week to week, working both jobs will become a comfortable routine., It may be tempting to try and keep your jobs secret from one another. However, if your employers and/or clients are aware that you’re working multiple jobs, they can give you the time you need to get things done. They may be more respectful of your schedule. They may view you as an even harder worker.Make sure each employer understands that you can only work part-time from the beginning.
The sooner you inform your employers of one another, the better. You may consider mentioning it in your interview.
You may say, "Will it be possible to maintain a consistent work schedule? I work Mondays and Wednesday evenings for , so I will not be available. On Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays you will have my full attention."

, If you’re not able to keep a consistent schedule from week to week (or even if you are), it is a fantastic idea to sit down and plan your whole week in advance. Use a paper planner, or an online one, to pencil in both jobs, commuting times, breaks, and any other obligations or chores. Use different colors for various activities to help keep you organized., It is important to resist overlapping your jobs and trying to do both at once (such as being logged into a telecommuting job, while on the clock at your office job). Combining jobs may seem like an efficient use of time, but in actuality, you will make mistakes and both jobs will suffer.