 By treating them with respect, taking care of your responsibilities, and displaying obedience, they’ll know that they can trust you. That means when you come to them with a problem with your sibling, your parents will be more likely to take you seriously and believe your side of the story., It’s important to stay calm when you’re describing the situation to your parents, so stick to the facts without getting overly emotional. If you’ve attempted to resolve the problem on your own, explain the steps that you’ve taken and your sibling’s reaction.


Be specific. Instead of offering a vague complaint like "John is being a jerk," say "John keeps interrupting me when I'm trying to study, and this test counts for 20 percent of my grade."
Talk to your parents when they’re not busy or distracted. If they’re in a good mood and more willing to listen to you, they can appropriately deal with the situation.
 If your sibling understands that he will be punished if he continues to behave in a problematic way, it may discourage him from bothering you. Have your parents explain the specific types of punishment your sibling can expect if he continues to annoy you (or you annoy him). Once everyone understands the consequences in your home, it may be easier to avoid conflict., Sometimes, your sibling may annoy you because you are forced to spend too much time together. It may not be practical to ask your parents for your own room, but you can still request some space and time alone when you need it.If you share a room with your sibling, have your parents set up a schedule so you each get some time alone in the room each week. Do the same with common spaces, such as the family room, den, or game room.
 You may be able to avoid conflicts with your sibling if you clear the air regularly. Ask your parents to hold weekly or monthly meetings so you can air grievances and share concerns.If you want to make the meetings more fun, ask your parents to plan them around activities, such as baking cookies or sharing a meal. That can help everyone feel relaxed, so you’re all more comfortable.

