 Let's face it, time does heal wounds. You can’t expect to be buddies right after learning of an affair or some other act of betrayal. Chances are, you both have lot of unhappy feelings floating around that you need to deal with. Rushing things could make them resent you, cutting down of your chances of staying friends in the future.Give them time alone. Don't call them every day or text them every hour. You may think you need to let the other person know how sorry you are, and you'll want to contact your ex. However, your ex will likely be too upset to be in contact with you right now.;
, While you're taking time apart, it's important to spend time working on other (non-romantic) relationships. Call up old friends that you may have neglected a bit while in your relationship. Spend time with your family. Building up other relationships will take some of the pressure off of being friends with your ex, as you have other people to lean on.This time spent working on other friendships helps you see yourself as a single person, rather than a couple. When you do try to befriend your ex, you'll have an easier time being in a friendship as independent people.
 You need to take time to build yourself back up as an individual again, and that also means exploring interests that may have lain dormant while you were in a relationship. Pick old hobbies back up by working on them a little bit each week or joining a club in your community.You can also explore new interests, ones you've always found fascinating but never had time to explore.
Consider getting books from the library to learn more or taking classes on your hobby at a local community college, through your parks and rec department, or from a local museum.
Exploring hobbies can help you establish yourself as an individual, which is important in building a friendship apart from the couple you were together.
 Going through a breakup will likely leave you wanting to hang out on the couch with some ice cream and a few movies. While that's okay for a day or two, you need to push yourself to get up after that. You need to get up and get moving, staying with your regular routine. Doing so will help you move on and regain independence.Make sure you are getting your regular exercise in. If swimming is your thing, go swimming. If you like yoga, make it a regular practice.
Also, don't forget to eat healthy. Eating healthy will make your body feel better, which in turn will make you feel better.
 Often, when you have a breakup, especially if you're the one being broken up with, you think that you can't actually live without the other person. In that case, you may want to strike up a friendship. While having a friendship with the person is fine, developing your own sense of self is important, and that starts with changing the way you think about the relationship.For example, if you think, "I can't live without my partner," change that thought to "I absolutely can live without my partner. I don't need her to stay alive. I need food and shelter and air and relationships, but this one relationship is not the sole focus of my life."

, If you want to have a friendship with your partner, you can't go back to them with all the hurt and anger you ended the relationship with. That means that you need to do some hard emotional work before talking to your partner again and letting go of some of the hurt and anger.Allow yourself to grieve each day that you need to, but only allow yourself so much time each day, such as half an hour. That gives you the space to work through your feelings, while not letting you dwell on them too much.Give yourself some outlets for grieving. Maybe you need to talk about it with a friend or write in a journal. Another option is writing a letter to your ex that you don't send, where you talk about how the relationship made you feel in the end. You need to find some way to work through the emotions your dealing with.
 The first step in moving towards a friendship is contacting the person again. Your ex may not be that receptive at first, so you may need to be persistent in contacting the person, moving through various channels. Let them know you'd like to talk to them in person. Tell them what the conversation is about, so they can be prepared.You could say or write, "Would you like to have lunch or coffee sometime? I'd really like to clear the air between us and discuss the possibility of being friends."
Having the conversation in person is important because it gives you both the ability to read each other's emotions.
Try calling first and setting up a time when you can talk. You may need to write the person a text or email to get their attention, especially if they are screening your calls.
 It takes two to tango. No relationship ends or lasts because of just one person. Both of you need to take responsibility for your actions and apologize for them. Apologies can be difficult, especially right after you break up, which is why waiting is so important. It gives you the distance you need to apologize freely and genuinely.Admit what you did in the relationship that helped cause the breakup. Look at your own thoughts and actions and acknowledge that you did do something wrong.
Apologize for the mistake. Saying “I’m sorry” is not enough. It is best to identify what you are sorry for and explain your reasons for behaving as you did. For instance, you could say, "I'm sorry for the problems I caused in our relationship. I know I was distant at times, and I take full responsibility for that. Maybe if I had been more attentive, we could have worked things out."
Don't be upset if the person doesn't apologize. You can't force an apology, and you're apologizing for what you did wrong, which should be given freely. It shouldn't be a trade to get an apology back. However, if the other person doesn't apologize, you may not be ready to be friends.
 You need to get what you want out in the open. Talk about how you see your relationship moving forward. You need clear boundaries for a relationship because you don't want to fall back into old habits. Of course, that means you need to have a clear understanding of what you want out of the relationship.For example, you may want to stay friends because you've been friends for such a long time. In that case, you may want to return to the friendship you had, if possible. You could say, "I know we've hurt each other, and I feel bad for the part I played in that. However, we've been friends so long that I don't want to lose you completely. I know it may take us a while, but I'd like to try to go back to the friendship we had before we started dating."
On the other hand, maybe you just want to stay in touch with the person without seeing them weekly. For instance, you could say, "I still feel very hurt by what happened, and I know you do, too. I know we may not be able to be best of friends for a period of time, but do you think we can keep in touch? For example, do you think we could remain friends on social media?"

, You've stated your goal. Now it's time to let your ex talk. They may or may not want the same thing as you, and you may have to compromise or give up on friendship for the moment. The important thing is you both have a chance to put forward how you see the relationship going.For instance, you could say, "Well, I've said my bit. What are you thinking? Do you think we could be friends? Or do you think we need to close that door completely?"

, Once you've figured out how to be friends, it's important to skip the old arguments. You aren't here to change each other anymore. You need to let those arguments go because you aren't going to fix anything by having them again.For example, if you notice your ex is spending money recklessly, once a point of contention between you two, just bite your tongue. It's not your place to say anything anymore.
You also may want to make this boundary clear. For example, you could say, "I'm glad we've agreed to be friends. However, can we agree not to revisit old arguments? I promise not to needle you about spending money if you promise not to lecture me about my eating habits."

, One important indicator that makes it easier to be friends after a relationship is whether or not you were friends before the relationship started. In other words, if you had practice being just friends already, that makes it easier to do so after a relationship because you already know how to act around each other in that capacity.
 Another way to determine if you can still be friends is to consider how your relationship went while you were dating. That is, if your relationship was very volatile and both of you were unhappy most of the time, you're less likely to maintain a friendship post-breakup. However, if you were both fairly happy but found that you just wanted different things, then you're more likely to survive as a friendship.
 If only one of you wanted to break up, that means the other still wants to be close. If that's the case, then you may want to avoid friendship or at least wait a while before trying to be friends. Otherwise, it will just cause a great deal of hurt to the person who wants to be more than friends.On the other hand, if you both agreed it was time to break up, that may make it easier to stay friends.
 Sometimes, you still want to be friends with an ex because you have other motives than friendship, usually having to do with getting back together. For instance, maybe you always want to keep the person "ready" as a backup if you don't find anyone else to be in a relationship with. These types of ulterior motives make for bad friendships, and you'll only end up hurting each other more because you will both have trouble moving on.Another example is if you think the other person will eventually change to a more compatible person. If he or she didn't change when you were in a relationship, you're not likely to change him or her after the fact.
 At the end of the day you two might not be ready to be friends. Some people are never ready to forgive. If they don't want you in their lives, what's so great about them that you need them in yours? You've given them a chance to be friends with you, if they are willing to give that up, chances are, they aren't worth your efforts or your friendship in the first place.