 Trace the cake pan onto a sheet of contact paper, then cut it out. Peel the backing off of the contact paper, then insert it into the pan. Make sure that the sticky side is facing upwards.The sticky side of the contact paper will hold your tiles in place while you pour the cement.
 Press the tiles firmly onto the contact paper so that they don't move. Make sure that you leave small gaps between the tiles and that the backs of the tiles are facing you.You don't have to use just mosaic tiles. You can also use seashells, glass gems, and pieces of broken china for a more interesting look.
 Be careful not to touch or disturb the tiles. The Vaseline will make it easier to remove the finished stepping stone.
 Each cement will be a little different, so be sure to follow the manufacturer's instructions closely. Also, make sure that you wear gloves, a dusk mask, and safety goggles to protect yourself from the dust. The cement is ready for pouring when it feels like porridge.Consider saving some unmixed cement for later. If your stepping stone has any gaps or cracks, you can use this excess cement to fill them in.
 For a stronger stepping stone, fill the cake pan with 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of cement first, then insert some chicken wire. Add another 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of cement on top. Smooth the cement down with a trowel.Be sure to cut the chicken wire to a heart shape first using wire cutters.
 This will release any air bubbles that might have been trapped inside the cement. Any trapped air bubbles can weaken the stepping stone., Depending on how dry or humid it is in your area, this can take 2 to 3 days.Do not touch or disturb the stepping stone while the cement is drying. This does not include the curing time.
 Turn the cake pan upside down onto a flat surface; the stepping stone should slide right out. If it doesn't, you make have to wiggle and tap the pan until the stepping stone comes out.
 If there are any gaps in your piece, you can fill them in with extra cement. You will need to mix up more cement for this, then rub it into the gaps using circular motions.When you are done, wipe off any excess cement with a damp cloth or towel.
 Once the cement has cured, you can brush on some clear, glossy varnish. This will help protect your work and make it last longer. It may also help bring out the colors of the tiles.
 Dig a shallow, heart-shaped hole in the soil, then push the stepping stone into it. Pat the soil around the stone, and brush off any excess dirt off the tile work.

