 Drinking or applying green tea to your skin may help to reduce acne. Green tea may also help reduce the amount of oil that your skin produces, fight bacteria, heal affected areas, and reduce stress related hormones in your body. Try using green tea in some of the following ways to help fight acne:Drinking up to six cups of green tea every day can help reduce acne. Drink decaf green tea if you are sensitive to caffeine.
You can brew green tea, allow it to cool, and then apply it to your face using a cotton ball.
Lotions with 2% green tea extract have been studied and shown to be useful in treating acne.;
, Tea tree oil may also help to fight acne, especially during a major outbreak. If you are currently having an outbreak of acne, try applying a gel with around 5% tea tree oil to your face. This may help with inflammation and reduce the duration of the outbreak. These tea tree oil gels should only ever be used topically and only during an outbreak.Tea tree oil may also reduce redness and prevent bacterial growth.
Tea tree oil treatments may work more slowly than treatments containing 5% benzoyl peroxide.
Tea tree oil may have some side effects. These include contact dermatitis and a possible worsening of rosacea.
 Jojoba and carrot seed oils may be helpful in healing the skin and preventing excess oil production. The jojoba oil is thought to be responsible for removing excess oil, while the carrot seed oil can help restore and heal affected areas. Try making a mixture of these two oils using the following recipe:Take one ounce of jojoba oil.
Add a few drops of carrot seed oil to the jojoba oil.
Apply a few drops to your face. Use only a small amount when applying the oil to your skin.
 Using a topical mixture of honey, cinnamon and nutmeg has been found effective in treating acne. This mixture is applied to the face, either as a mask or only to affected areas. These three ingredients all work to reduce inflammation, prevent infection, and heal the skin. Use the following recipe to make your own mixture at home:You need one teaspoon of ground cinnamon, one teaspoon of ground nutmeg, and one teaspoon of honey.
Mix them together in a paste.
Apply this mixture to either the entire face or affected areas.
Wear this for no more than one half hour.
 Aloe vera can be a useful plant when you are trying to prevent or heal acne outbreaks. In some studies, aloe vera significantly increased the effects of other treatments. Aloe vera may also help heal the skin after an outbreak occurs. Try applying aloe vera to help speed along recovery and prevent further acne outbreaks.Fresh aloe vera is the best option. Break a leaf of aloe vera open and use the gel that comes from it for best results.
Leave the aloe vera gel on your face for around three to five minutes.
Wash the area and apply an oil-free moisturizer.

