 It is legal to purchase a house in the U.K. without the help of a solicitor or conveyancer. However, you can only do so if you are not taking out a mortgage.Going alone is also difficult. You might find that you need to hire a solicitor or conveyancer to get answers to questions that you have. In this situation, you might be better off hiring a professional from the start.
 If you proceed without a solicitor, then you are responsible for drafting your own contract. The seller’s solicitor will also draw up a draft contract, which will be sent to you.You can then use this contract as the starting point.


Read the draft contract closely. You will want to make sure that it contains all of the terms that you agreed to with the seller. For example:

price
any promised repairs or additions to the property
the length of the lease, if the property is a leasehold


Raise objections. If you see something in the contract that is wrong, then contact the seller’s solicitor. You might have to go back and forth many times, amending the contract each time.
 After you make an offer, you need to perform several property searches. At a minimum, you should perform the following:Local authority search. This search will reveal what plans the authority has for your property. For example, there might be a plan to build a road. You should search before signing the contract. Local authority searches cost £70-400 and can take six weeks to obtain.

Chancel search. This search is necessary to uncover whether there are potential medieval liabilities on the property which were meant for church repair. You should check to see if the liability has been listed on the land register.

Environmental search. You should get this search to uncover contaminated land, including landfill sites. The search also provides detailed flooding predictions and ground stability issues. You can get this from either Groundsure or Landmark and costs £50-60.

Water authority search. This costs around £50-75 but is necessary in order to find out where you get your water and where public drains are located.
 You will need copies of the “title register” and the “title plan.” You can get these at the Land Registry. Both documents show that the seller owns the property.


Each document costs £3., Instead of relying on a solicitor or conveyancer to exchange contracts with the seller’s solicitor, you should contact the solicitor yourself. Schedule a time to read the contracts to each other.


If the contracts are the same, then you can sign your copy and slip it in the post, addressed to the seller’s solicitor., You will need to contact your bank to make plans for transferring the purchase price to the seller on completion day. You should contact the bank as soon as possible to work out any snags that might come up.

