 If you use a desktop computer, store your computer tower on a high desk or behind a sealed cabinet that is raised. This will prevent your child from touching the computer tower and protect them from hurting themselves.As well, if you use a printer or a paper shredder, make sure it is also well out of reach of your child on a high surface. You can secure your electronics with safety straps so they are not at risk of falling and injuring your child.;
, You can find keyboard, computer, and printer covers at your local electronics store. Using covers will prevent your equipment from being damaged by spills and sticky fingers in your workspace.Try to remember to always cover your keyboard, computer, and printer before you leave the room in the event your child wanders into your home office or too close to your equipment.
 Many children are fascinated by keyboards and will press all the buttons when given the chance. Use a password to protect and lock your computer when you’re away from your desk so your files are not at risk in the event your child gets their hands on your keyboard., Make sure your drawers and cabinets are hard to access by using door stops on cabinet doors and locks on drawers. You can also put safety strips on your drawers so they are difficult for your child to open and go through.


If you have big storage units or cabinet units in your office, make sure they are secure and cannot tip over easily., Avoid shocking and choking hazards by taping any loose electrical cords to the ground with electrical tape and zip tying any extra cord lengths. You should also use safety plug covers on all your unused electrical outlets so your child’s fingers cannot get in there.


You can also buy safety covers for your power strips at your local electronics store to prevent your child from touching the power strips.
 Prevent your child from injuring themselves on sharp edges by putting safety covers on the corners of your office furniture. You can also push furniture with sharp edges against the wall so there are less hazards in the room, or remove them from the room.Consider replacing your existing furniture with items that have rounded edges instead of sharp corners, or that are made of soft material that will not pose a hazard to your child.
 Keep office supplies like tape, printer ink, and letter openers out of reach so your child cannot hurt themselves or make a mess in your office. Place all office supplies in drawers that are secured with safety stripes.You should also use a trash can with a lid so your child is deterred from looking through your garbage or putting anything from the garbage in their mouth.
 If you have a baby or a toddler, you can use safety gates to create a play area next to your office or place your child’s play pen close to your office. This will allow you to keep an eye on your child and be assured they are in a contained, safe space nearby.If you have an older child, the best way to keep them out of your office is to give them a work area of their own. Create a mini office area for them in one corner or area of your office so you can monitor them while you’re working. Place a small desk with drawers in the area so your child knows where their work space is and where your work space is. This will establish boundaries and make for a more child-friendly work space.
 Give your child an activity to focus on in their mini office area with child-friendly supplies like crayons, markers, water soluble paint, and legos. You can even set up a task for them, like making a painting or building a spaceship, so they are occupied while you are doing work., Though it may be tempting to simply ban your child from your office as a form of childproofing, this will likely only make your child more interested in your office and they may try to barge in anyway. Be open to letting your child play, interact, and hang out in your office, especially if they are older.Once you childproof your office, you should feel assured knowing your child can come in and out of your office without hurting themselves. Having an open door policy will also make the office feel like just another room of the house and over time, your child should grow more interested in playing in other rooms in the house.

