 The locust pose is a "baby backbend" – a deceptively simple pose that can be quite challenging. This pose can be good to move into after dolphin plank pose, and can be added to a flow of poses with dolphin and dolphin plank.








Start locust pose by lying flat on your belly. You may want to put a folded blanket under your ribs and pelvis to provide some padding. Rest your arms along your sides with your palms up and turn your toes towards each other.
As you exhale, lift your upper torso, arms, legs, and head away from the floor, so that your body weight is resting on your belly and pelvis. Reach through your legs, firming up your buttocks and legs. Your arms should be parallel to the floor, stretching back through your fingertips.
Keep your gaze straight ahead, taking care not to crunch the back of your neck or jut out your chin. You can clasp your hands behind you above your lower back to deepen the stretch in your chest.
Hold the pose for 30 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply, then exhale and release slowly back down to the floor.
 Since you start downward facing dog from your hands and knees, it's a good pose to do after the locust pose. You also can do downward facing dog directly after your dolphin plank pose.








Walk your hands forward slightly, so they're just in front of your shoulders. Press your palms firmly into the mat and spread your fingers.
Tuck your toes in, and on exhale lift your hips up and back into downward facing dog pose. Your body should take the form of an upside-down "V" with your toes and palms supporting your weight.
Bend your knees a little to lengthen your spine, and with each exhale try to straighten them a little more. Your back should be a straight line from your hips down to your head. Pull through your heels to straighten your legs.
Keep your shoulder blades pressed down and back along your spine. Your upper arms and shoulders should be rotated outward while your forearms pull inward to stabilize your upper body.
 Child's pose is a relaxing pose to add to the end of any yoga routine. The gentle pose increases flexibility in your hips and back while giving you a chance to relax in a completely stable position on the floor.








If you are on your hands and knees, lower your hips down as you raise your upper body until you are in a kneeling position. You may want to put a rolled towel or blanket behind your knees for comfort.
Keep your knees about hip's width apart, or wider if it makes you feel more comfortable. On exhale, hinge your upper body at the hips and stretch out over your thighs, lengthening your spine to fold over your legs until your belly rests between your thighs.
Bring your arms to rest alongside your body with your palms up behind you. Slowly release your shoulders and rest your forehead on the floor (or on a block, if it's more comfortable).
Since this is a resting pose, you can stay in it as long as you want, breathing deeply. When you decide to come out of the pose, lengthen your torso and lift from your tailbone to raise up on an inhale.

