 You're on this page—good job! That's the first step. Mentally, you're where you need to be. But how about physically? You probably have some idea of what kind of physical shape you're in. But in order to find out where you're truly at (and to know how far you've gone), you'll need to record your baseline fitness scores. Do a little background work to get started:Your pulse rate before and after you walk 1 mile (1.6 kilometers)
How long it takes you to walk 1 mile (1.6 kilometers)
How many push-ups you can do at a time
How far you can reach forward while seated on the floor with your legs in front of you
Your waist circumference as measured around your bare abdomen just above your hipbone;
, If you're a rookie to the workout game, you may not have a great idea as to what you're truly capable of or what you should be doing. If this is the case, it's wise to consult a doctor. They will be able to point you in a reasonable direction of meeting your goals.


If you're a male over 45 or a woman over 55, it's not only best but it's imperative you talk to your doctor before beginning. Same goes if you have major health concerns. Talk to your doctor before something irreversible happens.Not only is it for good measure, but it ensures your safety and health too.
 If you're about to work out 5 hours a week, fantastic. The good news about that is for the other 163 hours, you can be as lazy as you like. But diet is a 24/7 thing. Though it's not mandatory, it's a good idea to start thinking about it now, along with your new-found exercise regimen.


Eating right and exercising are organically connected. Once you get into it, working out can give you that same rush a package of Oreos can. But there will be points where a 300-calorie-burning workout session will lead you to scarfing a 500-calorie piece of cheesecake. Unfortunately, it doesn't work like that. When you start exercising, monitor your food intake as well.
Eating junk will make it harder to exercise. It's not just a weight thing—it's how you feel. If you are serious about starting to work out, let the same attitude reflect in your diet. You'll feel a lot more ready to take on that run after a meal full of vitamins and nutrients than you would if you chowed down on preservatives and chemical additives.

