 For this method you’ll need to visit a local yarn store and pick up a couple of skeins of fluffy white yarn. Thread the yarn through two holes, and then tie a large knot in the yarn so the end won’t slip back through the ball. Then, wind the yarn around the ball until you’ve created a roughly tennis-ball-sized “snowball.”To finish off the “snowball,” cut the yarn off of the skein. Using your fingers—or a crochet hook, if you have one—press the end of the yarn into the yarn that’s already wrapped around the golf ball, so that the “snowball” won’t unravel.
A golf practice ball resembles a ping pong ball, but has holes punched in the outer surface. Golf practice balls can be bought inexpensively online, or at a sports equipment store.
If you’re struggling to effectively weave the yarn through the holes in the golf practice ball, purchase a large plastic needle at a local hobby or craft-supply store.;
, This is perhaps the easiest DIY method for constructing indoor “snowballs”—find white sheets of paper and wad them up into snowball sized, roughly spherical objects.If the kids involved in the snowball fight aren’t particular about the “snowballs” actually being white, then you can use any other type of paper that you may have around the house.
Check your recycle bins for newspapers or coupon mailings. Depending on what papers are laying around your home, you could even crumple up old homework assignments, bills, etc.
 If you have time to plan a week or two ahead for your indoor snowball fight, but would like to invest minimal effort into constructing the “snowballs” themselves, consider purchasing a set from an online retailer or from a company like ThinkGeek.Snowballs will be made from a plush, soft material, and typically are about 3 inches (7.6 centimeters) in diameter.


For example, Amazon offers dozens of options for purchasing indoor snowballs. Small packages of 6 start at about $10, while larger packages of 40 sell for about $35.If you live in a region that doesn’t receive much snow during the winter, it’s likely that some retail stores in your area will stock indoor snowballs. Start by checking children’s toy stores (like Toys R Us) and craft supply stores.

