 Melengestrol acetate (MGA®) is a product that is added to the feed that is being fed to them, and comes as dry or liquid premix form, and in medicated range pellets.
 The label will give instructions on how much MGA needs to be given based on number of head to feed per ton of feed per day. The rule of thumb for supplementing MGA® 200 Premix and MGA® 500 Liquid Premix is that heifers and females get 0.25 to 0.5 mg per head per day, with optimum levels of 0.35 to 0.5 mg/head/day for maximum estrus suppression. MGA® 100 Premix should be fed so that females get 0.4 mg/head/day.


The only MGA product approved for use in Canadian cattle is MGA® 100 Premix. The others, including MGA® 100 Premix, are approved for use in American cattle.
MGA® 100 Premix contains 100 mg of melengestrol acetate per pound (lb), MGA® 200 Premix 200 mg per pound, and MGA® 500 Liquid Premix 500 mg per pound. How much MGA is mixed in with the feed depends on the type of feed as per compliance with the Food and Drug Agency's (FDA) Medicated Feeds Program.

As per the program, there are two types of feeds: Type B and Type C medicated feeds. Type B medicated feeds are feeds that are created for the purpose of manufacturing other Type B medicated feeds, not to be fed to livestock. Type C medicated feeds are those where a medicated feed or Type A medicated article (like MGA® 200 Premix) or a Type B medicated feed has been heavily diluted with a non-medicated feed for the purpose of being fed to livestock.
 As per the aforementioned step, you will need to determine whether you are putting MGA in Type C (non-medicated) feed, or Type B feed (to be turned to Type C feed). The label will indicate how much MGA can be mixed with the feed you intend to feed to your heifers. MGA® 200 Premix, for example, needs to be mixed at a rate of 1.25 to 10 pounds per ton of non-medicated feed to create a Type C medicated feed with 0.5 to 2.0 grams of MGA per ton.


Remember, one US short ton is around 2000 pounds (~ 907 kilograms), and that MGA@ 200 contains 200 mg of MGA per pound of the premix. Also, try not to get mixed up on the conversion measurements between empirical and metric measurements!!
MGA@ 500 Liquid Premix contains more complicated mixing directions that will need to be followed. Basically, though, this premix should be mixed with a non-medicated feed at a rate of 0.5 to 4 pounds per ton so that you get a Type C feed that contains 0.25 to 2.0 grams of MGA per ton.
MGA® 100 Premix should be added to feed at a rate of 0.25 kg to 1.0 kg per 1000 kg of feed so that heifers get 0.4 mg of feed per head per day.
 The amount you measure out to give to your animals to be mixed in the feed will depending on how many animals you are feeding and how much feed you have to use to mix the MGA in.


The feed that is typically mixed in with is grain or bag of feed that is a mix of grains and intended as a supplement or to top-dress on a mix of silage and hay, especially in a feedlot environment. It's not feasible to mix MGA premix directly with silage or hay.
 The resulting manufactured feed should be fed as a top-dress on grain, roughage, or mixed with a complete ration so that cattle get the Type C feed at a rate of 0.5 to 2.0 pounds per day.


This feed is not intended nor permitted to be fed to steers, breeding cows or heifers, bulls nor veal or suckling calves, and doesn't work on spayed heifers or steers. It is only intended for feeder cows or heifers that are fed in confinement for slaughter to suppress estrus for the intended period of time they are in the feedlot.
 You will need to feed this premix as directed daily to prevent heifers from coming into heat. Any lapse of feeding this can result in heifers going into estrus at least a day later.

