 If your hair loss could be caused by a medical condition or medication, talk to a doctor before trying home remedies. She may recommend prescription-strength treatments, or test for the underlying cause. Some medications and home remedies may react with each other to cause unpleasant or dangerous side effects.


If you are losing hair at a relatively young age, visit the doctor.
If you have a severe medical condition, even one unrelated to hair, talk to a doctor before trying herbal remedies.
If your doctor's advice doesn't help, make an appointment with a dermatologist.
 Commercial hair growth treatments work for some people and not for others. Try out a treatment, follow the instructions on the label, and monitor your scalp for faster growth or slower hair loss.
 Castor oil, avocado oil, cactus oils, coconut oil, olive oil, almond oil, and argan oil are all popular treatments.
 First, take few fresh Aloe vera leaves and extract their gel. Mix into coconut oil and massage gently into your scalp. You can also apply it root to tip as it makes hair soft and reduces breakage. Keep it on for eight hours, then rinse off with a mild shampoo.
 Mix a spoonful of honey with olive oil or another cooking-grade vegetable oil. Apply the mixture to the roots. Rinse off after no less than two hours.
 Some essential oils may prevent hairfall. These can be toxic in concentrated dose, so use them carefully. Add a few drops in your shampoo or to a safer oil (such as olive oil, coconut oil, or avocado oil). Never go above the dosing recommended by the label or a trusted source.


Many essential oils are advertised as hair-loss prevention treatments, but they may not have been tested. One study reported improvement with lavender, rosemary, thyme, and cedarwood essential oils., Certain types of clay are sold as alternatives to shampoo. Try rhassoul or shikakai clay, which may stimulate hair growth.
 The silica in this treatment may make hair more resistant and flexible, reducing loss due to breakage.


Contact a doctor first if you have a blood disorder.

