 Get a vision for your market. Change things with personal energy and a passion as the source of innovations to develop and to see your ideas come to "flesh".



Take advantage of new parts, ideas: Do it well. You can't force people to agree with you, but if you have a good idea that you really like, then other should like it too. Then learn how to produce it.

Seek a better idea: not obvious, not just any good idea.;
, If you can light this kind of effort, with: A twisting, ie: old ideas (+?) plus your idea -- becoming a new product. Renewal is a mainstay of Steve Jobs methods. Reuse, arguably, accessible tools of the American system of capitalism (churning, stirring the cream into butter) --

, Perhaps get surplus or used equipment to work with at first. (In 1976, Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne founded Apple in Steve's parents' garage).


Get your "balance" in partners (such as use your "recipe", but get a cook/manager/geek) for the technical side for you to join with that person's perspective, info, training: your tech/method persons can work on design and product mechanics, ie: electronics and programming if that applies -- while you supply the place, the name, the marketable ideas and passion -- someone must be the detail person(s) for your ideas, to assure simplicity, workability, quality with tolerances to uphold (testing, rechecking).
 Move your ideas forward with stealth and "personal-magnetism" to attract new ideas; remember that opposites attract (but the force is invisible: Jobs in 1985 already had "crazy" ideas of making high tech a "consumer driven market"; it got him fired from Apple's management, but he came back years later with billions, to do it, and did it like that: iMac, i-this, i-that -- consumer driven demand, customers camping-out at stores, queuing-up...).
 Find a willing investor/financier.


Sell your abilities, basic ideas, but only the basics to get financial backing. (Early Apple funding came from semi-retired Intel product-marketing manager and engineer A.C. "Mike" Markkula Jr., who was made President of Apple. Jobs was not CEO but as co-founder was in Apple's management.)

Don't give up the details of your secrets to a crafty, financier who may steal your ideas.
 Reinvention can turn ideas to take advantage of opportunity with strong ideas (for example in the late 1970s, Apple re-designed its first computer, developed it all renewed, and so marketed one of the first commercially successful lines of personal computers, as the "Apple two series" ).


Design is not just what your product looks like and feels like, but also, how well it works. Put great products in front of your customers, so they will open their wallets for the value that they expect. Make sure of what your design and execution team is each doing to turn out extraordinary products.
Take new approaches to how things work: like developing and using a new way to work or play using the computer mouse, actualized in the early 1980s. Jobs saw the working potential of mouse-driven graphical user interface, adopting the "new" Xerox PARC's mouse (Palo Alto Research Center Incorporated), a research and development company in Palo Alto, CA.
 It is smart/best to follow some outstanding basic methods. Here are some extreme facts of developing "new-old" ideas:


Make your products easier to use (Jobs saw an advantage in using graphic icons. He decided to click icons with a mouse rather than using either labor intensive, memorized keyboard stroke combinations, and de-emphasize the control keys, function keys, hot keys and command-line keyed-/typed-in computer commands with multiple parameters, not using so many words.)

, Jobs had to have the vision to explore and perfect new territories and sail into "uncharted waters" of a mobile phone with no keypad, without market research showing any demand for it it had to be secret -- but take on the market-world with that one wager?)

, Take a loose idea and run with it. There is no shame to take the best, odd ideas you come across, and turn them into world-changing gadgets, your way. (The icon and mouse... from Xerox)


Sneak, use secrecy as a necessary part of getting results: such as new ideas for inventing devices.
 Don't tolerate "good enough". Expect high quality with your intolerance for loose or imperfect rendition of your ideas.
 Remember, that Steve Jobs created new markets, and made new product categories: iMac, iPhone, iPod, iPad,etc.


Reinvent products, never-say-die, so keep developing them.
 Sharpen a vibrant personality, if only by style and implied humor (not silly stuff).




Take an old standard to new heights of innovative techniques. (Job's Pixar computerized animation system re-invented The Walt Disney Company's animation technique to create numerous movies. The system made Jobs a Billionaire in Disney stock when they bought the animation studio from him.)



,


Build a customer base: Fans, buyers could queue up for two or three days, ahead of launch of new products, as with the iPhone, iPod, iPad. (Jobs changed how we get and consume information and entertainment, redefining leadership in his markets.)

,