 Learning about something new expands your mind. The more willing you are to learn, the more you can tap into your imagination and creativity. Read as much as you can to draw inspiration and to increase your knowledge.


Find a subject you are interested in and read as much as you can about it. Then, go onto other subjects. Remember, don’t close yourself off; try something new and you may discover other interests which can lead to a larger imagination. Consider It’s Not How Good You Are, It’s How Good You Want to Be by Paul Arden or Lateral Thinking by Edward de Bono.;
, Find someone you know who has a large imagination and ask them questions. Interviewing them may give you some ideas on activities or techniques that you can use to enhance your imagination. You can also talk to someone who is doing something you are interested in, like an artist or doctor. Learn from people you want to be like and it can take you far.


Don’t limit yourself to only staged interviews. Carry a notebook with you and walk up to people who are engaging in something you like or admire. Pick their brain and you could find yours making room for a bigger imagination., Creative people can open up that part of you that wants to become more imaginative. Learning how they spend their time and what they do to get their creative juices flowing, as well as simply being around them can help you become more like the person you want to be.


Look online to find clubs that meet near you to connect with creative people. Sign up for an art class, look for paint nights at restaurants, attend a pottery demonstration, or find something where you can interact with people who are creative., With your busy life you may find difficulty in finding time to draw. However, if you can take just a few minutes out of your day to draw or even doodle, you can become much more creative than you already are. Simply pick up your pencil or pen and create the first thing that comes into your mind.


Grab a pen and paper the next time you are on a long phone call and allow yourself to doodle. Whether it’s circles, spirals, dots, hearts, or designs you can’t make out, expressing yourself in this manner can help you to expand your imagination., There’s a reason why playing is encouraged in schools for younger kids: it builds the mind and enhances imagination. Take time out of your day to build something using toys. It can relieve your stress and help you to become more creative.


Carry a small set of Legos or another building activity with you when you travel. Play with it when you’re between meetings, on a layover, or are bored in your hotel room., There's an age-old myth that people use drugs and alcohol to find inspiration for their creative pursuits. Sadly, the only potential results to substance abuse are health problems and an early grave. You don't need mind-altering substances to boost your imagination. In truth, you'll be at your best when you're sober anyway.