 To end a current relationship status on your user profile, you must sign into your account.


Go to the Facebook home page, and enter your registered email address and password in the required fields at the top right corner of the page.
Click “Log in” to access to your user account.;
, To end a relationship connection with an existing user on Facebook, you need to edit and update your relationship information on your profile’s “About” section.


Click the “Edit Profile” link at the top left corner on your home page.
Scroll down a bit, and click on the “Family and Relationships” tab listed on left side bar under the “About” section. You will see all your current relationship status at the top, along with the username of your partner and his or her profile pic.
 To do this, click the down arrow to the left of the “Save changes” button. The options to the privacy settings will appear as a drop-down list.


Scroll down the list and select “Only me.” Now, your relationship status will be private, and only you can see that it has been terminated.
This is optional. If you wish for your friends to know, select “Friends” instead.
Once you’ve set the privacy appropriately, tap “Save changes.”

, Hover your mouse pointer over the name of your current relationship, and you will see an “Edit” link appearing to right side of the name. Click the “Edit” link.


Click on the drop-down list next to the “Relationship Status” title. This will open different relationship statuses. Select the very first one, which is three hyphens (---). This will leave your relationship status as “blank.” Or you can select the second option, which is “Single.”
Notice after selecting “blank” or “Single,” your ex-partner’s profile name, picture, and your relationship’s anniversary date will be removed.
If you set your privacy settings to “Only me,” your ex-partner will not be notified of the changes, but if your privacy settings is set to “Public” or “Friends,” your ex-partner will be notified. It will not matter if he or she accepts the notification; your new status will be updated on your profile as soon as you save.
 Do this by clicking “Save changes” just below the relationship status drop-down list.

