 If you try to study for long periods of time, you will tire easily and your studying will not be very effective. It's much better to study in short 20-50 minute bursts, as during this short space of time you will be able to concentrate fully, thus maximizing the amount of information you absorb.


After 20-50 minutes studying a particular topic, take a quick 5-10 minute break and then move on to another topic. This way you will stay fresh and won't get bored of the material.
To use this method of studying, you will need to break down your study material into small, easily-digestible chunks. If you give yourself too much material to cover in such a short space of time you will not be able to learn the material properly.
 The importance of taking frequent, short breaks cannot be underestimated. Taking a break allows your brain to process all of the information it has just absorbed and to refresh before beginning again. You should take 5-10 minute breaks between each 20-50 minute study session and a 30 minute break every four hours or so.


Perusing social media sites or watching television is not the best use of your break time. You are better off using that time to eat a healthy snack to refuel your brain, as it consumes glucose while you study.Almonds, fruit and yogurt are all good options.
You should also take a short walk outside to get some fresh air. Oxygen stimulates blood flow, which helps keep the brain in top form. If you can't go outside, try doing some stretches to loosen up your limbs.
 Studying can seem like a very daunting prospect when you've set yourself the goal of learning an entire topic over the course of an extended study session. However, the task will be much more approachable if you break the topic into smaller sections, which can be tackled in small, intense bursts.


For example, if you are studying a Shakespearean text and you set yourself the goal of knowing "The Tempest" inside out by the end of the day, the task may seem insurmountable. But if you break your study up into specific tasks it will be much more approachable. Take 40 minutes to study the character of Caliban, another 40 to study the play's major themes, and another 40 to learn some of the most important quotes.
Equally if you're studying a science subject such as biology, don't overwhelm yourself by trying to absorb an entire textbook chapter in one go. Break it up into small, easily-digestible pieces. Take 20 minutes to learn some key definitions, or to memorize an important diagram or experiment.
 Making your own personalized notes is essential for effective studying. Well-structured, organized notes can help you to study much more efficiently, as consulting your own tailor-made notes is much quicker than trawling through a large textbook in search of specific information. By making your own notes, you can highlight essential information, while eliminating any superfluous material contained in textbooks.


When making notes, try to compile the most helpful, easy to understand information from a variety of textbooks, from professor's handouts and class notes. By varying your source material, you will produce notes that are broader in content. This will help you to stand out from your classmates during an exam and increase your chances of doing well.
Try to find a method of making notes that works for you. Some students make flashcards, others use different colored pens when writing, while others use a shorthand. Do what feels right for you, just make sure the notes are legible and well-organized.
 Most college students are bombarded with textbooks, and reading is often a chore they've come to dread. However, reading your textbooks does not need to be as difficult or time-consuming as you think. The key is learning how to read the text more efficiently and effectively.


Before you dive in and read the material in depth, take a minute to survey the material by briefly skimming through the chapters you plan on reading. Read the title of the chapter and look to see if there is an outline which summarizes the chapter's contents. Read any headings, subheadings or words in bold text. Have an idea about what you will be reading before jumping in.
Ask yourself what the most important topics or concepts in the chapter are. You may find that turning each heading into a question is helpful. Develop questions like Who?, What?, When?, Where?, Why?, and How?, which you can answer while you read.
Once you’ve become familiar with what the chapter is going to cover, it is time to start reading. Try to to recognize any important terms or concepts. It is also a good idea to underline or highlight any information you think is important and that you would like to revisit later.
After you have finished reading the text, the next step is to recite the information you learned.Try to answer the questions you developed earlier without referring to the textbook in order to test whether you really absorbed the material. Once you feel you have a complete grasp of the material, repeat all the major topics and terms to yourself. Putting the concepts you read into your own words helps with memorization.
Make notes about the information you just read, including any headings, definitions, key terms or anything else you consider important. While your notes should be brief, they should also be detailed enough to allow you to refresh your memory of the most important concepts when you're using them to study later.
Now that you’ve read the material and taken notes, review everything you’ve learned. Browse your notes to recall the important topics that were covered in the chapter. Try to predict questions that your professor may put on an exam and practice how you would answer them. Make sure you have a strong understanding of what you just read. If you feel confused or do not understand a concept, go back and read over it again., Once you feel that you have a good grasp of the material, ask a friend or family member if you can try explaining the material to them. If you can explain the material in a way that the other person (who hasn't studied the subject) can understand, without getting confused yourself, it is a pretty good indication that you know your topic well.


By putting the information in your own words and talking through the topic without the aid of notes, you are helping to commit the knowledge to memory.
Being able to explain it to someone else also proves that you actually understand the information you have learned, rather than just having learned it by rote.
 Once you have covered all of the material that is likely to come up in the final exam, you should consider doing some practice tests. Doing practice tests is an excellent way to test your knowledge and understanding of the material.


Use end-of-term exams, class quizzes and past exam papers or ask your professor to provide a sample paper. Past exam or sample papers will also help you to feel comfortable with the structure and format of the exam, which can be invaluable come exam day.
Don't worry if the practice test doesn't go as well as you'd hoped. The whole point of doing a practice test is to identify your weak areas, so you can go back and study them some more.

