 Scar massage can help to flatten and soften scars, especially during the immature phase of scarring, where the scar is in the healing stages or has just healed. Applying pressure to the scars through massage can encourage collagen production, help to decrease any itchiness, and give the scar more moisture and flexibility. However, scar massage will not work on scars that are more than two years old. To massage your scars:Use non scented lotion on the scars that will not irritate your skin. Start by applying lotion and then using two fingers to put light pressure on the scars, making small circles over the length of the scars and the skin around them. You can then massage the scars up and down with two fingers and side to side. You should use enough pressure to make the scars area appear light in color or turn white.
Always use lotion on the scars before you massage them, as they will likely be sensitive or dry as they heals. Massage the scars two to three times a day for ten minutes at a time, at least six months after the scar develops. You can continue to massage the scars after six months to promote healing and to soften the scars.
Stop massaging the scars if you experience redness, bleeding, increased pain around or on the scars, and if the scars feel warmer than the skin around them.;
, Lotion that contains vitamin E has been known to soften scars and encourage healing. However, only put vitamin E lotion on scars that have had one month to heal, as putting lotion on before then can lead to a further buildup of scar tissue.Always try a small amount of product on your face before putting it on any facial scars to ensure you do not have an allergic reaction to the product.
 Lemon juice is a natural astringent and can help to fade acne scars. Because it is acidic, it can help to remove dead skin cells and soften any acne scars so they gradually fade away. Apply a lemon juice based face mask to help soften your scars and encourage the scars to fade.Prepare the scrub right before you are planning to use it so it is fresh. Combine two tablespoons of honey, one tablespoon of lemon juice, one tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil and one and a half tablespoons of sugar.
Using clean fingers, gently massage the scrub onto your facial scars. Use gentle circular motions to ensure the scars are well scrubbed for five to ten minutes and then rinse with warm water.
If you feel a burning or stinging sensation on your skin after you apply the scrub due to the acidity of the lemon juice, you can dilute the scrub with two tablespoons of water.
 Olive oil is a natural oil that can help to soften your scars and help them to heal. Try to use organic olive oil as you do not want to put any additives or chemicals on your skin.


Pour one tablespoon of olive oil in a bowl. Dip your fingers into the olive oil and massage your scars gently and slowly.
Place a steaming towel over your face to open your pores and allow the olive oil to soften your scars. Once the towel cools down, use it to wipe any remaining oil off your skin.

