 Biofeedback is an alternative treatment method for patients suffering from diseases relating to the immune system. Crohn’s disease is sometimes triggered by an overly sensitive immune system which causes severe inflammation in the small intestines as well as generalized abdominal pain.


Therefore, biofeedback could be an effective method in controlling the symptoms of Crohn’s disease. In this method of treatment, the patient is usually hooked to a machine that transmits electric signals to gain a feedback of the body’s responses to the sent signals.
This information regarding our body’s feedback is used by the doctor to adjust the frequency and intensity of the electrical signals to be sent in future treatments. The machine then converts these signals to cue the body on a better reaction and response with regards to the abnormalities the body is currently experiencing.
The theory behind biofeedback is to allow the body to adapt better and to heal faster the natural way in combating Crohn’s disease. The frequency of the sessions depends on the physician as to the extent of the disease and depending on the severity of your symptoms of Crohn’s disease.
 Acupuncture has its origin in traditional Chinese medicine. With acupuncture fine needles are inserted into the skin at certain key locations around the body.


The acupuncturist determines the key anatomical areas where the needles are to be inserted. This promotes the body’s release of endorphins (the body’s natural painkillers), helping to control the pain and inflammation in the digestive system.
By stimulating the body’s natural healing processes and defenses, the acupuncturist aims to boost the body’s immune system in fighting off infection and inflammation, as well as to reduce symptoms of Crohn’s disease.
Experiment with acupuncture sessions at least once a month to see if the symptoms of Crohn's disease improve.
 Homeopathy is a special branch of alternative medicine where diluted substances derived from plants, animals, and other substances are used for the treatment of certain diseases, such as Crohn’s disease. In Crohn’s disease, homeopathic treatment is highly individualized depending on your symptoms.


Consult a homeopath regarding homeopathic treatment for Crohn's disease.

