 Raise your hand or approach your teacher as soon as you find something that you are confused or concerned about. Never feel shy or stupid for asking a question. Odds are someone else in the class is wondering about the same thing and will appreciate you stepping up. If you have multiple questions you can always wait until after class too.


For example, if your teacher normally assigns five chapters to read over the weekend and she didn’t say anything about it this time you might want to ask her. You could say, “Do we need to do our usual chapter reading this weekend?” This way you can relax and not worry about missing something.
If your teacher is okay with it you could also ask how long a certain assignment will take to finish. This will help you to better schedule your time for the week., If you are confused about the material covered in class or if you are unsure about your approach to the homework, it might be best to make an appointment with your teacher after class. This will allow them to concentrate all of their attention on helping you succeed. If they are unavailable to meet consider approaching another teacher in a similar subject or even a school counselor.You might approach your teacher and say, “I’m just not getting that math worksheet. Is there a time this week when we can sit down and look it over together?”
If you ask for help in this way make sure that you’ve started the work yourself. Don’t expect your teacher to do the work for you.
 It is not your parent’s responsibility to police your homework (and you probably don’t want them to). However, if you are really stumped or just want a second opinion, you can always ask for their help. They could read over your essay and suggest new approaches. Or, they could test out your answers to a worksheet.If you live and study at home your parents could also help to create a good study space by keeping the area quiet and preventing other family members from interrupting you., Talk with your fellow students and organize a study group. Your group can focus on a particular subject or project or you could cover all types of homework together. You can agree to keep each other accountable by banning phone time, etc. Just make sure that you stay on task and actually get your homework done or this extra time could put you behind.Make sure that you are only working together on projects that given the “okay” for group work by your teacher. Otherwise, you could be committing a version of academic dishonesty by not following the rules of the assignment.
You can also meet with your group virtually thanks to various programs, such as Google Hangout, which allows you to video chat with numerous people at once., If you continue to struggle with the homework for a certain subject or if you just want another perspective, you should consider working with a tutor. Some tutors charge a per hour fee whereas others volunteer and work for free. Talk to your teacher or school counselor for additional information.Libraries are a great source of information about tutoring and other resources. Just call your local library and ask what programs they have in place to help students.