 Part of why you may feel you are a bore is that you feel you cannot talk to strangers or you are not capable of doing new or challenging things. You may have picked up limiting beliefs or ideas that are holding you back. It’s important that you identify these beliefs and focus on chipping away at them so you do not feel limited or constrained by these beliefs.A good way to approach a possibly new or challenging situation is with curiosity, rather than with fear. Think about how a child sees the world and expresses a genuine desire to learn about the things she does not know or understand. Try to embrace this childlike approach to the world, and be open to spontaneous experiences. This may help you to release any limiting ideas that you tend to lean on or use as an excuse not to do something new.
 Another big element of spontaneous living is saying “yes” instead of “no” to situations or activities that make you uncomfortable. This could be something small, like going to a party that you normally wouldn’t go to or attending a talk that you would usually skip out on. Focus on stepping out of your comfort zone and embracing uncomfortable situations.


Challenge yourself to say “yes” to at least one event, activity, or situation a week that you would usually say “no” to. This could be a friend’s invitation to a talk or a play, an opportunity to try a new food, or a chance to do something you are very uncomfortable doing, like singing or dancing. The more you say “yes”, the less bored with your life you will feel and the less boring you will be in everyday conversation.
 If you have a friend or relative who tends to bring the energy in the room down or who you find boring, keep some distance from them. Often, you can pick up the habits of others, especially if you spend lots of time with them on a daily basis. Rather than let yourself get sucked in to a boring or negative outlook, focus on being more spontaneous and ready to embrace new or exciting things.
 Though not everything should be done through random decision making, especially big decisions involving money or relationships, you can keep small decisions interesting with a dash of randomness.For example, if you want to take a walk in your area but aren’t sure where to go, flip a coin and go where the coin leads. If you aren’t sure what movie or show to watch, close your eyes and choose a show at random.

