 This is a step that is often skipped, but it can make all the difference in your smoky eye. Makeup primer creates a smooth, even base for the eyeshadow. It evens out imperfections in your skin while giving makeup something to really adhere to. It helps prevent creasing, and it helps keep your eyeshadow exactly where you want it.You can buy makeup primers at your local drugstore or beauty supply store.
Rub it gently onto your eyelid using your fingertip. Make sure you evenly coat the entire lid and bring it all the way up past the crease.;
, After you’ve applied your primer and applied your eyeshadow, there’s another step to ensure that shadow doesn’t move. With a small, fluffy brush, gently dust your favorite translucent powder around the perimeter of the smoky eye. Make sure you apply it around all of the product.


You can buy loose translucent powder at the drugstore or beauty supply store.
 Setting sprays are to makeup what topcoats are to nail polish. Basically, they help to ensure that your makeup doesn’t budge. When you sandwich your smoky eyeshadow between primer and setting spray, that makeup won’t be going anywhere.Close your eyes, hold the bottle at arm’s length, and spray it over your face.
Allow it to dry naturally. It should only take a few seconds.
 You’ve probably seen these patches in the drug store. While they boast a variety of benefits, they’re typically to help reduce under eye circles and puffiness. Instead of wearing them while you lounge, however, try putting them on as you do your smoky eye. When the excess powder inevitably sprinkles down, it will fall on the pads, rather than on your skin.Once you are done creating the smoky eyes, remove the pads. With that, you will remove all of the fall-out.
Additionally, your under eyes will be hydrated, calmed, and vibrant.
 If you struggle with a lot of fall-out while doing smoky eye, can always perform a bit of cleanup afterwards. Once you are satisfied with your eye makeup, dip a small cotton swab in eye makeup remover. Then, gently rub away any excess powder that has fallen onto your under eye and cheeks. After all, no one likes to look like they have two black eyes!, If you watch videos of most beauty gurus, they usually start with their eyes. After their eyes are flawless, they move on to their skin. While that may seem like a strange order, it makes perfect sense when you are dealing with eyeshadows. Instead of worrying about fall out and smudging underneath the eyes, you can cover and correct these things with your foundation and concealer. Get your smoky eyes done, and then start applying your skin products., It’s easy to get carried away with a beautiful, dark palette. However, sometimes you take a step back, look at yourself in the mirror, and realize you look like a goth. Luckily, there are ways to fix this. The easiest method is probably to simply dust a neutral shadow over your dark shadows. This will help brighten them up, and make the look a bit less intense., Instead of makeup remover, buy a bottle of cleansing water. You can typically find this near the makeup remover at your local drug store or at a beauty supply store. Then, dip a cotton swab into the cleansing water and gently run it over areas that seem a bit too dark.Unlike makeup remover, it won’t pick up all of the powder you’ve carefully applied. Instead, it’ll pick up excess pigment and leave your lids just looking a bit lighter.
 If you’re worried that your dark smoky eyes make your eyes look dark and dreary, try this simple trick. Take a white eyeliner pencil, and tight line your waterline. This is almost an optical illusion, making the whites of your eyes seem larger. It instantly brightens up your gaze, and undoes some of the heaviness that you created with your smoky eye.

