 When using a trailer to tow your car, you probably don't have to worry about lights. Make sure before hand that your towing vehicle has a compatible tow wiring receptacle, and have a buddy help you check to make sure all the trailer lights work, including running lights, brake lights, and turn signals. For legal reasons make sure the license plate is illuminated as well.


If your trailer lighting receptacle doesn't match the pigtail on the trailer side, don't fret. Adapters of all kinds and variations can be found through your moving company, or auto parts store.
Tow dollies also have lights as a rule, and will connect to your car’s light in the same manner. Some even have little external lights which can be magnetically mounted to your car's bumper for improved visibility.
 If pulling your car directly with a tow bar, you have a couple options. The magnetic lights mentioned in the previous step can be connected to your tow vehicle's trailer lighting receptacle and placed on the trunk or bumper of the towed car. This helps other cars to see when you are turning or braking.


You can also find wiring kits which let you plug your trailer lights directly into your car, letting you use it's own drive lights to do your signaling. These differ somewhat according to which make, model and year your car is, and can be as simple as plugging in to an available pigtail connector, or may mean some actual re-wiring of your car. Run an online search to determine what kind of lighting your specific car needs.
No matter which method is used, leave your car battery on and leave your running lights on if rolling at night, just for the added visibility. This, however, is not a legal requirement.
 If you can't find or get your hands on external towing lights, or cannot hook up the car's lights to act as trailer lights, leave the battery turned on, and run your hazards. Remember to stop every so often and run the engine on your towed car to keep the battery alive.


This method is fine for a one time emergency day trip but you'll want real trailer lighting if going more than a few miles, and more than once or twice a year.
Sooner or later you will encounter a state patrolman with no tolerance of such shenanigans, and it is absolutely necessary for your safety and the safety of those you share the road with to maintain as much visibility as possible.
 If you are towing your car on a trailer or dolly, all you need to do is lock your steering wheel after you have your front wheels strapped down to the trailer or dolly.


If pulling your car while on the ground (via a tow bar), leave the steering wheel unlocked, so your front wheels can turn a little going around curves. Again, there are some differing opinions, but most people secure the wheel loosely with bungee cords or a bit of rope, to prevent the front wheels from turning too much and getting stuck in a sideways position.
It's also a good idea when towing in this manner to avoid backing up. Front wheels can turn sideways when going backwards and can be damaged in this manner.

