 While most frogs will be found near water, you’ll want to know what frogs are in your area if there are any dangerous frogs (poison dart frogs, etc.) in the area, and what their habitat is. Research can also help you find useful tips for finding specific frogs by helping you identify their calls or markings. Many states have websites about their local species., Most species are nocturnal, so you may not find any in the day. Be careful of other dangerous species during that time. Snakes are often found in similar areas as frogs and newts, especially as many snakes, including the very venomous cottonmouth, will eat some amphibians as part of their diet. Never put your hands where you can't see them.


It's a good idea to use a flashlight.Using a red flashlight, or covering the flashlight with red plastic wrap or tissue paper will cause minimal disturbance for nocturnal animals.You can also use night vision goggles. Though night birding is often the most common use for specialty night-vision goggles, they can be useful in seeing frogs and newts as well., Most frogs and newts live near water.When looking for newts it’s also useful to look under rocks and logs.Any place where there are ponds or lakes, including forests and meadows may attract different species of frogs., Many species hibernate in the winter. The best time to find them is in the spring or summer. If you live in a colder climate with a late spring or an early fall, summer’s the best bet., A canoe is quieter than a motor boat and will allow you to approach the frogs quietly.Ponds, lakes and river deltas are all great places to look for frogs and newts. You will often find frogs and newts near the bank or among plant life along the shore.If you shine a light on frogs while canoeing, they will often sit completely still., If you are loud, you will likely scare the frog away. To make your search as quiet as possible, wear quiet shoes and clothes, walk softly, and refrain from talking while approaching the frog or newt. If there is a group, make sure not too many people try to approach the frogs at once., Approaching the frog or newt slowly will help with the quiet, as well as keep the frog or newt from recognizing any visual cues that you’re approaching.Frogs are able to recognize movement easily.Newts have very good vision as well, and can even re-grow their eyes if they are damaged!Newts are quieter than frogs, and you may have to look under stones and logs to find them., If you happen to scare the frog or newt away in your first approach, stay quiet and still. The frog will likely return, and there may be other frogs around. If you still hear other frogs, waiting will likely be productive for your search. For the newt, you may have to come back later and look., Some species of newt and frog are poisonous, and though it may be safe to touch them, if the toxins get into your bloodstream or in your mouth, it can be fatal.Even if they are not toxic, they often carry salmonella. It can make adults sick, and can sometimes be fatal to children under five, older people, and people with weakened immune systems.You can use hand sanitizer or some other disinfectant.If you handle a newt, it is important to wash your hands thoroughly with water, so that you get all the toxins off., It’s important to handle the frog or newt carefully if you handle them, and then gently put them back on the ground. Several newts and frogs are protected under the Endangered Species Act. Be careful if you have a dog or cat around frogs or newts, as they might attempt to eat them, which can be harmful to both the pet and the frog or newt.