 To begin your smoky eye look, choose a light shade of powdered eyeshadow that flatters your skin tone, such as a white, ivory, cream, beige, or tan. Use a brush or a sponge-tip applicator to apply it over the entire eye lid, from your upper lashline to under your brow. Dab a little in the inner corner of your eyes as well.








It’s best to use a matte shadow as your base shade.
 Start to add depth to your eye look by applying a medium dark tone to your eyelid with a flat shader brush or a sponge-tip applicator. Keep the shadow on the lower ¾’s of the lid, so your brow bone remains brightened by the base shade.








You may want to apply multiple layers of the medium dark shade to get it to the depth and intensity that you prefer.
 To really make your smoky eye look sultry and dramatic, you’ll want to work in an even darker shade. Use a pointed crease brush to work the shade into the outer corner of the eye. Start at the outer edge of the lash line and create a diagonal line toward the end of your brow. When you reach the crease, drag the brush inward to darken up that area. You’ll effectively create a “V” shape at the corner of your eye.








A black shadow would work with virtually any medium dark lid shade, but you can also use a darker tone from the same color family as the lid shade to keep the look monochromatic. For example, if you’ve used a gray shade on the lid, use a dark charcoal shade for the outer corner and crease.
Make sure to blend the dark shadow well, so there are no harsh lines or edges. You may want to switch to a clean, fluffy brush after you’re done applying the shadow to soften it.
If the dark shadow isn’t as dark as you’d like, layer it until you build it up to the intensity that you prefer.
 Use a creamy eyeliner pencil in black or another dark shade to add definition to your upper lashes, moving from the outer corner to the inner corner. Smudge out the liner, and then press a powder shadow in a similar color to the liner over it with a small pencil brush to darken it up further.








You can use a brush or a cotton swab to smudge the liner. It’s best not to use your finger, though, because it’ll give the look a messier feel than you’re going for. If you don’t have a brush or cotton swab, a sponge tip applicator can work.
 With the same pencil that you used on your upper lashline, line your lower lashes. Keep the liner as close to your lashline as possible, though. Next, use a brush or cotton swab to soften the line to give it a smokier look.








If you want a really sultry smoky eye, consider applying the dark eyeliner to your inside rim of your lower lash line, also known as the water line. Pull lightly on your lower lid to expose the area, and gently run the liner over it.
 Finish off your smoky eye by defining your lashes. Use an eyelash curler to curl your lashes, and apply several coats of your favorite black mascara. If you’ve used very dark shadows or just want a bolder look, though, you may want to Apply False Eyelashes to really add drama.








Don't forget to apply a little mascara to your lower lashes too.

