 To order checks from your bank, you'll need to visit your bank or credit union's website. If you've never visited their site before you can simply search online for your bank or credit union.


If you're ordering checks for the first time, you may need to visit your bank in person or call over the phone so that your bank can verify your identity and your account information.;
, If you already have an online account, simply enter your username or ID and password to access your banking page. If you're enrolling for the first time you'll need to confirm your identity, your account information, and you'll most likely need to choose a user ID and password, though the process will vary slightly by bank.


There will be some variance from one bank to another, but you'll most likely need to enter your account number, your ATM/debit card number, your ATM PIN, and part or all of your Social Security Number., Once again, there will be some variance from one bank's website to another. You will need to select either "my account," "checking account," or "accounts services," depending on your financial institution.


For Bank of America customers, you'll navigate to "Help & Support," then choose "Checking and savings accounts." From there, simply click "order checks," and you'll be able to customize the design of your checks.For Citizens Bank customers, navigate to the "Accounts Services" section and choose "order checks."For JPMorgan Chase customers, you'll click the "Customer Center" tab, navigate to "Manage Accounts," and choose "Order checkbooks or deposit slips."For TD Bank customers, select the "Customer Service" tab and choose "Order Checks."For Wells Fargo customers, select "Account Services" and click "Order Checks & Deposit Tickets.", Before you finalize your check order, you'll need to update any information that may have changed. If all your information is still the same, you'll simply need to confirm that your account details are correct.Verify your name and address. If you've moved since your last checks were ordered, or if you know you will be moving to a new address in the immediate future, be sure to update your address with the most current information. If you've changed your name (for example, after marriage), you'll want to update that information as well, though for name changes you may need to contact a bank representative over the phone or in person.
Verify your account number and/or routing number to confirm that you are ordering checks for the right checking account. If you have multiple checking accounts, ensure that you're choosing checks for the correct account.
 Once you've chosen your check design and updated/confirmed your information, you can finalize your order. The cost of ordering checks will vary from one bank to another, but should not be terribly expensive (usually around $25 or less).You may have to give your credit/debit card information, or your bank may allow you to withdraw the cost from your checking account. Then you'll simply wait for the new checks to arrive.


Your checks will arrive by mail. The time it takes for your checks to be printed and sent will vary, depending on your bank and the delivery options you choose. Some banks offer expedited shipping, but you will have to pay more for this option.Depending on your bank, you may be able to track your checks' delivery status online. Check under the "order checks" tab of your bank's online account section. If your bank offers this service, you should see something like "review order status."

