 In a wrongful death lawsuit, a deceased person’s survivors (or the person’s estate) brings a lawsuit seeking compensation for the wrongful death of a loved one. In order to sue, however, the loved one’s death must be wrongful, i.e., the fault of another person.Here are some common examples of wrongful death:


Your loved one was intentionally killed.For example, someone might have shot or stabbed your loved one. After the defendant is tried in criminal court for the murder, you can sue for wrongful death.
Your loved one was killed recklessly. If someone was driving 120 mph (190 km/h) and hit your loved one, then the defendant could be prosecuted for reckless homicide. You can also bring a wrongful death lawsuit against the defendant.
Your loved one was killed carelessly.The defendant might have “negligently” killed your loved one. A defendant acts negligently when he owes a duty to use reasonable care but fails to. For example, medical malpractice is a form of negligence.;
, To prove wrongful death, you need to establish what caused your loved one’s death. You should get a copy of the coroner’s report.


You can find the coroner’s contact information by looking online. You will probably have to submit a request to the coroner’s office in writing with the following information:your loved one’s name
the date of death
your name and contact information
your relationship to the deceased


You might have to pay a fee for a copy of the coroner’s report. You should call ahead and ask.
 You should also get copies of any police reports. If your loved one was murdered or killed in a car accident, then there may be police reports.


You can typically get a police report by visiting the county clerk’s office where the report was filed. You will probably have to pay a fee.Police reports also have the names of any relevant witnesses. You should certainly give the names of witnesses to your lawyer.
 You can be compensated for different kinds of “damages” suffered as a result of your loved one’s death. In particular, you can be compensated for lost income the loved one would have earned throughout his or her life.Your lawyer will want to see the following:


most recent tax returns
the deceased’s 1099 or W-2 forms from prior years
a list of employee benefits, e.g., 401(k) contributions, profit sharing, and medical benefits

, If your loved one was in the hospital for any amount of time, then you can probably be compensated for any treatment needed as a result of the defendant’s wrongful act.You should save the following:


hospital and doctor bills
receipts for prescription or over-the-counter medicines
receipts for supplies (such as bandages or walkers)
funeral expenses

, You can also be compensated for the emotional harm caused by the wrongful act. This harm can include the loss of companionship, love, and guidance to you and your children.When you are emotionally ready, you can compile a scrapbook of photographs which shows your life together with the deceased.
You and your children can also write letters explaining how and why you will miss the deceased. For example, your children might miss the guidance that a parent would provide them throughout their life. You can be compensated for this loss.
 Wrongful death lawsuits are very complicated and you will need a lawyer’s help to bring a lawsuit.Accordingly, you should schedule a consultation with a lawyer. At the consultation, you can discuss the strength of your case and how much the lawyer charges. When you look for an attorney, find one that specializes in wrongful death or medical malpractice cases. This area of the law can be extremely intricate and you will not want to pay for an attorney to learn it.


You can get a referral for a personal injury attorney by contacting your state’s bar association, which should have a referral program.
When you meet with attorneys before you hire them, ask about their experience with cases similar to yours. No question is off limits and you should ask about how many cases they have tried, how many they have won, and how many have gone to trial. In addition, ask each attorney about your specific case and gauge their ability to succinctly and easily answer your questions.
Be sure to discuss the lawyer’s fees. Most lawyers handle wrongful death cases on “contingency.” This means that the lawyer doesn’t charge you any fees upfront. Instead, he or she will agree to take a percentage of any amount you get in a settlement or win at trial. Typically, attorneys agree to take 25-50%.If you don’t win, then the lawyer doesn’t get any money. Contingency fee arrangements help put qualified attorneys within reach even if you have few resources.
 You should also talk with the lawyer about whether you can bring a wrongful death lawsuit in the first place. This will depend on your state’s law. States do not let just anybody bring wrongful death lawsuits. Typically, only certain family members can.


In most states, only a deceased’s spouse or children, or the parents of an unmarried child, can bring a wrongful death action. In some other states, more distant family members, e.g., siblings or grandparents, can bring a wrongful death lawsuit.In some other states, you don’t need to be a blood relative at all. Instead, you could sue if you suffered financially as a result of the wrongful death.
 If your loved one was killed due to the negligence of a medical professional, you will be suing under a theory of medical malpractice. Medical malpractice cases are different than normal tort cases in that you will often need a doctor to review and sign off on your case. In addition, the requisite standard of care in medical malpractice cases can be quite complex. Therefore, discuss these things with your attorney in order to get an idea of the attorney's comfort with them.


In many states, you will be required to file a "certificate of merit", which is a sworn statement by a doctor stating you have a valid case. The doctor will review your case files and determine if the doctor being sued likely breached the standard of care owed to the victim.In a medical malpractice case, the standard of care owed to a patient is usually that of a reasonable doctor in similar circumstances in the particular community. To establish that a doctor breached this duty, you will need to hire a number of expert witnesses to testify on your behalf., You will use this estimate throughout the legal process. For example, you will use it when you draft your complaint, try to settle outside of court, and when you go to trial. To estimate the amount of damages you should ask for, do the following computations:


Add together all of your economic damages. Economic damages are objectively verifiable monetary losses that include medical expenses, lost earnings, future lost income, and any loss of business opportunities.You can do this by collecting all of the victim's receipts and pay stubs for these various expenses.
Use a multiplier to estimate general damages. General damages are harder to quantify and will include "pain and suffering." Usually, the more serious and the longer lasting the pain and suffering, the higher the multiplier you use. The multiplier will generally be between 1.5 and 5. Once you determine what multiplier to use, you will multiply your economic damages by that number.Consider punitive damages, which are available in particularly egregious cases and are meant to punish the defendant.Add everything together to get an estimate. For example, assume the economic damages of the victim's death equaled $300,000 and you settled on the use of a 4 multiplier because the case is particularly serious and painful. In addition, you would like to ask for punitive damages in the amount of $1 million. When you add everything together, you get a damage estimate of $2.5 million ($300,000 + + $1,000,000). However, be aware that some states have caps on damages and you may not be able to recover the full amount of your estimate.
 You start the lawsuit by filing a “complaint.” A complaint is a legal document that identifies you and the defendant. It also describes the facts that gave rise to the wrongful death. In your complaint, you explain what injuries you have suffered and state how much compensation you want.Your lawyer should draft the complaint. After he or she drafts the complaint, you should ask for a copy. Try to get copies of all documents filed in your case.
 After the complaint is drafted, your lawyer will file it with the court. You will have to pay a filing fee.


Even if your lawyer is representing you on contingency, you usually have to pay court costs like filing fees. Your lawyer might advance you the costs of filing fees, as well as the cost of court reporters.The amount will be deducted from your settlement or jury award.
 Your lawyer also has to give the defendant notice that the lawsuit has been filed. He or she will send the defendant a copy of your complaint and some other legal documents.
 After receiving the complaint, the defendant has only 30 days or so to draft and file an “answer.”In the answer, the defendant admits, denies, or claims insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each factual allegation. You should ask your lawyer for a copy of the defendant’s complaint.


The answer is your first sneak peek at the defendant’s version of events. Typically, the defendant will claim that he or she is not responsible for the death. For example, if your loved one died in a car accident, then the defendant might claim that your loved one was really at fault.
If your loved one died in surgery, then the surgeon might argue that she didn’t do anything wrong and your loved one’s death was unavoidable.
 After the defendant files the answer, the lawsuit enters “discovery,” which is the fact-finding phase. The purpose of discovery is for each side to request and exchange information that might be helpful at trial. The most common discovery techniques are:Requests for Production. Your lawyer can request any document from the defendant so long as it is slightly related to the case. For example, if your loved one died during surgery, your lawyer can request all medical records and notes made by the doctor.
Interrogatories. Your lawyer can send written questions to the defendant, who answers them under oath. For example, your lawyer might ask a doctor if she has been sued for medical malpractice before and to list the cases if she has.
Depositions. Your lawyer can also ask witnesses questions face-to-face in a deposition. The witness answers the questions under oath. If, for some reason, the witness can’t appear at trial, your lawyer might be able to introduce the deposition testimony instead.
 As the deceased’s survivor and the person bringing the lawsuit, you will certainly have to give a deposition. The deposition will probably be held in a law office. A court reporter will record your answers. Remember these tips for giving an effective deposition:Listen closely to the question. If you don’t understand the question, ask for clarification.
Always tell the truth. It is illegal to lie under oath, so always be absolutely truthful.
Try to stay calm and polite. Depositions can drag on for hours, and sometimes lawyers can become aggressive. If you start to feel angry, ask for a break. You can also ask to confer with your lawyer at any time.
Don’t guess or estimate. If you don’t know the exact answer, then you should say, “I don’t know.”

, The defendant might try to win the case before going to trial. One way he or she can do that is to file a motion for summary judgment. Don’t be surprised if the defendant files one.


The defendant will argue that no trial is necessary because there are no “material” facts in dispute. A “material” fact is a meaningful fact, such as whether a defendant slowed down when approaching an intersection. That fact goes directly to an issue in dispute: whether the defendant was negligent when he struck your loved one in the crosswalk.
The defendant will argue that because there are no issues in dispute he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.Your lawyer will oppose the summary judgment motion. He or she will argue that factual and legal issues are in dispute and that you need a trial to resolve them.
 The defendant (or the defendant’s insurance company) might approach your lawyer about settling the lawsuit. You should give serious consideration to settling. If you settle, you can avoid an emotional trial and be guaranteed some compensation.


You should discuss with your lawyer the strength of your case. If you have a very strong case, then you might not want to settle unless the defendant can offer an amount close to what you are suing for. If your evidence is weaker, you might be willing to settle for less.
You have a right to be notified of all settlement offers. Also, the decision whether to settle is yours alone., Mediation is a form of alternative dispute resolution where you and the defendant meet with a third-party with the intention of working out your differences and coming to a solution. The third-party is not a judge and is not there to take sides. They will listen to both sides and try to find common ground. Mediation is not binding on the parties and is usually worth a try considering it can save you a lot of money.However, if you have a particularly strong wrongful death case, you should never settle for less than what you believe you are owed.
 You may want a jury trial. You should talk with your lawyer about whether a jury trial is in your best interests. Your lawyer might think that a jury will be more sympathetic to you than to the defendant. However, some evidence shows that you are more likely to win a medical malpractice case with a bench trial as opposed to a jury trial.If you choose to take a jury, then you will need to select one in a process called “voir dire.”


During voir dire, the judge calls a panel of prospective jurors to the front of the court room to sit in the jury box. The judge then asks them questions. For example, the judge will try to get basic background information, such as their job, hobbies, whether they are married, etc.
Your lawyer might also be able to ask them questions. The purpose of “voir dire” is to find out if jurors are biased against you. If a juror admits bias, or if a juror knows you or the defendant, then you can ask the judge to dismiss the juror “for cause.”
Your lawyer will also get a certain number of “peremptory” challenges.Your lawyer can use these to exclude a juror without having to give the judge a reason. For example, if you are suing a doctor for wrongful death, then your lawyer might want to dismiss any prospective juror who works in a hospital or a doctor’s office.
 Because you brought the lawsuit, your lawyer will present evidence first. You can call witnesses and introduce documents into evidence. Your lawyer might call the following as witnesses:


Anyone who witnessed the wrongful act. For example, if the defendant is a doctor who committed malpractice, then you might call other people who were in the operating room, such as nurses, doctors, or anesthesiologists.
Medical experts. These experts will testify whether or not the defendant’s conduct caused the death. If the defendant is a professional, such as a doctor, then the witness can offer their opinion of whether the defendant’s conduct violated professional standards.Police. If any police officers responded to the scene of a crime or an accident, then they may be called to testify.
 You will also have to testify at trial. If you gave a deposition, then you will have some experience answering questions under oath. The experience at trial might not be very different, although more people will be in the room. To give effective testimony, remember the following:


Sit up straight. Don’t slouch. Instead, look at the attorney asking you questions. When you answer, turn to the jury and make eye contact.If you become emotional, you can ask the judge if you can take a short recess.
Don’t guess. If you don’t know the answer, then say so.Speak clearly so that the court reporter and jury can hear you.Answer using words, not gestures or phrases like “uh huh” or “hmmmm.”

, The defendant presents evidence after you finish. He or she will probably present witnesses and also testify as well. Your attorney can ask the defense witness questions during cross-examination.
 After all evidence has been submitted, each lawyer gets to make a closing argument. The purpose is to explain how the evidence presented actually supports your case.


As the person bringing the lawsuit, you have the burden of proof. In a wrongful death lawsuit, you need to prove it is “more likely than not” that the defendant caused the death of your loved one.If you took a bench trial, then the judge might want your lawyer to write a legal brief instead of giving a closing argument. In the brief, your lawyer will discuss the current law and explain how the facts support a verdict in your favor.
 In a jury trial, the judge reads instructions to the jury. The jury then retires for deliberations.


In almost half of all states, the jury does not need to be unanimous.Instead, you could win if nine or 10 out of 12 jurors decide in your favor.
In a bench trial, the judge might take the issue under consideration and deliver a ruling at a later date.

