 The format and content of your request will depend on the type of request you are making and from whom you are requesting the contract. The more information that you have, the easier it will be to identify the contract for the recipient of your request. Although not all contracts are written, many different types of contracts are required to be in writing.For instance, you should have the names of all parties and companies that are parties to the contract.
You should know at least the approximate date that the contract was signed. Even a month or year is helpful if you can’t recall the exact date.
You also should describe the content of the contract as specifically as possible. This includes the type of contract, which, for example, could be a lease, rental agreement, contract for services, or employment contract. Also identify the subject of the contract, whether it be services, personal property, goods purchased, or rental of a piece of equipment or a physical address.
Be sure to specify that you want a signed copy of the contract. An unsigned copy won’t do you any good if you are trying to enforce your rights under the contract. You will need to be able to prove that both parties actually signed the contract., Some state laws require that you be given a copy of a signed lease agreement or other type of contract. The Consumer Credit Act also requires, for example, that you be given a copy of a credit agreement upon request. In other states, giving you a copy of a contract is not required, although it is a good practice to do so. In any case, if you are a party to the contract, you are entitled to have a copy of it for your records., Call, visit, send the e-mail, or mail the letter. When sending a letter or an e-mail, you may wish to use a delivery method that will allow you to confirm receipt by the other party, such a certified mail return receipt or an e-mail delivery receipt, for example.
 If you do not receive a reply within 10 days, call and ask if there is any more information that you can provide in order to expedite your request. You also may wish to ask how long you can expect it to take to receive the contract.

