 Instead of thinking that you are a nerd, think positively of your grades. Remember, those who do well at school will do better later on in life.;
, Showing that you're social will definitely keep people from thinking you're a nerd.
 It's okay to spend a bit of money sometimes, but spend it on the right stuff. Showing you have a nice style will show people that you know how to dress and aren't a nerd. Huge glasses are a definite no. If you need glasses, get ones that have smaller lenses and a nice frame. Even better, switch to contacts. The black rimmed glasses are okay if they are small.
, If you're in a gifted program, you'll find yourself surrounded with a lot of nerds.
 If you tell everyone that you made an A when nobody else did, then people will see you as a nerd or a suck-up. If you have a high grade on a test, tell people you did, "okay". Never lie about your grades, or do poorly on a test in order to appear average. (This is difficult with some people as they might be annoyed with you for downplaying a higher grade than they got).
 They really don't like it and other people hate it.
 These make it look like you are hiding something. There's nothing wrong with being able to use English.
 (Don't change your goals/ inner person) Be who you are, and be proud of it.
 People will see you as desperate and ignore you, or worse, make fun.
 Use some of the same language patterns, but say it nonchalantly, as if you talk like that all the time.
 At anything. It's great to be passionate, but there is a fine line between the two. Trying too hard is being obsessive about doing good, being liked, etc. Being passionate is getting involved, helping out, and focusing.
 You don't have to be great at it; do something easy like volleyball or biking. Horseback riding (*sigh* my true passion...) is awesome, fun, and anyone can be good at it. (Not everyone is great at it, but you can still be good. The key: Balance.)

, Don't throw up, under eat, or smoke to be skinny(or cool). Jog, walk your dog(s) or other peoples', or simply walk.
 If you have a problem with impulse eating, talk to your doctor. Until then, keep your kitchen stocked with healthy, easy snacks. Instead of ice cream, try frozen yogurt. Hungry for hard candy? Eat some cashews or unsalted almonds.
 And if someone accepts your invite to your house, make them a yummy snack (cookies, s'mores, etc.). DO NOT show them all your collections, if you have them. (Or your grades/ papers you may have saved.) Instead, introduce them to your pet (if you have any) or favorite art/ books. If you do invite someone over, make it a person who shares the same interests. Maybe a person from drama or book club.

