 To make a zipper pattern bracelet you will need three different colors of thread. One of the colors will act as the base for the bracelet, and won't be visible in the final product. Aside from the thread, you will need a few more things.Make sure you have something to secure the thread with. A clipboard works well for this, but you could also use tape, or a safety pin.Keep some scissors on hand so you can cut the thread when you need to., The amount of thread you need will depend on what you are making, who you are making it for, and what kind of knot you are using. Start working with several feet of thread, and periodically measure your bracelet until you reach the right length.Cut two threads of each color you decide to use. Make all the threads the same length.Put all the threads together and tie a knot a few inches from one end. When you've finished your bracelet, these loose ends will serve as ties., If you are using a clipboard, secure your bracelet just beneath the knot. If you are using tape, find a flat surface and tape the knot of your bracelet down., Divide your threads by color. You should have one color on the left, one in the middle, and one on the right., Take the color on the left (L) and bring it over the color in the middle (M). The threads should look something like the number "4."Take thread L and bring it through the loop you just created. Pull the thread tight until the knot is secure at the top. This is the first hitch in a forward/backward knot.The threads have now switched place. Take color L, which is now in the middle, and bring it over color M, which is now on the left. The threads should look something like the letter "P." This is a mirror image of the first hitch you made.Bring thread L through the loop you just made, and pull the thread tight until the knot is secure at the top. This is the second hitch in a forward/backward knot. The threads should now be back in the same position as they were in the beginning., Start with the color on the right (R). You will be doing the reverse of the knot you just tied. This knot is called a backward/forward knot. Bring color R over color M. You should have something that looks like the letter "P."Bring color R through the loop you just made, and pull the thread tight until the knot is secure at the top. Then, place color R, which is now in the middle, over color M. Pull color R through the loop, and pull the knot tight.After the second knot is complete, your threads should be back in the starting position., The zipper pattern bracelet is one continuous series of forward/backward knots, and backward/forward knots. Continue tying your knots until your bracelet is the desired length., Once you've reached the desired length, take the threads and tie them in a knot at the end of your zipper pattern. Leave some excess thread to tie your bracelet on, and cut off the rest.
,