 There are many different types of publications. Where you submit your piece will depend on what type of article you have written. If you write fiction, you will want to submit your article to a literary journal.Start by doing your research. Use the internet to search for literary journals.
Look at the website for each journal. Browse some of the past issues. This will give you a good idea of what types of articles that particular journal publishes.
Head to the library. Ask the reference librarian to help you find a complete list of literary journals. Make sure that the journal you are interested in accepts unsolicited submissions.;
, If you are a scholar, your article will usually be best placed in an academic journal. These publications are typically categorized very specifically by topic. They also generally require a very rigorous review process.Make sure that your research fits the scope of the journal. For example, if you are a scholar of European history, do not submit your article to a journal that focuses solely on East Asian history.
Verify that the publication is peer-reviewed. This means that other scholars will review your work.
Be aware that it may take a while to receive an answer from the editor. The review process for academic journals can often take several months.
 A personal essay is non-fiction. It can be a story about your own experiences. The most effective personal essays are ones that many different types of people can relate to.There are several different types of publications that publish personal essays. Make sure to choose one who's readers might be interested in your story.
Many newspapers publish personal essays in the magazine section of the paper. Major papers such as The Boston Globe and The New York Times publish these types of pieces.
You might also consider submitting your essay to an online magazine. Popular publications such as Slate and Salon offer their readers essays on a wide variety of topics.
Send a pitch to the appropriate editor. For example, if you want to write an essay about politics, send an e-mail to the editor at Slate who works on political topics.
 An op-ed is an opinion piece. It differs from a personal essay, which might just be telling a story. With an op-ed, you are taking a definitive stance on an issue and trying to persuade readers that you are correct.Op-ed pieces are typically fairly brief. A common op-ed is usually between 400-1200 words.
Most newspapers accept op-ed pieces on a variety of topics. You can find specific guidelines on the newspaper's website.
Make your piece topical. If your op-ed is timely, it will have a better chance of being published. For example, a piece about veterans services might be appropriate to submit around Memorial Day.
 You want to make sure that your work appears in a reputable publication. For example, you don't want to publish in a journal or magazine that has a reputation for publishing sub-par material. Do some research before submitting your pitch or article.Try to avoid predatory publications. These are journals who charge exorbitant author fees and will publish almost anything.
Academics often feel pressure to publish regularly. It's important not to be lured by promises of publication in exchange for high fees. These publications typically do not have rigorous standards.
Fiction writers can also find magazines that will publish in exchange for money. These publications are typically not highly regarded. If you are asked for money before your article appears, consider whether this is the right venue for your work.
Some publications that charge author fees are reputable. If you feel a fee is appropriate, make sure that you pay it using the specified method.

