 It is important to start with clean skin because dirt and bacteria can get into the pores where you have plucked the hair and cause breakouts. Additionally, you will probably be touching your face with your hands, so it’s good to start with a clean palette.


Use a mild facial cleanser and lukewarm running water. Begin by splashing a bit of water on your face so it is wet. Then apply a dime-sized amount of cleanser. Use your fingertips to gently massage the cleanser onto your face using circular motions. When you are finished, rinse the skin thoroughly using fresh, lukewarm, running water.
If you don’t have time to wash your face properly, you can also apply a bit of toner or micellar water to a cotton ball and gently swipe it all over your face to remove some of the bacteria and dirt on your skin.
Don’t forget to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before touching your face!;
, Your pores will already be a bit more open if you have washed your face. However, applying a warm wet washcloth to the skin will help open up the pores even more. You want your pores to be as open as possible. This will make it easier to pull out the hair.


If you have just showered, you can skip this step as your pores will be open from the heat of the shower.
Make sure the warm washcloth is not too hot. You want to open your pores, but you don’t want to burn your skin.
 Wet skin can make it difficult to grasp the hairs; therefore, it is important to make sure you dry your skin well. Use a clean towel, and gently pat your skin dry.


Avoid rubbing your skin to dry it. This can cause irritation and redness.
 Applying a talcum powder to the skin where you plan to pluck will help remove any excess moisture, but it will also make it easier to see the hair.


Just take a tiny amount of powder and gently rub it onto the skin using your fingers. You don’t need to rub it in completely, just enough so that it sticks.
Talcum power comes in lots of products, but you may know talcum powder as “baby powder.” If you don’t want to use talcum powder, you can use a different product such as corn starch or even a bit of powdered foundation that will make the hair stand out from your skin.
 You may not realize it, but there are actually three different types of tweezers. Slanted tweezers are great for plucking hair. The end of this tweezer will be flat, but will be slanted down at an angle. This is ideal for plucking hairs, especially if they grow close to the skin.Other types of tweezers include needle-nosed tweezers and a hybrid version which is pointed at the tip, but also has a slanted edge. You may be able to manage plucking a stray hair with these in a pinch, but having a pair of slanted tweezers for regular use will be ideal.
To be extra careful, you can clean your tweezers with a bit of rubbing alcohol before each plucking session.
 If you are trying to pluck all the hairs in a particular area (e.g. your chin or above your lip), this may not be necessary. However, if you’re plucking an area where you want to leave some hairs behind (e.g. eyebrows), drawing guidelines can help keep you from overplucking.


There are different ways to do this. For example, if you are trying to shape your eyebrows, use a brow pencil and shape your eyebrows the way that you want them to look. Then, all you have to do is pluck the hairs that stand outside of the desired shape.
You can also use a makeup pencil that contrasts with your skin. For example, if you are trying to shape your sideburns into a particular shape, you can use the pencil to draw the guidelines. Then, simply pluck the hairs that are on the wrong side of the line and leave the rest.
 When you’re ready to pluck a hair, use the tweezers to grab the hair as close to the base as possible. Then, pull the hair quickly from the skin in the direction it grows. This will make the hair come out as easily as possible.


If you pull the hair in the opposite direction that it grows, you will probably experience more pain than necessary as it is more difficult to pull the hair out this way.
Do your best to grab the hair as close to the base as possible without pinching your skin. This will make the process as painless as possible. Additionally, if you don’t grab it from the base, the hair may simply break off when you pull leaving you with stubble.
 You may think you should use a magnified mirror so that you can see every little hair, but this can lead to overplucking. Instead, use a mirror that is in a very well-lit area.If you can’t see the hair easily in front of a well-lit mirror, then neither can anyone else.
 If your plucking the hairs while sitting or standing very close to a mirror, there is a danger that you will lose sight of the bigger picture (your face), and overpluck. This is especially true if you are plucking your eyebrows, and you want them to be even.


Pluck a few hairs and then lean back to take in your whole face. When it comes to plucking eyebrows and sideburns especially, less is more. Check after every few hairs to make sure you aren’t overdoing it.
 This will help soothe your skin where you have plucked the hairs, and it will also help to reduce redness and inflammation. You don’t need to wash your face with soap again, just simply splash the cool water on, and pat the skin dry gently.


If you don’t want to dry the skin with a towel, you can also let it air dry.
 Aloe vera is commonly sold in stores to treat sunburns, but it has many other uses. If you have a bottle of Aloe vera, rub a tiny amount onto the skin where you have plucked to help get rid of any pain and redness.If you have an Aloe vera plant at home, you can cut off a tip of one of the leaves and use the clear gel that comes out. This is the same thing they sell in stores, but it doesn’t have any of the added chemicals and colorings of commercial products.
 If you are feeling a lot of pain after plucking, applying a cold compress to the area will feel soothing, and may also be helpful in reducing any inflammation.


If you are using a cold compress or ice cubes, be sure to wrap them in a towel. Applying something that cold directly to the skin can cause an ice burn, which is just as painful and dangerous as a burn caused by heat., If you are worried about swelling, you can apply an over the counter cortisone cream to the area. This will help reduce swelling.Be careful when applying a cortisone around the eye. If it gets in your eye, it could cause irritation.

