 One of the easiest ways to treat vibration hives is to avoid things that cause a breakout. Once you determine what causes hives to appear, make a note of it so you can try to stay away from it in the future.This might mean changing your routines. If you get vibration hives from playing the drums or trumpet, you may have to stop that activity.
You may also have to get other people to do certain things for you, like mowing the grass.;
, Antihistamines may be an effective treatment against vibration hives. Over-the-counter medicines like Benadryl, Chlor-Trimeton, Claritin, Allegra, and Zyrtec may be helpful.Depending on the severity of your reaction, your doctor may prescribe prescription antihistamines.
Your doctor may recommend you to take antihistamines regularly to help prevent hives if they are reoccurring. You may also take antihistamines if you know you are going to do an activity that will lead to vibration hives.
Some antihistamines may not work if the hives are delayed., Depending on the kinds of hives you have, you may be able to apply a topical treatment. These treatments are aimed at stopping itching or painful symptoms.Try an anti-itch cream or salve. You may also place a cold compress on the affected area.
 Since breakouts can be painful, itchy, or uncomfortable, you can learn how to ease some of that while you are facing a breakout. Treat your skin gently when you are experiencing a breakout. Refrain from touching it roughly, aggravating it, or scratching it too much.Use warm water instead of hot if you take a shower.
Wash with mild soaps. If possible, avoid soaps for as long as possible.
Wear loose clothing over the affected areas.
 If you believe you have vibration hives, you can see an allergist to diagnose the condition. The doctor will do some tests to the skin to see how it responds to vibration stimuli.The doctor may place a vibrating device against your skin to see how it responds. If your skin breaks out in hives, it’s a positive diagnosis.
Your doctor may advise you to combine treatments or use preventative treatments to manage the hives.
Talk to your doctor about the severity of your vibration-induced hives. Some urticaria causes severe symptoms, like breathing problems, swollen throats, light-headedness, and even loss of consciousness. If you react this way, talk to your doctor about getting an EpiPen.