 With all of the technology available today, it can be difficult to unplug from the digital world. However, if you're serious about improving your relationship on a romantic vacation, you'll need to do just that.Agree to turn off your cell phones and laptops for the majority of the day. You might compromise on some online time in the morning or evening, but try to focus on spending time together.
If something comes up from home or work and you need to take a phone call or respond to an email, let your partner know the situation and ask their permission first. This lets your partner know that you're trying to take their feelings into consideration.
 Engaging in new activities as a couple can help strengthen relationships. That's because the excitement of doing something new together allows you to feel like you did when you first started dating.Try an exciting activity like hiking, parasailing, or taking a dance class together.
Any activity that increases your heart rate and releases adrenaline will help you feel the excitement you felt when your relationship was new.
In addition to new activities, you can start a new ongoing hobby for future vacations. For example, you might start collecting souvenir snow globes everywhere you visit together., Many couples like to do relaxing, pampering activities that they wouldn't normally engage in at home. This is nothing to feel guilty about.In fact, pampering activities can actually foster a greater sense of intimacy in some couples.Take a spa day together or get a couple's massage.
Engaging in relaxing, pampering activities will help you both relax. This relaxed energy between you can strengthen your bond and improve your relationship.
 One way to build intimacy on your vacation is to do something romantic with your partner every day. This may be a grandiose gesture, like going out to a world-class restaurant, or it may be as simple as holding hands while walking along the beach to watch the sunset.


Ask your partner for input on what they'd like to do. You can surprise your partner with a few romantic gestures, but you should also let your partner have a say in what you do together.You can insert romance into your daily routine with little gestures like holding hands while you walk or snuggling during downtime.
 Physical intimacy is an important component in most relationships. You and your partner may have difficulties coordinating your schedules at home, but on vacation you should make time to express your love in physical ways.Try experimenting with your partner. Having sex in new ways can help improve your satisfaction with your love life.Set a romantic mood by lighting candles and bringing massage oils. You can buy electronic candles to reduce the risk of a fire in your hotel room.
See this as an opportunity to be more adventurous in your physical intimacy. For example, you might ask your partner what their fantasies are and act them out together.
 As relationships go on, many couples lose the sense of affection they once had for each other. However, these displays of affection are important for most healthy adult relationships, and vacation time is the perfect opportunity to bring these rituals back into your daily lives.Expressions of love can be verbal or nonverbal, and there are many ways to show your partner that you care.


Say kind, affectionate things to your partner on a regular basis. Tell your partner you love them every day, and make it a habit to compliment your partner (for example, by saying, "You look really beautiful.").
You can also express affection with acts of kindness.Even little gestures, like making or bringing coffee for your partner in the morning, can help improve your relationship.Bring some romantic souvenir from your past. For example, you could bring a bottle of the wine you drank on your first date (if you're old enough to legally drink), or you could bring commemorative wine glasses from your wedding.Expressing your affection for one another, both verbally and through gestures, is particularly important if your relationship has been struggling., Part of planning your vacation together should include a conversation about what you think your relationship could benefit the most from. Then you can focus your efforts on improving that facet of your relationship. For example, you might focus on making time to talk and listen to one another, increasing your physical intimacy, or focusing on mutual hobbies and interests.


Ask your partner for input on what they think would most benefit your relationship.
Plan out your itinerary accordingly, making sure that both of you feel like you're collaborating on the most important aspects of your relationship.

