 The strands at the base of your loop will still likely be woven tightly together. You can loosen these by twisting the rope until strands separate or by using a tool, like a small screwdriver or fid, to break them apart. Then:









Divide the now loosened strands at the base of your rope into three strands. If you are using a three strand rope, you won't have to do anything, but you may have to gather excess strands together into three for 4+ strand ropes.
Separate your three loosened strands at the base of your loop into near (closest to you), middle (in between the two other strands), and far (the farthest strand from you) strands.
Feed any one of your end strands above the near and far strands but below the middle strand at the base of your loop. This will pass your end strand through the loosened strands of the main body of the rope.
 Your next end strand will pass under the near strand at the base of your loop and up through the space between the near and mid strands. After that, pull the end strand through so it emerges through and out of the space between the near and middle strand.
 Your end strand should first pass over your loop. Then tuck it under the far strand so it passes between the middle and far strands. Pull the end strand through the gap between middle and far strands.
 You should pull your end strands through the loosened strands at the base of your loop. Do this until the taped off rope at the bottom of your end strands meets the loosened strands at the base of your loop.









You'll want both your end strands and the loosened strands at the base of your loop to be firm and tight at this point in your splice.
 You'll need to loosen the weave of the main body of your rope to do so. At the next twisting of strands after the base of your loop, use your fingers or a tool, like a screwdriver or fid, to break them apart. Then, you'll need to:









Separate your newly loosened strands into near, middle, and far strands, much like you did before at the base of your loop.
Take the end strand that fed under your original far strand and bring it over your new far strand and under your new middle and near strands.
Take the end strand that fed under your original near strand and bring it under your new near strand and over the middle and far strands.
Take the remaining end strand and bring it under and through your new middle strand., In rope tying, a tuck refers to a rope or strand passing around another rope or strand. Due to the slipperiness of modern synthetic rope materials, using less than five tucks in your weave can cause your splice to slip.








Your weaving will follow the pattern described, with each end strand tucking around and through the near, middle, and far strands of the rope after loosening.

