 Pour the olive oil into a large, heavy skillet and heat on the stove using medium to medium-high heat.


You need a hot skillet in order to brown the beef and create the sauce.
 Place the cubed potatoes on the bottom, followed by the carrots, celery, and onion.


The potatoes should be peeled, rinsed, and cut. The remaining vegetables should also be cleaned and cut.
 Sprinkle the beef with a dash of salt and pepper.


Rinse the beef and pat it dry before seasoning it.
You can purchase pre-cut beef from the butcher's department at most grocery stores. Alternatively, you could cut a whole chuck roast or bottom round cut into 1-in (2.5-cm) pieces.
 Place the beef in the skillet of hot oil and cook, uncovered, until browned on all sides.


This should take about 5 to 7 minutes. Stir the beef frequently so that all sides are browned.
The beef does not need to be browned beforehand, but doing so creates a more complex flavor and prevents the grease from causing it to clump up in the crock pot later on.
 Add the garlic to the hot pan and cook for 1 minute until fragrant.


If using pre-minced garlic, use 1 1/2 tsp (7.5 ml). If using garlic powder, use about 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml).
Do not let the garlic burn.
 Transfer the contents of the skillet to the slow cooker, including both the beef and garlic.


Make sure that the beef is on top of the vegetables. You do not need to stir the beef and vegetables together.
 Add the butter to the skillet and let it melt. Also add the beef broth, red wine, beer, tomato paste, sugar, soy sauce, and thyme. Boil for 2 minutes and let simmer an additional 10 minutes.


Use a wooden spoon to stir the ingredients together, scraping the bottom of the pan, as well. The liquid deglazes the pan, lifting off more flavor.
Let the sauce boil over medium heat for 2 minutes.
Reduce the heat to low and let simmer for 10 minutes.
Season with an additional dash of salt and pepper. Stir well to mix.
 In a separate bowl, mix the cornstarch and water together. Stir this slurry into the sauce and heat to a boil briefly.


Once the sauce reaches a boil, the cornstarch should cause it to thicken.
 Pour the sauce into the crock pot, allowing it to seep in between the vegetables and beef.


Wedge the bay leaves in between the cubes of beef on the surface of the slow cooker.
 Alternatively, cook the stew on High for 4 to 6 hours.


Keep the slow cooker covered as the stew cooks. Removing the lid will cause heat to escape, thereby disrupting the cooking process.
 Remove the bay leaves and pour the stew into individual serving bowls.


Leave the crock pot on Low or Warm until everyone has been served.
If necessary, skim the fat off the surface of the stew before serving it.

