 During the late summer, look at the underside of the fronds, or leaves, of adult ferns. You should see brown spots or lines. These are the sporangia. Collect the spores from these sections of the fern using plain sheets of paper.Clip a full or partial frond off the plant and place it in between two clean sheets of plain white paper. Lay it in a warm, dry, and draft-free area for one to two weeks. Open the paper after this time to see the dried remains of the frond.
You will need to separate the spores from the debris by holding the bottom sheet of paper at an angle and gently tapping it. The debris should fall off, but the spores should stick to the paper.
After removing the debris, fold the paper in half and tap the folded edge against a surface using a little more strength. The spores should fall into the fold, and you can collect them from there.
Ideally, the spots or lines on the frond you collect will be the shade of rich cinnamon brown.
Even though this should be done in the late summer for ferns in temperate regions, ferns grown in tropical regions are different and can be collected from at any time of the year.;
, Use light, high quality soil. Moisten it with a little water.


Use a clear plastic container with a lid. These containers are your best option if you want an adequate amount of humidity to build inside.
The soil should not be soaking wet. Ideally, it should be just a little moist and springy to the touch.
 To quickly and easily destroy any harmful germs in the soil, microwave the containers of soil for three to five minutes on full power.


The soil should begin to steam. Make sure that the container does not start melting in the microwave, though.
You should allow the soil to cool for a full hour after microwaving it. Do not add the spores to hot soil.
 Gently disperse a few spores on top of the soil without pressing them in or covering them.


After spreading the spores onto the soil, you should be able to hold the container up to the light and see a few of the light, dusty spores floating around the top of the soil's surface.
 Place the containers in a sunny location and let the spores sit in the soil for six to eight weeks. Keep the soil slightly moist until you see small plants that spread 3/8 inch (9.5 mm) across.


If you are in the Northern Hemisphere, place the containers in a window that faces north and keep them close to the glass. If you end up using a window that faces south, keep the containers back from the glass by about 1 foot (30.5 cm).
The small plants that push through the soil are called "prothallia."
Note that any prothallia that grow too close together will need to be thinned out. Keep one or two for every 3-inch (7.6-cm) area of soil. If the plants are kept too close together, only male organs will grow, and the prothallia will not be able to fertilize each other.
Check the soil every week to make sure that it has not dried out.
 Moisten the leaves that have emerged on a regular basis. Doing so will make it easier for the male part of the plant to fertilize the female part.


The prothallia should grow male and female organs once they reach 3/8 inch (9.5 mm). The male organs will naturally fertilize the female organs, and a small fern called a "Sporophyte" should appear. None of this can happen, however, if the prothallia are not sprinkled or misted with water on a daily to bi-daily basis.
 Once actual ferns begin to pop up from the soil, thin them out until the plants are about 3 inches (7.6 cm) apart.


The first full frond will be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) tall. Once they reach this height, you need to thin them out as described.
 When spring starts, open the top of your fern containers for a few hours each day. Continue this over a span of two weeks or so. Doing this will allow the ferns to adjust to the harsh, dry outside air.


You need to give the ferns a full two weeks to adjust. Each time you open the containers, you should leave them open for a little longer than the last time.
If the ferns begin to weaken during this period of adjustment, close the containers again and let the ferns fully recover. Try again once the ferns are healthy again.
 You can transplant the ferns you started from spores or choose fully grown ferns from a nursery or garden supply store. Either way, the process will be the same from this point on.


The species you should consider buying will vary based on the region you live in, but if you buy from a local nursery or grow ferns from locally collected spores, you should not have much difficulty figuring out which species can grow in your climate.
Within the United States, southern coastal states can usually grow tropical ferns. Southwest states can handle species that can thrive in low humidity. States in the midwest, northeast, mid-atlantic, and upper southern regions usually support woodland varieties.
Check on any specific requirements your fern variety needs. Those listed here are only general requirements and do not necessarily cover all of your specific variety's needs.
 The best time to plant varies by region. For the most part, spring planting is preferable. If you live in a tropical climate or in a region that does not get any winter frosts, fall planting will actually be better.Ferns planted too late in the season could experience root rot, especially if you live in a region with cold winters. The freezing and thawing process can wear away at the roots and gradually break them apart.
In warm climates, planting ferns before the summer can result in plants that are stressed by the heat and drought of summer.
 While each species has its own requirements, in general, you should choose a location that receives plenty of shade.Ideally, you should avoid placing taller ferns in areas of strong wind, but shorter varieties might be able to handle these conditions. If you are concerned, however, you could also place the ferns by a building or other structure to help shield them from some of the winds.
You should also avoid planting ferns directly on top of tree roots.
 Most ferns prefer soil that is free draining and filled with plenty of nutrient-rich organic material. Chop these materials into the intended planting site a day to a week in advance.


Most ferns have fine roots, and these roots can struggle in heavy, compact soils. Ideally, your soil needs to be loose and should not get waterlogged easily.
Use materials like organic leaf mold, shredded bark chips, organic compost, well-rotted farm manure, or gravel. Do not use fresh manure, however, since the roots of your fern can be sensitive and may die if given too much fertilizer so soon.
 The hole you dig in the soil should be a little larger than the root ball of the fern. The depth should be the same, but the width should be a little larger.


You need to give the fern a generous root ball as you move it.
If you use a fern that has already been started in a large pot or container, carefully tip the container onto its side and knock the plant out. Slowly shake the roots out of the bottom of the pot.
You should remove excess potting soil used in other containers if that soil differs from that of your garden. These soils might be lighter and may dry out faster, and as a result, the newly planted fern may not get enough moisture after you move it into the soil of your garden unless this old soil has been knocked away first.
 Firmly pack soil around the edges to keep the fern in place. Water the soil well, and make sure that everything feels secure.


Carefully spread out the roots of the fern using your fingers. Mix some of the original potting soil into the root area and water it thoroughly before you place it into the hole you dug. This is especially important if the soil of the original container differs from the soil of your garden.
 If you receive plenty of rain, you may not need to water your ferns very often. If you are experiencing something of a drought, though, you should give the plants a drink regularly. Never let the soil dry out completely.Throughout the entire first growing season, you should water the ferns once or twice a week if the soil feels dry.
Stop your watering routine in the autumn to prevent the roots from getting waterlogged.
Note that after its first full year, you will usually need to water ferns very sparingly and only if your area has faced a notable drought.
 Pack composted leaves or pine needles around the base of the ferns. The layer should be about 2 inches (10 cm) thick.


Mulch can help hold in some of the moisture, thereby preventing the roots from drying out. Additionally, the extra shade provided from the mulch should also keep the soil cool even in very hot temperatures.
 As soon as new growth has developed on the ferns, you should apply a slow-release fertilizer to the soil. Most ferns are fairly sensitive to fertilizers, so you do not want to add too much too quickly.
 You will rarely run across pests with most ferns, but you might have to deal with a slug or two. Use an appropriate pesticide to fight back as soon as the problem gets out of hand.


For an organic solution, use diatomaceous earth or an organic slug bait. Dishes of beer sunk into the soil around the fern can also work as a slug killer.
You can scatter grapefruit shells around the ferns. Slugs will gather onto these peels, and once this happens, you can dispose of them by dipping the shells into denatured alcohol.
Ferns tend to be sensitive too chemical insecticides. If you do use a chemical, test it on a few plants before applying it to all of them. Stick with dusts and sprays made with wettable powders and reduce the recommended dosage by half. Avoid liquid emulsion sprays that contain oils.
 When you see dead or dying leaves on your fern, clip them off. Removing dead debris will keep the plant healthier and make it easier for the fern to dedicate more of its resources to expanding its foliage., After the first killing frost of fall or early winter comes, you should cut back the fronds. Apply a heavy winter mulch to keep the roots nice and warm, as well.


Good options for a winter mulch include salt marsh hay and evergreen boughs.

