;
, More or less depending on what you like. This will round the corners of your shape.
 Move the nodes further apart in the top left hand corner to create a more rounded corner. Keep in mind that you are creating the dino's nose.
 Click on the gradient icon and take it from right to left. You want the front of the nose to be lighter.
 To do this, you need to create five different size circles. Be sure to hold down the CTRL key while creating the circles. This will make sure they are circles, not ellipses.
, Here is how it should look (more or less) so far.
 Do this by creating a circle, turning it into a path and distort them to have a dull point. Create a main tooth and then duplicate it. To make it look somewhat realistic, vary the size of the teeth. Make 2 or 3 of them.
 Change the color to the color of your dino, move and rotate it so that it will be a spike at the top of his head. Alternatively, you can create the spike without duplicating the tooth.
 Create another rectangle. This will be the eyebrow. For the Rx and Ry, use 20 instead of 50. Turn it into a path.


Lower the top left corner of the rectangle. Once you have it the shape you want it, duplicate it. (CTRL D)
Reduce the size of the new rectangle (it's a highlight) and select a lighter color for it. Push up on the bottom center of it.

The head is now complete.
 Create a circle. Make sure it is the same color as the primary head color. Have it be about half the size of the head. This is a cartoon, after all.
 Then give your dino's body a teardrop(ish) shape. Once you have the shape you want, duplicate it.
 You might want to stretch it out and move it so that it looks right.
, Shrink them down a bit and add them to the back of the dinosaur.
 Give it the same gradient that the face has. Convert it to a path and shape it the way you want it.
 Pick a color that you like for them. Make them a similar shape to the legs, and add them.
 The arm is the most complicated part of the whole dinosaur. Basically, you need to create it in segments: Shoulder and upper arm, forearm, hand, fingers, fingernails. You do this by creating the circles, converting to paths, and changing the shapes.
,,!

