  With the cards shuffled and placed face down, count down until you reach the 26th card.  You should memorise this card as it is your key card. 


To make this easier you may want to replace the existing 26th card with one that you will find it easier to remember – for instance an Ace.;
,,  We shall name this Packet A.
 Place these cards to the left of Packet A.  We will call this pile Packet B.
  This pile becomes Packet C. (You will note that your key card should now be sitting somewhere around the middle of Packet B.)

, Ask that they look at, and remember the top card (without showing you) and replace the card on top of the packet.  Then they should place Packet C back in its original position.
  Once they have done this get them to place Packet A on Packet C.
,  Ask them to repeat this cut. Thank the spectator.
 Holding the cards closely to your chest you firstly need to identify your key card.  You need to find the card quickly.  It will either be in the bottom half dozen or so cards or the top half dozen or so. 

, Remember to count your key card as number one. If the key card is towards the top end of the pack you should count to the top of the pack and then continue from the bottom until you reach number 26. You have now identified your spectator’s card.
  The cards should still be face up close to your chest. 


Say something like: “I am having real trouble finding your card. I will need to try doing something else.” Whilst you are saying this bring the two halves of the pack together but with the cards in the right hand going on top of those in the left.  Looking at the cards face down the spectator’s card is now the top one.
  Your right hand should be obscuring the whole of the deck from your spectators.
  This move should not be visible to spectators as your right hand should cover this slight.
 You are now ready for the reveal.  You might like to ask the spectator to tell you the name of their card.  As they do so you toss the pack from your right hand to your left hand.  The air pressure on the overlapping card should force it to turn over.

