 A trust is different from a will. With a trust, you (as the “settlor”) sign over title to certain assets to the “trustee,” who manages the assets for the benefit of one or more beneficiaries.You should find your copy of the trust and read it.


Don’t add a beneficiary to your trust by tearing out pages form the trust or writing on the trust document. If you do, then a court could find the entire trust invalid.Instead, you will need to type up an amendment.
 You should decide who you want to add to the trust. Also choose alternate beneficiaries. These alternates could take the property if the original beneficiary dies before you do.


For example, you might want to leave some property to your brother. However, if he dies before you, then you could choose to leave the property to his two children to divide equally. Alternately, you could name another sibling as an alternate beneficiary.
 If you had an attorney work on the original trust, then you should have them help you draft the amendment. At a minimum, you should meet with your attorney to talk about the change.


Your lawyer can look over the trust document and see if you can amend it or if you need to restate the trust. Some trusts are “irrevocable,” and you may not be able to modify them.If you don’t have an attorney, then you can get a referral by contacting your local or state bar association.
 Your trust amendment must contain certain information so that it is valid. Open up a blank word processing document and include the following information:Title: You can title the document something like “September 2, 2016 Amendment to the Carlyle Family Trust dated June 22, 2002.”
Name the parties to the trust. Although you are adding a beneficiary, you still need to state that the settlor and the trustee have agreed to the trust amendment. For example: “Elizabeth Carlyle, Settlor, and Michael Jones, Trustee, enter into this Trust Amendment this 2nd day of September, 2016.”
Identify the provision that allows you to amend the trust.
Add the new beneficiary. You can write something like, “Article III should be changed as follows: Michael Carlyle shall be named as the beneficiary, replacing Jonah Carlyle.”

, Both the trustee and settlor will need to sign the amendment. There should be a line for each person’s signature as well as the date. Remember to sign in front of a notary public.You should also include a notary block. A notary block identifies the location and date of the signature. It also includes signature lines for you, your witnesses, and the notary. You can find an appropriate notary block online.
Be sure to take acceptable forms of identification to show the notary, such as a valid state-issued ID or a passport.
 You should keep them in the same place, preferably in a secure location, such as a safety deposit box. Whoever has a copy of the trust should also get a copy of your executed amendment.


If you had to file your original trust with a county records department, then file the amendment there also.