 Take a piece of construction paper and fold it in half. Draw a small heart on the fold, so the fold forms a line in the middle of the heart. Then, draw another larger heart around the first one. Cut around each heart, but do not cut them out of the card itself. On the sides of each heart, leave a small space uncut so the hearts stay attached to the card. Take a second piece of paper. Use a glue stick to glue a border around the sides of your first piece of paper. Attach your first piece of paper to your second piece of paper and fold your card in half. When you open it, both hearts should pop out slightly.


For an added touch, use paper decorated with hearts, bows and arrows, and other Valentine's Day patterns.
 If you're adept at painting, get some watercolors. Do some free form painting on the front of a blank card. You can paint an abstract arrangement of Valentine's Day colors and then write a message over it when it dries. You can also paint Valentine's Day shapes, like hearts or bows and arrows. When you're done, let the card dry completely before adding any other decorations or words., Pieces of felt can give your Valentine's Day card a fun, fuzzy feel. Pick up some red and pink felt and cut out small heart shapes. Glue them onto the fronts and insides of cards.A fun idea is to use a needle and thread to run a string through a line of hearts. Then, glue the ends of either string down onto the card and write something like, "You Have My Heart on a String."

, Cut heart shapes out of construction paper in colors like red and pink. Use a stencil to draw a jar shape upside down on the top corner of your card. Then, glue on your heart shapes. Have some of them inside the jar and some spilling out down through the card. Add letters as well, spelling messages like, "Love You."

, Ribbons can be a nice touch. You can add them as a finishing touch to any of the card designs listed here. For example, tie a ribbon into a bow and stick it at the bottom of a card if you feel it needs a little extra decoration., Cut out a heart shape from construction paper. Use a glue stick to glue the full surface of the heart and then sprinkle on some glitter. Once the heart dries, glue it to your card to add some sparkle.Glitter hearts can be used as decoration in the above designs if you feel they look a little bare.

