 USB ports are rectangular with a solid piece of plastic on the upper half of the slot and an empty space on the bottom. The slot should have a graphic of three branching arrows pointing upward next to it.


If you're using a desktop, your Mac's USB ports are probably integrated into the display casing, while Mac laptops have USB ports on the left or right side of the keyboard casing.
 Make sure the solid piece on the inside of the memory stick's port is on the bottom when you plug it in.
 This may take a few minutes if this is your first time installing this memory stick on your Mac.


If your memory stick's icon doesn't show up, open your Finder and look for the memory stick's name in the left-hand side of the window. It should be under the "Devices" tab.
 This will open the memory stick's interface, to which you can add files the same way you would add files to another folder.
 If your files are all in the same place, simply click and drag your cursor across your files until you've highlighted all of them.


To find a file manually, open the Finder and type the file's name into the search bar in the right-hand corner of the window. You can open the Finder by clicking the word "Finder" in the upper left-hand corner of your screen, or you can click the blue face icon in your dock.



If you don't want to save your files on your computer, just click-and-drag your selected files over to the memory stick window and drop them there.
Some memory sticks will duplicate your files by default, leaving the original copies of the files on your computer.
 This will select the memory stick as the destination for your files.
 This will add them to your memory stick.
 Depending on the size of your files, adding them to the memory stick can take anywhere from a couple of seconds to hours.
 Ejecting your memory stick before physically removing it from your computer is important, because failing to do so can corrupt files both on your computer and on the memory stick.You can also two-finger click the memory stick's name in the Finder or on your desktop and select "Eject ".
 Do this gently, or you might damage your memory stick. You have successfully added files to your memory stick!

