 This method can make a much more accurate fingerprint, and does not require an impression in putty, but it requires specialized equipment. Do not attempt this unless you have access to these tools, including a high-quality scanner or camera, and a printed circuit board (PCB). An overhead transparency can be used instead of the PCB, but this is less effective., This method can create a fake fingerprint from nothing more than a fingerprint left on a touchscreen, a doorknob, or another dry, glossy surface. To locate these, you can dust a surface with crushed, powdered graphite from mechanical pencil lead, or use a fingerprinting kit with a black powder.


A white surface will work best with this method.
 For best results, photograph or scan the fingerprint with a quality of at least 2400 dpi.Load the resulting image into a computer with photo editing software.
 Use the photo editing software to "flip" the image from left to right, creating its mirror image. Reverse the color of the image as well, so the raised fingerprint is white and the background of the image is black., For best results, print out your fingerprint onto tracing paper, then use a UV etching machine to transfer the fingerprint onto a printed circuit board (PCB).If you do not have access to these materials, you can try the less effective method of printing out the fingerprint directly onto an overhead transparency sheet.
 The fingerprint image on the PCB or overhead transparency is actually slightly raised, and can be used to make a fake fingertip. To do this, cover the image with graphite powder, then smear it with a thin layer of white wood glue or light-colored latex milk.A small dash of glycerin in the wood glue will make it slightly more moist and workable, creating a more effective material.
 Once the wood glue has dried, carefully peel it off the surface beneath and take a look at your new fingerprint. You can even trim this to fingertip size, then use theatrical glue to attach it to your own finger.

