 Using the will as a guide, one of the first steps to properly manage the estate assets is to locate them and acquire any deeds to real property or titles to other property so you can determine how they are owned and whether they should be considered probate assets.To find deeds for real estate, check with the county clerk in the county where the property is located – the deed should be recorded there.
As far as titles for personal property such as cars or boats, you typically will need to look through the deceased person's financial records.
You also may be able to find ownership documents or other information with the deceased person's attorney or accountant. Contact these individuals as you become aware of them, because they also can help you navigate your responsibilities.;
, You will need to gain access to the deceased person's checking and savings accounts, insurance policies, and any retirement or investment accounts so you can pay estate expenses and distribute inheritances.Go through financial records or speak with the deceased person's accountant or financial advisor to find out what types of accounts they have anywhere they are located.
Many of these accounts also may be listed in the will itself.
Make yourself a spreadsheet with the name of each bank or financial institution, type of account, and balance of the account.
You also may want to create columns for contact information or the name of the deceased person's broker or account manager, if applicable.
 As the estate administrator, you are responsible for informing any financial institutions or government agencies that are holding assets of the deceased that the person has died and you are in charge of their estate.The probate court may have forms you can use for this purpose that will include all the necessary information. You also may be able to download basic forms to use online by searching legal form providers.
Keep in mind you don't want to notify banks or government agencies until you are sworn in as the estate administrator.
Before that point, no government or financial institution will have any authority to give you access to the account or close it at your request.
 Particularly if the deceased person owned a small business, there may be various contracts that must end, so it's your responsibility to find the other parties to those contracts and let them know the circumstances.Most contracts have clauses that provide for their immediate termination upon the death of one of the parties, so you shouldn't have any trouble in that regard.
For property leases, the tenant typically has permission to stay in the rental unit until the end of their lease. Rental payments would be paid to the estate. Speak to an attorney if the deceased person has active property or equipment leases.
Typically you also want to close any credit card accounts or other revolving credit for which the deceased person is the only account holder. Doing so can keep the cards from being used inappropriately.
 Personal property may not require much maintenance, but where real property is concerned, one of your jobs as estate administrator is to make sure that the property is properly insured and does not fall into disrepair.Make sure any vacant property is adequately secured and the exterior is kept neat and well-maintained. Giving the appearance that the property is vacant could invite break-ins.
Arrange to pick up the mail regularly or have it forwarded to a more convenient location. You also might consider putting the lights on a timer.
Keep any vehicles out of the elements to the extent possible, and make sure to start them up once every few weeks or so to circulate the fluids.
Remember that essentially you are stepping into the shoes of the deceased person, and you have a fiduciary duty to maintain the deceased person's property for the benefit of their heirs until assets can be distributed.
 Your first legal act as estate administrator is to file the deceased person's will with the court. You also typically must prepare a petition or other document to have yourself sworn in as estate administrator and begin probate proceedings.You will have to fill out forms and appear in court to prove that the will is valid. In most cases, this is a fairly routine procedure.
Unless you have reason to believe there is an alternate will, or that a family member is launching a challenge against the will, it should be a simple and straightforward procedure.
 If there isn't any probate property, you generally don't have to go through probate court even when there's a will. For relatively small estates, most states offer a simplified procedure that can save a lot of time and effort.For example, if the bulk of the deceased person's assets were already transferred to their spouse or another family member, such as through survivorship, or as named beneficiaries on life insurance or retirement accounts, the probate process won't be necessary.
When there are some probate assets, but not many, you may be able to use simplified procedures. Each state sets its own cap on the value of the estate, but it typically is under $100,000.
For larger estates with significant assets or multiple real estate properties, full probate may be unavoidable. This is also the case if the deceased person owned property in other states or overseas.
 If you're using a simplified probate process for a relatively small estate, you should be able to handle things on your own. But for larger or more complex estates, you typically want to hire an attorney to help you.The simplified probate process, much like small claims courts, is designed for people to do on their own without needing to hire counsel.
As estate administrator, you won't have to pay out-of-pocket for an attorney – their fees will be paid by the estate. This is considered a usual cost of administering the estate.
Attorneys' fees may be computed as a percentage of the assets involved, a flat fee, or charged at an hourly rate.
Your probate court may provide guidelines for reasonable attorney's fees. Check their website or talk to the clerk for more information.
Look for an attorney who has experience handling estates similar to the one you're administering. You may have to interview several attorneys before you find the one you want to hire, but in any event you should talk to at least three.
 The probate court expects you to directly notify any creditors that you know of or can reasonably discover. This typically requires you to evaluate the financial records of the deceased person.The probate court typically has a form for you to use to directly notify creditors. Typically you must send this form using formal service procedures, which means mailing the notice using certified mail with returned receipt requested, and filing a proof of service form with the court when you get the green card back showing the notice has been delivered.
Make a copy of each notice form you complete for the estate's records before you mail it. When you get the green certified mail card back, make a copy of it as well.
You also may be required to publish a notice in the paper of record in the city or county where the deceased person lived.
Creditors have a limited period of time – typically six months or less – to file a claim with the probate court if they want to collect the money owed from the estate.
 Probate courts generally require you to file an inventory of the estate's assets, including cash accounts, real estate, and personal property. To complete the estate's inventory, you may have to hire an appraiser to find the fair market value of some estate property.The probate court typically will have a specific form you must use to file the inventory, along with instructions for completing it.
Keep in mind that you don't have to inventory each individual item. The inventory form will have lines for real property, titled personal property such as cars or recreational vehicles, cash assets such as bank or investment accounts and life insurance policies, and miscellaneous personal property such as household furniture and clothing.
If the estate includes real property that has not been recently appraised, you may have to hire a certified professional appraiser to ensure you're listing the true fair market value of the property on the inventory.
Cars, boats, and other vehicles typically can be valued using an approved valuation guide. If the deceased person had collectibles or antiques, you may be able to find similar valuation guides for those items.
Other property is generally valued based on the price you would expect to get for it at an estate sale. You can estimate this amount by looking at similar items placed on online auction sites, or by talking to an estate sale and auction professional.
After completing the inventory, you must file it with the court and send a copy to any interested person who has requested copies of probate filings from the court.
 Once you're ready to distribute the assets remaining after payment of all debts, taxes, and expenses, you typically must file a final accounting and distribution proposal that outlines how the remaining estate property will be divided among the named beneficiaries.The closing report includes an accounting of all the estate's assets and the creditors paid from those assets.
It also typically includes an accounting of the administration expenses and any taxes that were filed.
The distribution proposal lists the name of each person receiving estate property, what property you propose to give them, and that property's approximate value.
You must file this proposal with the court and send a copy to each person listed. They then have a limited period of time, typically 30 days from the date you mailed the copy, to decline the inheritance.
 Assuming the court approves your distribution proposal, it is your responsibility to oversee the execution of that proposal and make sure title in all assets are legally transferred to their new owners.If any beneficiaries have declined their inheritances, you may have to name alternates.
For monetary inheritances, you will write the beneficiary a check from the estate bank account.
To transfer real property, you must prepare a fresh deed – usually a quitclaim deed – naming the beneficiary as the new owner of the property.
A quitclaim deed absolves the estate of any responsibility regarding the transfer of the property, because it transfers whatever interest the deceased person had in the property without making any promises as to what that interest was.
Titled property must be transferred under the requirements of the title transfer laws in the state or county where that property is located.
For all other property, you'll need to prepare a document indicating that the property has been distributed by you as the estate administrator to the beneficiary, who has full rights of ownership in that property.
 You cannot use your own Social Security number or other identifying information when you are serving as an estate administrator. You must get an EIN for the estate so you can open a bank account and file taxes.Go to the IRS website to apply for an EIN online and get your number immediately. Keep in mind it may take a few days before the EIN appears in the IRS's taxpayer records, but you still should be able to do anything else.
To get an EIN, you must provide information about the deceased person and the estate, as well as personal information about yourself as the responsible party.
The IRS also allows you to apply for an EIN by filling out Form SS-4 and faxing or mailing it. However, keep in mind it typically will take a few days or weeks to get the assigned EIN if you use those methods, which could delay your other duties as estate administrator.
 As soon as possible after you are sworn in as estate administrator, you must open a bank account using the EIN you obtained for the estate. You will use this account to pay taxes, administrative expenses, debts, and eventually to distribute any remaining financial assets to beneficiaries.Your fiduciary duties to the estate as estate administrator include a promise not to commingle your own funds or property with that of the estate. You should never pay for any estate expenses from your own bank account or credit card.
Open the estate bank account in the same state, and if possible the same county, where the deceased person lived.
If you're using simplified probate proceedings and expect the estate to close in about a year, a regular checking account will work. You may want to look for one that pays interest, especially if the deceased person has significant cash assets that will be held in this account.
If the deceased person has significant investments, you may want to open an account that can handle both investments and cash, so you only have one estate account to deal with.
 If the deceased person was involved in any lawsuits while living, as estate administrator you step into their shoes on behalf of the estate and represent them in any court proceedings or settlement negotiations.If there is an active lawsuit, find out if there is an attorney involved and talk to them as soon as possible. As estate administrator, that attorney now will work with you as representative of the estate.
Any proceeds from a court victory or settlement become part of the estate's cash assets and are deposited into the estate bank account.
If you lose a case and are required to pay damages, those amounts must come out of the estate's cash assets.
 Compare the value of cash assets listed on the inventory you filed with the court to the total amount of debt claimed by creditors on your list. If there are not enough cash assets to pay those creditors, you may have to arrange for property to be sold.If the deceased person does have enough cash assets to cover their debts, you can begin paying off creditors by writing checks from the estate bank account as soon as the deceased person's cash assets are all transferred to that account.
Keep in mind that in most estates, it is necessary to sell the deceased person's property to pay off their debts.
 As estate administrator, you have authority to sell the personal property of the deceased person if necessary to cover their debts. Typically this is done by arranging an estate sale or auction.You may be able to find a company locally that organizes estate sales or auctions. They will charge a fee to the estate, but you will benefit from their organizational and promotional skills and experience.
Determine what property is to be sold by comparing the values you listed on the inventory to the amount of debts not covered by the deceased person's cash assets.
Once the property is sold, the proceeds will be deposited in the estate account you set up. You can then begin paying off the creditors.
If it's necessary to sell real property to cover the deceased person's debts, you may need to get the probate court's permission first.
 Once enough money is available, you can begin paying creditors off. If there aren't enough assets to cover the deceased person's debts, you will have to work with the court to decide who will be paid.Courts have a hierarchy that determines which creditors should be paid first. This schedule typically is a matter of state law.
Keep in mind that you are not personally responsible for the debts of the deceased person, and neither are the beneficiaries.
If there is not enough in the estate to cover the deceased person's debts, you can file a notice with insolvency with the probate court, and the debts will be paid according to a hierarchy of distribution established by state law.
 Generally speaking, estate taxes will only be due on the largest of estates. However, as estate administrator, you should expect to file at least one tax return – typically the deceased person's final income tax return.You must file a Form 1040 for the deceased person for the year of their death. If they neglected to file tax returns for previous years, the IRS will expect you to file those as well to get the deceased person's taxes up to date.
If the estate itself produces more than $600 worth of income, you must file a fiduciary tax return, Form 1041, and report that income.
Estate tax returns also are required if the estate is of significant size – as in millions of dollars in assets. For estates of this size, hire a tax professional rather than attempting to complete these forms on your own as estate administrator.
You are responsible for filing the deceased person's final state income tax returns as well.

