 As a luxury item, expect Rolexes to cost quite a bit of money. As of 2016, anticipate a starting price in the $4000-5000 range for the cheapest models. Budget accordingly and only purchase your Rolex when you can comfortably afford such an expensive item.Also note that:


Rolexes are often perceived as a status symbol, indicating a certain level of achievement in one’s life. So if you wish to impress people by suggesting that you have personally achieved this level (whether or not you actually have), Rolexes are certainly an option.
However, be aware that there is also a stigma attached to flashing a Rolex as a sign of success.Expect true enthusiasts to have a much more intimate knowledge of their timepieces beyond the pricetag.;
, Buy a Rolex to honor a special occasion. Mark a significant turning point in your personal life, or treat yourself after a major achievement in your career. Give yourself a carrot to follow so you have more time to save more money, rather than limiting yourself to the cheapest models as soon as you can afford one. Such occasions could include:Weddings
Birthdays
Anniversaries
Promotions
Retirement

, Trust the resale value of a Rolex to remain relatively consistent over time.Buy a timepiece with an eye toward the future, should you ever need an easy way to get hold of a significant sum of money fairly quickly. However:


Be aware that, as with most investments, there are no guarantees. Although there is a heavy trade in used Rolexes, play it safe and assume that you won’t get all your money back if you buy a brand-new one., First, ask yourself how often you plan to wear it: every day, in certain situations, or only very special occasions? Then review your style of dress in those circumstances. Lastly, consider whether this Rolex will be your only one, or the beginning of a collection.If this is to be your only Rolex, stick to classic designs. Avoid trendy elements that may grow out of date or would be hard to match with multiple outfits, such as irregular-sized cases or colored dials.
 Visit dealers in person so you can try on different models. Deal directly with staff so they can answer any questions that you might have. Then take time to think about your options and preferences. With such a hefty price-tag, make sure you are buying the watch you want.Questions to ask include: What materials are the components made of? Where do I locate serial numbers? What other markers show that it is a genuine Rolex?
To find official Rolex dealers near you, visit https://www.rolex.com/rolex-dealers/dealer-locator/unitedstates#north=49.38&south=25.82&east=-66.94&west=-124.38999999999999


, Based on your intended use, choose a Rolex that will complement your fashion sense. Decide between models in three different categories of watches: sport, dress, and “showy.”Sport watches are ideal for everyday wear with casual attire. Models include the Daytona, Explorer I and II, GMT-Master II, Sea-Dweller Deepsea, Submariner, and Yachtmaster.
Dress watches are for more formal/business attire. These include the Air King, Datejust II, Day-Date II, and Oyster Perpetual.
“Showy” watches incorporate more flashy design elements to standard models, such as precious metals and gems. These are best reserved for very special occasions or as collectibles.
 If you are first time buyer, think about these two primary considerations. Shop a new Rolex to ensure a working watch.Or, purchase a used Rolex to (possibly) save money.Other considerations include:


With new watches, you are able to buy directly from Rolex dealers, minimizing the risk of fakes. Also, contemporary designs are guaranteed.
With vintage watches, prices may actually rise due to scarcity of a particular model. There is also an increased chance that some elements have been replaced with other parts, which lowers its value., Once you have decided on a watch (or narrowed your list down to a couple choices), learn as much as you can about the product. Especially make a point of this if you plan on purchasing it from a source other than an official dealer. Use resources like internet forums, trade publications, and books to find out identifying marks like:Logos, fonts, and sizes.Reference numbers and where to find them.
What engravings it should have, and where.
Materials used for luminescence.
 Now that you know more about what you want, choose where to make your purchase. For the easiest stress-free experience, buy directly from an official dealer for peace of mind.If you shop elsewhere:


Research dealers through customer reviews and similar sources to eliminate iffy sellers.
Beware dealers that offer no warranties, return policies, or other forms of buyer protection.For “showy” watches, prioritize official dealers, since the design elements of used watches may have been added after the fact by sources other than Rolex.