 Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius).


Meanwhile, prepare a baking sheet by lining it with parchment paper or nonstick aluminum foil. If neither are on hand, you could coat the baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray, instead.
 In a medium mixing bowl, stir together the masa harina and salt until well combined. Use clean hands or a mixing spoon.


Note that masa harina is a traditional Mexican corn flour. If you cannot find masa harina, use another corn flour. Do not use corn starch or cornmeal.
 Gradually add hot water to the masa harina mix, stirring continually to combine the ingredients. Stop adding water once a dough forms.


The water only needs to be hot; it does not need to be boiling.
You will likely end up using between 1/2 cup (125 ml) and 3/4 cup (185 ml) water.
Stir the dough with a spatula to make sure that the ingredients are thoroughly blended together. The dough should not be able to crack or fall apart.
After stirring the ingredients together, knead it a few times with your hands.
 Use your hands to pack the dough into a solid ball. Allow it to sit in a warm, dry area for 30 to 60 minutes.
 After enough time has passed, divide the ball of dough into eight even sections. Roll each of these sections into balls.
 Lay out a sheet of parchment paper. Place a small ball of dough on top of it, then cover it with another piece of parchment paper. Use the bottom of a plate or pan to flatten the ball into a circle that is less than 1/4 inch (6 mm) thin.


Repeat this same procedure with the other seven balls of dough.
If you do not have parchment paper, plastic wrap or plastic bags could also be used.
If you need to apply more force to flatten out the dough, you could roll over the plate with a rolling pin or otherwise set something heavy on top of it.
After the dough has been flattened sufficiently, carefully peel off the parchment paper or plastic.
 Divide each round into six even, triangular wedges. Use a knife or pizza cutter to cut them up. Arrange the wedges onto your prepared baking sheet in a single layer.


For best results, spray or coat the unbaked corn tortilla chips with a little olive oil. You may also sprinkle them with additional salt, to taste.
 Place the corn chips in your preheated oven and bake them for about 10 minutes. When done, they should look golden in color and have a crispy texture.
 Allow the corn tortilla chips to cool until they are safe to touch. Share with friends or enjoy the chips on your own.

