 The best way to prevent new scars from forming is to avoid contact with the affected area during a flare up. Scratching or even rubbing the area may cause the skin to break, which could lead to new scars.Anti-itch creams like calamine lotion or hydrocortisone cream may help reduce itchiness. Use these products, which are available both over-the-counter or by prescription, before moisturizing your skin.
Try to distract yourself any time your skin itches intensely. You might do this with music, television, or physical distractions like pinching or gently slapping another (unaffected) part of your skin.
You should also ensure that your clothing does not rub the affected area(s). Opt for loose, soft clothing instead of tight, rough clothes., Many people with eczema also experience adverse reactions to allergens and irritants on their skin. The allergens/irritants will vary from person to person, and a dermatologist or allergy specialist can help you determine what your skin responds to most adversely.Common allergens that affect eczema include pollen, pet dander, and dust mites.
Some common irritants include wool, synthetic fiber, certain soaps and detergents, cosmetic products, body fragrances, and lanolin oil.
Choose mild soaps/cleansers or cleansers that do not contain soap. You may also want to try using less soap/cleanser than you normally use.
Hot water can cause eczema to flare up. It's best to use lukewarm water when bathing or washing your hands and to limit the amount of time you spend in the shower or bath.
 If you're seeing a dermatologist for your eczema, you will probably receive a prescription for some type of medication. The medication your physician prescribes may be used to reduce itchiness, improve inflammation, or prevent infections.Be sure to let your dermatologist know about any existing medical conditions and any other medications you may be taking.


Some dermatologists prescribe antibiotics to prevent or treat a skin infection caused by itching. If prescribed an antibiotic, be sure to complete the entire regimen as prescribed, even if your symptoms start to improve.
Corticosteroids may be prescribed for oral, topical, or injected use.
Taking oral allergy medication may help reduce itchiness on the affected area. You can purchase over-the-counter allergy medication, such as cetirizine (Zyrtec), fexofenadine (Allegra), or diphenhydramine (Benadryl), at most pharmacies.
 Wet dressings are applied topically to the affected area. This treatment method has been proven to be effective in many people with eczema. The topical corticosteroids and wet bandages applied as a wet dressing soothe the skin and reduce the need to scratch, thereby preventing potential future scars.Wet dressings can reduce the symptoms of eczema in as little as a few hours, though some people may take several days or weeks before symptoms improve.
Talk to your dermatologist about whether wet dressings could work for you.
 Light therapy has been proven effective for most adult cases of eczema. Light therapy may utilize natural ultraviolet (UV) light through regulated exposure to sunlight, or it may involve artificial UV light; however, long-term exposure to UV light (including through medically-supervised light therapy) has been linked to premature aging of the skin and an elevated risk of skin cancer.Never use light therapy for children or infants, as the harmful effects significantly outweigh any potential benefits.

