 When you’re asking your parents to stay up on a school night, timing is everything. If you ask them when they’re in a bad mood or feeling particularly stressed, you’re likely going to get an automatic “no.” However, if you ask when they’re in a good mood, you have a better chance of getting permission to stay up.Pay attention to when your parents are usually in a good mood. For example, if your dad is always happy after he watches her favorite TV show, that’s a good time to ask him if you can stay up.
On the other hand, if you know your parents are upset about something, wait until later to talk to them. For example, if your mom tells you that she’s had a bad day at work, you should give her some time to relax before you ask about staying up.
Make sure that your parents have time to listen to your request too. Don’t ask them when they’re about to head out the door or working on an important project around the house.;
, Parents usually don’t respond well if you act like you entitled to something just because you asked for it. When you ask your parents to stay up on a school night, be sure to show gratitude so they know you appreciate all that they do allow you to do. Instead of just asking “Can I stay up late tonight?”, start by saying something like, “I know that you let me stay up sometimes for special occasions, and I really appreciate that.”Don’t just pretend that you’re grateful what your parents do for you. It’s important to genuinely appreciate what they allow you to do, so you don’t take for granted that they’re going to let you stay up whenever you want.
Avoid whining when you ask too. Be as polite and calm as you can manage.
 When you’re asking your parents to stay up on a school night, it helps to have a specific reason why you want to do it. They’re more likely to say yes if they know why it’s so important to you. For example, there might be a TV show that you really want to see or a late baseball game that you want to watch. Explain why you would like to stay up as clearly as possible, so your parents have good reason to allow it.Your reason for wanting to stay up late on a school night doesn’t have to be a one-time-only event. You might feel that because you’ve reached a certain age, it’s time that you be allowed to stay up late every night.
If you’re asking for a permanent change to your bedtime, you might say, “I really feel that because I’m 12 years old now, I should be able to stay up until 10 o’clock.”
It may also help to cite examples of friends who are allowed to stay up on a school night. For example, you might say, “Ryan’s parents decided to let him stay up late on Thursday to watch the playoff game,” or “Marissa and Katelyn are also 13, and they’re allowed to stay up until 10:30 on school nights.”

, You probably want to know right away if your parents are going to let you stay up, but try your best to be patient. If you put your parents on the spot and ask for an answer right way, they’re probably more likely to say “no.” Instead, tell that them that you want to give them time to think about your request.You might say, “Don’t say yes or no right away. Take some time to think about it before you let me know.”
Being patient can be difficult, so it’s a good idea to settle on a specific time when you’re going to get your answer. For example, you might say, “You don’t have to let me know right now. Let’s talk about it again tomorrow afternoon.”

