 This will open Android’s app store where you’ll download Microsoft Outlook. The icon looks like a colorful “play button” inside a white briefcase.


Tap on the dotted icon to scroll through your apps if you can’t find Google Play from the homescreen.;
, Doing so will prompt a text field.
 Once you’ve typed “Outlook” into the search bar, tap on the magnifying glass at the bottom-right corner of your keyboard to bring up a list of applications.


A list of recommended searches will appear under the text field while typing.
 It's the first application listed. This will bring you to the app’s informational page.


Look for the app three rows down from the top if you prefer to search with the drop-down list.
 Microsoft Outlook will begin downloading.


Feel free to read reviews and specifics about the app before installing to see if it’s compatible with your device and functional needs.
 Doing so once the app is finished downloading will cause Outlook to open. A page will popup on your screen where you can proceed by tapping “Get Started”.


Open Outlook from your app drawer if you’ve already exited Google Play.
 You can enter either an Outlook email address or an email with a different provider.
 The button is located underneath your email address and will prompt a page where you can review the account information before signing in.



Outlook will automatically configure the account.
Tap “Find my account” and follow the prompts if your email address isn’t properly showing up.
 Type your account password into the text field that appears under your email address.
 This will bring you to the permissions page where you can see a list of features that will sync with the app.


You can change your account permissions at anytime.
 You'll find it at the bottom-right corner of the permissions page. Pressing it will sync Outlook with your Android. Once the sync is complete, you’ll be able to access your contacts, documents, emails, and shared calendars straight from the app’s dashboard.

