 You have to feed them to help them produce milk. Without feed, don't expect your dairy cows to be producing much milk. You can feed them hay, grain, silage or even let them graze grass if there is plenty of grass for your cows to eat. Be sure that they have constant access to clean water; cows should never go without water, especially when they are being raised for milk. You should try to feed them every day or as many times as necessary per day or week depending on how you are feeding them. If they're on pasture, you need to ensure they have fresh pasture. If they are on a rotational grazing schedule, you will need to switch paddocks every day, or at least as many times per day or per week as necessary.


If your dairy cows are on feed, make sure they are getting a formulated ration that best suits their needs as they are producing milk. This means feeds high in calcium, phosphorus, protein and energy, which will both help produce high-quality milk and keep them in good health.
Be sure to allow your cows free access to loose mineral as well.;
, This means keeping up-to-date with vaccinations and de-worming/de-licing programs. If you haven't already, please see your local large animal veterinarian for certain vaccinations and de-worming or de-licing products that are best for your herd.
 Dairy cattle are highly susceptible to mastitis and lameness issues, which may need to be attended to as soon as possible.
 This will need to be done every day. Replace dirty bedding (in the form of straw or sawdust) that has been soiled from manure with clean bedding. If you fail to do this you may invite higher cases of mastitis in your dairy herd.
 This is so that they do not pose a risk of mastitis to the cows when you milk them, and it also ensures that the milk you get from those cows is kept clean. Milk that is contaminated with dirt pose a high risk of having E. coli, Streptococcus, Salmonella, Campylobacter, Clostridium spp., etc which can pose a health risk to humans if consumed.
 Dairy cows need to be milked twice a day, once every 12 hours, approximately. Depending on how many cows you have, you may have to milk them by hand or by machine. It is best to have machines milking them if you have more than three cows to milk.


The conventional standard is milking them twice a day, but small-time milkers or those with only one family cow have no problem with milking their cowonce a day.
 In order for dairy cows to be productive in producing milk, they need to be bred once a year to produce a calf. See the article How to Breed Dairy Cattle for more information.

