 A solid foundation is basic - research, think and decide what your financial portfolio should comprise of. The advice of financial advisers are similar and your portfolio should not deviate too much from their advice. Here are some elements of a traditional financial portfolio:


Emergency or Contingency Fund. For employees you must have saved up a minimum of three months of your monthly expenses and put in fairly liquid account. Self-employed should have a minimum of six months of their monthly expenses saved for emergencies and also in a fairly liquid account. This fund is for no other purpose other than emergencies. A checking account is very liquid and savings account without an ATM card is a good choice for most people.
Checking and Savings accounts. If you are paying fees for not meeting minimum monthly balances and overdrafts, then investing should be postponed. These bank fees will be in excess of what you earn from investing. Use the savings account for installment purchases, vacations and as a temporary holding account for your investments. For example,if your minimum stock investment is $5,000 and you have just $1,000 in your stock account accumulated from interest, dividends and capital gains - put that $1,000 into your higher interest savings account.
Credit Card. Have a card for daily use and earn points for rewards and another card with a low rate for installment purchase. Making just one installment purchase (and paying it off) at a time with your low rate card is the ideal. Credit Cards have a buyer protection feature so even with the interest rates, they are better than paying with cash
Time deposits. CDs are semi-liquid, FDIC insured and yield more than a savings account.
Retirement Account. There are a wide variety of retirement account vehicles.
Have a well diversified portfolio. Peer to Peer lending is an excellent addition to your portfolio. Lending Club and Prosper are the two biggest Peer to Peer Lending sites and their loans have a three year payback period. Classification of this investment is varied there is some liquidity, there is regular income and if money is not withdrawn it is a long term investment. There is no FDIC or SIPC insurance.;
, A yield of 2% above a 12 month deposit is realistic. The two percent pays for the investment in time and other risk factors. The cash account balance increases rapidly after a certain balance is reached, so daily or weekly, the cash account money, which earns no interest, must be reinvested. The liquidity of peer to peer accounts is great and can be considered as an income source. For those willing to work hard and smart greater returns are possible.
 This is not a get rich quick scheme and in the long run, the outstanding returns of some lenders eventually settle into a number that is reasonable and achievable. The great returns (mostly short-term) of some lender are highly touted, but it is the long-term results that matter.
 Each bit of information branches out into a preset criteria in the overall decision making. For example, the borrowers age can be put into a certain age group range from his earliest credit account, length of employment etc. From this age group estimate, from research already conducted, there is the percentage of default to be considered. Find statistics on student loan defaults by age and statistics for personal bankruptcy by age as there should be no statistics on peer to peer borrower default by age.
, The number of lenders are growing rapidly, people enjoy being part of the decision-making process in lending and the prospect for nice returns are very possible. Transferring money in and out to a checking account is very fast, simple and done from the website with the click of a button.

