 Ask people if it looks good on you to boost your ego. Make sure your hair looks good as well. Feeling good about your appearance will give you confidence.;
, That's the first thing you have to do. Breathe deeply, talking to him is no big deal. You both attend the same school, or wherever, and assuming it, you can talk to him if you want to. Make sure that you and your crush are both at a relaxed social occasion. This could be a party, a sports event or the mall. This lends a feeling of casualness to your interaction.
 If he is in the middle of a conversation with other friends, wait for him to split off on his own or wait to make eye contact with the group and say hello to everyone at once.
 When you get your crush alone, attempt to sound as casual as you can. Casual comes off as confident and confidence can be faked. Even if you don't feel confident, act like it. If you don't know him yet, a good way to start a conversation is paying a compliment on his shirt, and then when you see him again ask his name and introduce yourself. But if you both already met each other, just start a conversation anyway.
 When he answers, make sure you seem interested and react truthfully.
 Mention a similar story of your own or comment on what he just said. During this time use your instincts to feel out if your crush is interested in you, not necessarily if they like you as much as you like them. Pay attention to how engaged they are and how they try to steer the conversation.
 Ask about his favorite movies, what he likes doing. Show you're interested.
 This way he will enjoy being with you even more.
 Once you have reasonably assessed that your crush likes you, bring up an event that relates to what you have been talking about, such as a play, movie or sports event. Mention that you will be attending. Tell your crush that you would love it if they would go with you. This makes it less of a question and more of an invitation to something you are already planning on attending.


If you want to ask him out, you don't need to be nervous. A girl can do it. Just don't make it sound so big like a date, make it sound like something two friends do together. For example, you can go up to him and say 'hey, there's this really cool movie going on in the theater, wanna come with me?". Act naturally and friendly.
If your crush says yes, get his number and tell him you will call him about the details soon. This doesn't have to be the end of the conversation, but your main goal has been accomplished. Congrats!
If he says no, figure out why. Possibly he is just busy that day or perhaps he is not interested in a date with you. Use your instincts to feel it out. If you are unsure, its best to leave it at "Well, if you ever want to go to (a movie, sports event), let me know, I would love to go with you." Then the ball is in his court.
If you are planning to ask him on a date, then bring up something like "Hey would you like to catch a movie this Friday night?" Be confident and comfortable. Do not be offended if he rejects your invite. Just go "Ok." Then change the subject. If you are rejected, don't take it personally. It is alright. There are always more fish in the sea.

