 Hime gyaru is about a sweet and innocent princess appearance. If you already have cute, frilly dresses, that's a good starting point. Dresses are mostly knee-length, but some are shorter. Popular things on hime gyaru dresses are fake fur, pearls, animal print, flowers, bows and anything that's cute and sweet. But keep all these things in moderation, like ruffles just at the bottom of a dress, or lace on the sleeves. Don't make yourself look like your outfit is eating you alive! Dressed tend to be very regal looking, and generally are in pastel colors - after all, you're a princess girl! Popular brands in the hime gyaru scene include Jesus Diamante and Liz Liza.;
, If you have a nice pair of jeans with no holes, pair it with tops that have bows, lace, animal print, and anything very cute and hime. Add some matching ballet flats or heels and a pearl necklace/cute jewelry, along with cute gyaru makeup and hair. Just be sure to keep it very nice - you're a princess gal, remember?

, Hime gyaru gals usually wear lots of makeup, but it is very simple looking. Usually hime gyarus will take use of liquid eyeliner in black, light foundation, fake eyelashes and/or mascara and pink lip gloss/lipstick. Eye makeup is usually done to make the eyes appear larger. Tanning is optional, but if you do get one, don't make it very dark or orange, usually hime gals just use a light bronzer if they choose to tan at all.
 One huge flower (i.e. a rose) or a silk bow are good hair accessories. If you don't have a bow a little crown or tiara (it shouldn't be too big or it will look funny), whether plastic or metal, will be an adorable option. You MUST have a hair accessory. Popular hairstyles include having your hair teased into a high beehive or bouffant hairstyle, with lots of curls, or having a nice, simple bun. Straightened hair isn't very hime unless you have a bouffant  to accompany it--the elaborate big-hair hairdo is a trademark hime gyaru style. The hime haircut is perfect for hime gyaru--it's basically long bangs cut to your jaw, with regular bangs as well, the rest of the hair is cut evenly at one length.
 Fake nails are very pretty, especially they are nice if you naturally have short nails, but if you want to go totally natural, a clear or shimmery white nail coating can be used. They should be decorated/painted in some fashion. Many tutorials for hime gyaru nails are available online. Furthermore there is also a lot of press-on nails to be found online, a quick Google search will easily help you to find what you're searching after. A lot of hime gyarus - and gyarus in general - use very fancy nails, and many of them happens to be 3d, with laces, bows, pearls, and other kinds of girly stuff.
 Be kind to others, and don't dumb yourself down to seem like a perfect princess!! A lot of gyarus are mean to each other, and many people doesn't want to be gyaru usually because the other people in the gyaru community can be quite rude. So, be nice. Maybe others will follow your path and be nicer to other gyarus. In general, you should also be nice to everyone. Don't be afraid to try new things, and stop thinking about what others will think about you. This is your body and you will choose what kind of clothes you want to decorate it with. Each person have different opinions, so you can't expect everyone to like what you're doing - but furthermore you cannot expect everyone to hate what you're doing. And you don't always have to be frilly and girly, you can still do anything you want, gyaru is simply a fashion, it doesn't restrict what music you listen to, activities you do in your spare time, or how you choose to act. And lastly, BE CONFIDENT! Lovely makeup, cute hair and nice clothes mean nothing if you don't think you look good!

