 There are primarily two types of surrogacies: gestational and traditional. In a gestational surrogacy, an egg and sperm are joined to create an embryo which is then implanted into the surrogate who will carry and bear the child. The surrogate is not a biological parent of the child. In a traditional surrogacy, the surrogate is impregnated via artificial insemination by the donor sperm fertilizing the surrogate’s egg. In this case, the surrogate is also the biological mother of the child.The Ohio Supreme Court has recognized the validity of some gestational surrogacy contracts but has not addressed contracts regarding traditional surrogacy.Presumably, normal family law would apply to traditional surrogacy, granting parental rights to biological parents.;
, In Ohio, it is illegal to pay a fee for adopting a child. However, fees for surrogacy have been upheld so long as they are reasonable and do not appear as if the baby is being sold.


According to the Ohio Bar, fees generally range from $7,000 to $25,000. However, according to one surrogacy center, the average compensation for a surrogate ranges from $39,450 to $52,450, depending on various factors. These factors include whether the surrogate has worked as a surrogate before and whether she is carrying multiple babies.The amount can increase depending on lost wages due to enforced bed rest, as well as travel expenses and life insurance., If you haven’t been pregnant before, then you should become aware of how pregnancy will impact your health and lifestyle. This impact includes time missed from work for appointments with the obstetrician or for childbirth. Even if you have had normal pregnancies in the past, complications can occur, which could subject you to bed rest or hospitalization.


Also, be aware that many women grow very attached to a child they have nurtured in the womb for nine months. Giving that child up can be emotionally challenging. Changing your mind and breaching a surrogacy contract could subject you to financial penalties. It also can be very traumatic for the intended parents.
Another consideration is how the pregnancy will affect your other children, who you will be caring for during and after the pregnancy.You should be willing to tell your children that you are carrying a baby for other people and that the baby will not return home with you after being born.
 You should not undertake surrogacy lightly. A skilled surrogacy attorney can discuss with you whether or not this is a good option. Also, a skilled attorney can help you review the surrogacy contract and can provide legal advice should any disputes arise between you and the intended parents.


It may be difficult to find an attorney who has experience with surrogacies. The Ohio Bar runs a referral program, which can be found here. However, it does not list “surrogacy” as a specialty that you can search for. Accordingly, you may want to find attorneys who practice “family law” and call to check if they have handled surrogacy issues.
The American Academy of Assisted Reproductive Technology Attorneys is a national organization of attorneys dedicated to advancing best legal practices with respect to assisted reproductive technology. You can also check their directory here for lawyers in Ohio.
 Surrogate contracts are often negotiated between couples and a surrogate who have known each other for many years and may even be related. For example, a sister may be willing to carry the fertilized embryo of her sibling and his or her spouse.


There are also agencies who match couples searching for a surrogate with potential surrogates. To find one near you, you should do an internet search, typing in “surrogacy agency” and your city or county into your favorite search engine.
Agencies typically have strict requirements for their surrogates. For example, they may require that you have at least one child of your own, have no complications in your obstetric history, have no criminal record, and not have had more than two c-sections or four vaginal deliveries., If you are negotiating a surrogacy arrangement with anyone other than long-time friends and family (and sometimes even then), you should thoroughly research the other party or agency. A surrogacy contract is a written agreement and can become the basis of litigation. You should know who you are entering a contract with. Furthermore, you want to be sure that the other party is not obtaining the child for illegal purposes (such as human trafficking). If the intended parents have a lengthy criminal history, you may want to avoid working with them.


If you are working with an agency, check the Better Business Bureau and the Chamber of Commerce in the area where the agency is located. You may also want to check with the Ohio Attorney General to see if any lawsuits have been filed against the agency by the state or other parties.
If you are dealing with private individuals, you may want to hire someone to perform a background investigation. Ideally, the intended parents will be very open about their life and background and might even agree to a background check. If they seem hesitant, then you may want to reconsider working with them.
You can find out how to perform a background check by reading wikiHow’s How to Do a Criminal Background Check.
 If you find a couple you are willing to act as a surrogate for, you will want to discuss a variety of issues before moving on to drafting a contract. Take time to meet face-to-face for these discussions. It is important to come to agreement on critical issues before starting the surrogacy. Give some thought to the following and be sure to discuss each with the intended parents:


Who will be responsible for every necessary or optional item during the pregnancy and childbirth. These could include medical bills, insurance premiums, uncovered expenses, maternity clothes, wages for time the surrogate misses work for obstetrician appointments, child care for any existing children of the surrogate for the time she is unable to care for them because of the surrogate pregnancy.
All parties should also agree on any optional testing that is to be done (such as amniocentesis), including when it should be performed.
All parties should agree with what should be done in the case of a complication or if a test indicates a birth defect. Discuss who covers any charges if a viable pregnancy or live birth does not occur, and whether any fees will be paid for the surrogacy in that situation.
Discuss the type of procedure that will instigate the pregnancy and who will donate both the egg and sperm. Also discuss the maximum number of attempts to achieve pregnancy.Decide on what clinics will provide all medical care and whether or not you should meet with particular doctors chosen by the intended parents.
 A surrogacy contract is complicated. Because there are so many technical details to cover, you should not attempt to draft it yourself. If possible, you should sit down with your own lawyer and review the contract.


If you go through an agency, the agency will probably draft the contract. You should still retain your own attorney to review the contract. Even the best, most ethical agencies will be focused on protecting their own interests, not yours. You should always have an independent lawyer review any agreement., You should check the contract to make sure that it contains all the provisions that you discussed with the intended parents, e.g., who will pay medical bills, lost wages to attend medical appointments, etc.
 This clause is particularly important when the surrogate and the intended parents live in different states.If a lawsuit develops, then the law of the state chosen in the contract will control the interpretation of the contract and any litigation.
 If you do not agree with something in the contract, then you should object to it before signing. The contract should contain the entirety of your agreement, so do not sign a contract even if you receive verbal assurances that the other parties will revise the contract at a later date. Instead, wait for the contract to be revised.


It is probably a good idea to put communications between parties in writing as often as possible as well. Email is a great way to communicate informally while at the same time retaining a hard copy of the communication.
 After the surrogacy contract is executed, it should be followed. If an issue arises that was not covered in the contract, then all parties should discuss it and attempt to come to an agreement. Once agreement is reached, reduce that agreement to writing and sign it as well.


If problems arise which cannot be resolved by agreement, then you should seek the assistance of an attorney.

