 Wash the interior ceramic section and the top glass portion with dish soap and warm water.;
, Your slow cooker emits heat, so safety is a priority. Make sure there is plenty of room on all sides, including the top, to vent off the heat for the duration of cooking.


You can store your clean slow cooker in a cupboard when it is unplugged. If you choose to do this, you should clear space every time you remove it for use.
 Older crock pots may not automatically use this setting after the time is finished.
 Different brands of slow cooker have slightly different settings and cleaning instructions.



Find a recipe that is made for a slow cooker. You can find cookbooks or online recipes that list the heat and cooking times along with the correct amount of ingredients. Keep in mind, that you should plan to fill at least half of your crock pot in order for slow cooking times to be correct for the recipe. If you have a very large or small slow cooker, you may want to change the portions. Most recipes are intended for 5 to 6 qt. (4.7 to 5.7l) slow cookers.
Find a normal recipe intended for dry heat and adjust it for a slow cooker. In order to properly adjust it, you will want to cut the liquid ingredients by 1/2, because liquid does not escape from the pot. You should also place things that are roasted or baked on high heat on the "high" setting and things roasted or baked on lower heats on the "low" setting. You will need to experiment with cooking times, but cook recipes for at least 4 to 6 hours.
 You can chop vegetables or meat and make sauce the night before. This will allow you to pour the ingredients into the crock pot in the morning and set the temperature to cook all day.
 If you want smaller pieces that are firmer, add the vegetables later in the cooking time.
 Placing your meat in a hot pan with a little olive oil to brown all the sides will seal the juices inside, creating a richer flavor.


This is true with large roasts and diced meats. Ensure you cook it quickly and turn it on all sides.
 This will shorten the cook time and ensure the sauce is mixed properly.


If you prepared your ingredients the night before, pre-mix the sauce and place it in the microwave for a minute before placing it in the slow cooker.



Pork shoulder and chicken thighs are cheaper than breasts and chops. The long, slow cook time allows the fat to be released into the meat, making it just as tasty as more expensive cuts.
Buying more marbled cuts of meat will also keep your meat dishes from drying out.
 The long cooking times will make strong spices stronger. This is especially important if you are adjusting a regular recipe for use in a slow cooker.
 Place the cooker on the low setting to keep the temperature steady while people are opening it frequently.
 Start with the recommended cooking times and adjust later.
, Opening it before the last 30 minutes of cooking will let the heat escape and increase the cook time.


Some experts also believe that opening the lid when cooking meat will allow bacteria to enter your kitchen. Since the crock pot keeps low heats, food, like chicken, pork or fish, that has not yet achieved a high enough heat to kill bacteria can spread bacteria on utensils, counters and floors.
 Allow the crock pot to cool down completely before cleaning.
 It is recommended that you store it in a smaller Tupperware container, so that you can clean food off the crock pot just after it cools down.


If your crock pot has a removable stoneware container, remove it from the heating portion to cool. Place it on a stove top.
If you cannot remove the inner portion of the crock pot, you must make sure the device is unplugged and cooled completely before cleaning with water.
 Crock pots should be fairly easy to clean. If there is baked on food, allow it to soak for 5 to 10 minutes in warm soapy water.


Removable stoneware containers can also be cleaned in the dishwasher.
If you have repeated problems with hard to remove food, you may be cooking the ingredients for too long.
Do not use scouring pads to clean the crock pot, or it may damage the surface.
 Wipe dry.
 Wipe dry after cleaning to reduce the likelihood of spots.
