 Walk without tripping, stumbling or doing anything that breaks your stride. Do not slouch or duck your head forward, and the same goes with sitting. Don't ever fidget when you walk or sit. Practice walking with a book on top of your head across a room. Do this a little every day until you've mastered the technique.
 Be nice to other people and they will be nice back to you. Do not swear, badmouth, or be a gossip-monger. If you can't restrain yourself, say nothing at all.
 Keep a calm deposition when you are around people. Talk in a lucid, but clear way, like you are on a beach lounging somewhere. Have a calm tone in voice, not too loud or quiet, just right. If you don't feel calm, find space to be on your own until you have learned the art of self-calming quickly.
 Have a little mystery in your life. Don't blab about everything; there are details best left unmentioned and there are deeper parts of yourself to reserve for the special few.
 Do your best in school, and have the best handwriting possible.
 Simply nod and have your ears open and your mouth smiling. Active listening also requires summarizing and repeating elements of what you have been told, confirming your understanding and involvement in the other person's conversation.
 Along with being courteous, sweetness or being charming are an important aspect of having an enchanting outlook. Compliment others regularly, talk in a sweet or charming manner, pick up something if someone drops it and call after them to return it to them, etc.
 Be whimsical, unique, and stylish in your own chosen fashion. Quirky is good if it helps define who you really are.
 Wear soft colors, not too girly. Soft colors would be colors like forest green, light pink, sea blue, foam green, pearl white or grey. Have an image that really reflects on the word "enchanting".;
, Don't wear anklets, and wearing long necklaces (not too long) would be perfect. Don't overdress, just a silver ring and necklace will do.
 Don't always wear pinks, and don't wear too many dark colors.
 Try not to do high ponytails. That is not enchanting. Try something new. Also, shower everyday.

