 This will enable you to reach out to teachers in certain fields, no matter where they are located.


Where possible, form ongoing connections with teachers who have like interests or whose expertise is important to your teaching.;
, The key speaker or speakers should be an expert in the field who can give a lesson or talk that will update the viewers.
, Make your own blog and keep it updated with relevant information.
 Find the blogs that are of most interest and use to you and follow them. You can leave comments and seek advice through the comment fields, or email the various bloggers. You might even place your favorite teaching blogs on a blogroll on your own blog.
 If you're stuck for a way to teach something or need new ideas, use a blog article to reach out to the readers and get some fresh ideas or some advice.


Teacher mentoring and coaching can be undertaken through blogging. This can help teachers adjust in a new situation and cope with the problems, get new ideas of solving the problems.
Blogs can be used as a way to resolve problems that come up during the day, to find out how other teachers would handle specific situations. Be sure not to use real names or to share anything that is personal or disreputable. Be aware that your students will find your blog and they will read it. They will also piece together anything that refers to people in your class, so just describe a problem or an outcome, never mention persons, either actually or in disguise.
 Place the best work of the students on the blog, as a way to encourage them to work harder for this reward. You will learn about blog creation, collation and curating in the process.
 Podcasts are great because they're entertainingly presented, easy to use and can fit into your schedule at times when you're doing something else. Download the podcast and listen to it when driving, when making dinner or when out walking.
 Either set listening to a particular podcast as ongoing homework or play podcasts in class. You might even make a class project to make your own class podcast.
 There are courses offered by many higher education institutions from all around the world, covering dozens and dozens of topics. Search through these and pick one that you'd like to learn more about. Most courses will offer the most up-to-date information possible, so it's a great way to brush up on the latest developments in your field.


Some common MOOCs include Coursera, FutureLearn, Open2Study, Edcast, and so forth. A list of MOOCs can be found by searching for "MOOC list" online.
 The students might benefit from participating in a MOOC that is right on topic and you can develop lesson components, essay topics and tests that are drawn from the MOOC materials.

