 Brain stimulation includes several methods of stimulating the brain to control certain behaviors.It may include implanting electrodes in the brain through surgery, attaching them to the scalp, or using magnetic fields. The more you know about brain stimulation in general and as a treatment for anorexia, the better you will be able to decide if it’s an appropriate option for you.


The most common forms of brain stimulation include: deep brain stimulation (DBS), electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), magnetic seizure therapy (MST), vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS).
Refer to sources like the Mayo Clinic at http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/deep-brain-stimulation/home/ovc-20156088 or the NIMH website at https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/brain-stimulation-therapies/brain-stimulation-therapies.shtml for information about brain stimulation treatments.;
, Once you have a general understanding of what brain stimulation therapy is, you should learn more about which of the treatments are most commonly used for anorexia. For example, DBS is one of the most frequently used brain stimulation therapies for severe or chronic anorexia, while VNS is not as widely used for anorexia.Ask your medical professional for pamphlets or other handouts with information about brain stimulation treatments for anorexia.
Talk to people who’ve used brain stimulation to treat their anorexia. Ask which therapy they used and ask about their experience with the treatment. For example, you might ask, “Was it an effective treatment for you?”

, In general, specific parts of your brain are activated by electrodes, magnets, or in some other way. Once activated, these parts of the brain either stimulate or suppress certain behaviors.Each brain stimulation therapy is different, though, in how they stimulate the brain. Knowing how brain stimulation therapy works will help you decide which treatment will work for you or if it’s a possible treatment option for you at all. If you’ve already decided it is an option for you, understanding how it works will help you prepare yourself for the treatment you’ll be receiving.


Look at information provided by NIMH https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/brain-stimulation-therapies/brain-stimulation-therapies.shtml about how each of the brain stimulation treatments work.
Some treatments, such as deep brain stimulation, require surgery. Other treatments don’t require surgery but do involve repeated sessions.
 Before undertaking any type of treatment you should have a clear understanding of what the possible risks and side effects might be. This is also true when treating anorexia with brain stimulation. Learning more about side effects and risks will help you decide if it’s a viable treatment option for you and help prepare you for the treatment.


NIMH https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/brain-stimulation-therapies/brain-stimulation-therapies.shtml provides information about the risks and side effects of the most common brain stimulation therapies.
Consider each side effect and whether it’s something you can handle. For example, one side effect of ECT is memory loss. You could ask yourself, “Am I okay with some memory loss because of this treatment?”
Some of the brain stimulation treatments have more risks than others. For example, because it requires surgery, DBS has more risks than rTMS, which doesn’t require surgery.

