 This type of bleeding during pregnancy usually occurs 6 to 12 days after conception--close to the time when the next menstrual cycle is expected. Ask yourself when was the last time you had sex. If more than a month or two has passed, then it's unlikely that what you're seeing is implantation bleeding.Since implantation bleeding may be confused with the normal menstrual cycle, some women are surprised to discover their pregnancy is a month further along than they originally estimated.
Once the pregnancy is confirmed at a doctor's office, the physician can use other testing to determine the correct gestational age of the fetus, particularly if implantation bleeding has left some question about when the last real menstrual cycle occurred.;
, This will help to distinguish between pregnancy implantation and the start of a regular menstrual cycle. Implantation bleeding does not usually resemble bleeding during a normal period. It will be lighter, and of lower quantity. Sometimes, implantation bleeding can just be spotting for a few hours, or even a single spot.Implantation bleeding typically consists of a discharge with a pink or brownish tint. It is often darker than period blood because it takes time for the blood to travel from the uterine wall through the vagina.
The amount of bleeding is relatively light, and will only last a couple of days. For some women, the flow will resemble a very light period, which is why confusion between the 2 occasionally occurs. The majority of women find that menstrual blood is more of a red color and will become heavier within a day or two.
 Pregnancy bleeding from implantation may include some mild cramping as the egg implants and the uterus is changing to accommodate the embryo. However, cramping with implantation bleeding is usually much lighter than what women might experience with a regular period. The tricky thing is that the symptoms of early pregnancy are similar to the symptoms you may feel right before your period.If the abdominal cramping continues to increase, it could indicate a regular period or problem with the pregnancy, such as an ectopic pregnancy. In some cases, the pain might be associated with a completely different medical condition, such as appendicitis or a bladder infection.
Any pain that does not appear to be from your normal period and does not subside on its own within a couple days should be checked by a doctor. Patients that have pain that continues to intensify, or patients that develop other symptoms like fever, chills or heavy bleeding, should see their doctor as soon as possible.

