 Put a towel down when your sit on a machine. Also, wear a towel in the locker room and never sit on benches naked. Switch up towels regularly. Use separate towels for wiping down machines for the face and body.
 Besides making you a more efficient swimmer, this will prevent water from potentially introducing harmful bacteria into your body which can cause recreational water illnesses (RWI). While most RWI-causing germs are killed by chlorine within an hour, an improperly managed pool can harbor and breed this bacteria which can lead to diarrhea, ear, or eye infections., Walking barefoot is an easy way to contract a fungal infection, such as athlete’s foot. Make sure the flip flops are comfortable and have a good grip, you don't want to slip on the wet floor., Bags pick up dirt from being set on dirty surfaces like locker room floors which can then be transferred to the items inside the bag. Washing your bag with soap and hot water is a good start. Follow up with disinfectant spray, or mist the bag with vinegar to kill bacteria., A washing machine cycle with hot water and detergent will make your outfit clean and fresh for the next time you hit the gym. Make sure you are not reusing sweaty clothes for your next workout.
 Items such as exercise mats, weightlifting belts, and resistance bands should be solely yours since they closely touch your body and absorb sweat. Sharing these items will promote the growth of fungus and bacteria.


If buying these items in not an option, consider laying down a towel when using a gym's exercise mat, and using disinfectant wet wipes such as Lysol brand to clean belts and resistance bands.
 Bring a filled bottle from home. You should be able to open it without your hands touching the spout. Be sure to wash reusable bottles regularly with hot, soapy water.
 These intimate items can easily transfer germs from one person to another by picking up tiny bits of skin or even blood. Consider bringing extra sample sized soaps or disposable razors in case someone asks to use yours.