 People will feel more comfortable once they see you as a known quantity. If you are unpredictable, they will keep information from you out of fear.Instead, be predictable. Be steady.


Employees also won’t trust you if you show favoritism. If you punish someone for breaking a rule, you need to punish others who break the same rule.;
, Employees won’t trust you if they think you have a hidden agenda. Accordingly, you need to be open with them. Share information as soon as you can. Always be truthful.


Never lie. Team members talk, and if you say one thing to Janet but another thing to John, they’ll find out you are a liar.
You should also avoid withholding information. For example, if the company is performing poorly, then you should be upfront with your team. There’s no reason to sugarcoat information.
You can’t share everything. For example, if you fire someone, you shouldn’t tell the team why. However, transparency should be your default option., If you say you will do something, do it. If you ask for people’s opinions, then listen actively to what they say. You’ll lose your team’s trust if you say one thing but do another.The key to following through is not overpromising. For example, if you can’t get a team member promoted, don’t promise that you will.
You might want to make few promises initially, at least until you become comfortable in the role.
 Your team will trust your leadership once they see that you are someone who gets results.The longer your track record of success, the better.


Occasionally, you may need to get your hands dirty and help out when the team is overwhelmed. Show that you are as committed to the team’s success as they are.
 Don’t claim something was your idea if you relied, even in part, on someone else’s ideas. Instead, credit the person who contributed and acknowledge how you built on their idea.For example, you can say, “I met with the company president and shared with him Janet’s ideas on a new marketing campaign.” Say this even if Janet’s contribution was small. People will trust you when they see you aren’t trying to steal their credit.
 Any group of three people gossips—two people will talk about the third. However, you should strive to avoid the gossip vine.If you get pulled into your team’s gossip, you won’t look like a leader.


Nevertheless, you should be aware of gossip. Let your secretary or assistant keep you appraised of what is happening.
In particular, pay attention if team members are working to sabotage you.

