 A typical college varsity soccer team trains five or six days a week, and competes in one or two games. As a student athlete, you must develop excellent physical fitness, endurance, and recovery habits.


If you aren't getting enough training with your current school team, look for leagues in your area.;
, These traits are incredibly important to your success. Try to achieve excellent speed and above average stamina in high school. If you're still falling short on your goals in college, you'll be under a lot more pressure to catch up.
 Schedule dedicated muscle-building workouts if you don't already. North American recruiters tend to favor bigger, stronger players, although this depends on the coach's mindset. Other regions may have different philosophies, but being stronger certainly won't hurt you.
 Follow good warm up practices and safety precautions. If you do get injured, even in a minor way, get it checked up and follow your doctor's advice. Besides avoiding the disaster of injuring yourself out of recruitment, you'll learn habits to protect yourself in more demanding situations.
 Your life should not be all about playing soccer. Even professional athletes take rest days to renew their body and mind. Get enough sleep every night, and make some time for friends, fun, and family.
 College coaches often recruit based on position, since they know how returning players will fill out the roster. Focus on the position you're best at, and understand its role in the team.


If your current coach can't help you with this, look up training videos online. Learn the most important skills for each position, and find drills to improve your weak areas.
In countries with highly competitive college soccer, you may need to demonstrate versatility. Learn to play comfortably in every position, including goalkeeper.
 College coaches place a high value on players who have proven their talent in playoff games and regional or national competitions. The more experience of this kind on your resume, the better.
 Don’t be afraid to call the coach yourself to ask questions, even early in the season. Project confidence, mention your soccer achievements, and keep a positive attitude. Besides piquing the coach's interest, you'll learn valuable information to guide your training and decision-making. Ask him to tell you about the team, and which positions he's recruiting for.
 Many high school students underestimate how important this is. Watching local and televised games will vastly improve your understanding of the game. Analyze individual and team decisions, and apply the lessons you learn to your own play.
 Many schools do not allow students to play sports if they have poor academic grades. It is important to balance athletics and academics, as this will only get harder in college.

