 Staring at people is especially creepy in an elevator since you are in such close proximity with your fellow passengers. When someone notices you staring, don’t look away. Instead, widen your eyes and tilt your head so you look especially bizarre.When there is only one other person in the elevator, tap them on the shoulder and pretend it wasn't you.
 Carry on an animated one-sided conversation with an imaginary friend. Pause every couple seconds like you are listening to his replies and act as though you are responding to his questions and comments.Hold the door open, pretending to wait for a friend. After a few seconds, pretend to greet your imaginary friend saying, “Come in Jonathan, what took you so long?”
Have your arm around an imaginary person, and whenever someone comes near, say, "You popped Bubble Buddy!"

, Pretend that you’re observing everyone on the elevator as part of an alien study. Mutter to yourself periodically, “interesting, these humans” while you make notes on a notepad.


Pretend to talk into a tape recorder and say something like, “Day 34. Inside a small rectangular box called an elevator. It seems to be an extremely slow method that humans use to transport themselves.”
Roll up into a ball and cringe in the corner mumbling disturbing things to yourself, like "They are coming!" or "You're next, you're next!"

, Instead of standing still and waiting for the elevator to arrive at your floor, move around constantly. Stand in one spot for a few seconds, then shake your head and move to the opposite side of the elevator. Keep moving like you’re trying to find the optimal place to stand.
 Stand behind someone and tap them on their shoulder. When they look around, give them a questioning look. After they turn back, wait a couple seconds and do it again., If you don't let your fellow passengers in on the joke, they may interpret your eccentricity as creepiness. This is especially true for staring at people and tapping their shoulder. At the end of the ride, say something like, "I wanted you all to know that I was just messing with you! Enjoy the rest of your day!"

