 Identify the reasons that you want to wear makeup. Don't tell your mom you want to wear makeup because everyone else is wearing it. That reason usually doesn't work.Some good reasons to wear makeup may include:


To express your personal style or experiment with your look
To cover up your acne or dark spots because you feel self-conscious
To enhance some of your features
To dress up for special occasions;
, Tell your mom that you would like to have a night in with her. As part of the festivities, ask your mom to show you how to apply makeup. This can be a bonding experience for you and your mom, and you can show her that you value her input.A girls night is also a good way to gauge how your Mom feels about you wearing makeup.


You may say, “Hey Mom. Could you show me how to apply makeup? I want to do it right."
You can also say, “I know you don’t really want me to wear makeup yet, but can you show me so I’ll be ready when the time comes?”

, Approach your Mom when she is not busy and has time to talk. Long car rides and walks are good opportunities to approach her. Also make sure that she is in a good mood and is not irritated about something.You can say, “Hey Mom, Can we talk?” or “I wanted to talk to you about something. Is now a good time?”
If you can’t find the right time, you can say, “I need to talk to you about something. When is a good time for you?”

, Be clear, direct, and honest about why ou want to wear makeup. Be sure to emphasize that you know you do not need to wear makeup to look good, but this is just something you would like to try out.You may say, “I feel really self-conscious about my acne. Wearing makeup would help me feel a lot better about it.”
You may say,”Hey Mom, I would like to start wearing some makeup. I just want to enhance my looks a little bit. Is this ok?”
You could also say, “You know I was invited to a birthday party this weekend. I would love to wear a little makeup for the event. What do you think about that?”
If your Mom wears makeup, you could say, “You always look so beautiful with your makeup. Can I wear a little?”
It may help to write down your thoughts before you talk to your mom. It may help you communicate more clearly.
 Once you explain your reasons for wanting to wear makeup, listen to what she has to say. This is especially important if she is against you wearing makeup. Even if you do not like her answer, try to understand her point of view.You can say, “I understand where you are coming from” or “I get it. That makes sense.”

