 When we make these vows to each other it probably doesn't enter our minds what could happen down the road, but nonetheless we made a promise that we had the best intentions of keeping. During difficult financial times those vows become far more prominent and necessary. Stick with it not because of the promise you made but because of the person you made it to.;
, Bad luck turns into good luck, poor can turn into rich (or at least stable again). Always keep in your mind that things will bounce back, it will be tough, maybe even really tough, for a while but eventually it will change.
 It is so easy, especially when we are frustrated and suffering under stress, to start pointing the finger. It's human nature and for some reason we think it makes us feel better, in the end it doesn't do anyone any good, including yourself. From your partners point of view, you have to think that blaming them is the last thing in the world that they would want to hear. We all blame ourselves on the inside anyway, even if we know that it's not true so before you start to speak out of turn just take a second to think, "how would I feel if they said that to me right now?".
 One of the greatest pieces of advice for any marriage it to stick everything out together, there is nothing that you cannot beat as long as it is together. Now it may sound trite and perhaps that's why we don't all go around saying it out loud but it is true nonetheless. The basic idea of a marriage is you become one unit, two people that are stronger as one unit together then they are on their own. If you have used the tip above and are not blaming each other for your financial circumstances then logically you already sticking together through it.
 Whenever we face hard times in any area of our lives it's easy to fall into a slump or worse. Using laughter between you will lighten the mood, bring you together and will show each other that there is more to life then just worrying about the finances. Make jokes, be silly, pull faces, anything that will help to ease the tension that you will be feeling.
 Although it may not be possible to find an overall solution to your money problems, take smaller steps and talk things through with your spouse to try to combat the lesser issues. So instead of sitting with your head in your hands concerned with "How will we ever get through this?", start smaller with questions like "How can we arrange to pay the next bill?". By not attempting to fathom a way to solve the big picture it will elevate heightened frustration and you will feel as if you are both more in control of your situation and able to slowly get back on your feet.
 In every relationship there is always a more dominant and more submissive character. When times get hard, try not to take control or have control taken completely out of your hands. It is sometimes easier to bury your head in the sand or to unleash your inner control-freak but in the essence of getting through the tough times with your marriage still in tact, try to balance the control as equally as possible between you.
 Always keep in mind that no matter what has happened or even what is still to come as long as you have each other(and your health) then that is what counts. And if you can get through this in one piece still with each other at the end then there is no doubt that you can get through anything.

