 When you decide to tell your partner about your partner about your gambling addiction, you should make sure that you do it at a good time and place. You need to make sure there is plenty of time to go into everything or answer any questions that your partner has.Choose a private place where you won’t be interrupted. Remove all distractions from the room.
Talk when both of you have time. The conversation may take a long time, so make sure you don’t have to go to work or an appointment around the time.
 You should be honest about your gambling addiction. Tell your partner about how you have gambled, debt you have accrued, and lengths you have gone to gamble. You may not want to reveal everything at once, but don’t lie or try to hold things back. This is a moment for you to get everything out into the open.Say to your partner, "I have a gambling addiction. Because of this, I have gotten into some debt."
Talk about the emotions that go with your addiction as well. This may help your partner to feel some empathy for you and be more understanding. For example, you might say something like, "Gambling is an escape for me. When I am feeling sad, frustrated, or lonely, I want to go to the casino. It helps me to ignore these feelings for a while, but they are still there after I leave."

, Your partner will probably have a lot to say after you tell them about your addiction. You should actively listen to them without judgment. Your partner may express fears, have questions, or voice concerns. Your partner may get angry or be confused. Listen to what they are saying.When your partner has questions, answer them to the best of your ability. Show them that you understand what they are saying.
 Your gambling disorder may have caused a lot of hurt for you and your family. You should acknowledge any problems you have caused or hurt you have caused for your partner. Apologize for things that you have have done to them.Don’t ignore past hurts because you are embarrassed or they are painful. Acknowledge them now so you can move past them, you both can start to heal, and not dwell on them in the future.
For example, you can say to your partner, "I apologize for my actions due to my gambling. I am sorry I caused you any pain."

, You should tell your partner the treatment plan you are on to help your gambling addiction. Explaining that you are getting help, or you want to take the steps to get help, will help show your partner that you are serious about making a recovery.


Your treatment may include rehab, support groups, psychotherapy, and lifestyle management techniques. Also let your partner know if you take any medication.
 Many times, gambling addiction comes along with other addictions, such as substance abuse. If you are suffering from something else, like alcohol abuse, share that with your partner at the same time. Explain what you are doing to treat and recover from that addiction also., You may have certain situations that cause you to want to gamble. These triggers may be situations, people, places, or substances. You should make your partner aware of these triggers so they can help you avoid them and manage if you have to face them.You should also discuss how you have eliminated triggers or what measures you take to deal with triggers when you encounter them.
For example, your triggers may be stress, boredom, or having cash in your pocket.
 Because of any problems due to your gambling, you may benefit from going to couples counseling. Couples therapy can help you work on issues in your relationship that need to be resolved. A professional counselor can help you if you are having trouble moving forward in your relationship on your own.You may also suggest that your partner go to a support group. They can try a Gambler’s Anonymous meeting, or find a meeting in your area for the loved ones of those facing addiction.

