 Instead of apologizing for your less-than-ideal actions toward others, thank them for their understanding actions toward you. If you were late, for example, say, “Thank you for being patient while I was running late,” rather than simply apologizing.This lets others know that you not only understand that your actions had consequences on them, but allows you to acknowledge and appreciate that others went out of their way to accommodate you.
Giving thanks should be sincere, just like an apology. Truly consider what you appreciate about someone else’s actions toward you in a situation where you feel the need to apologize. Then, thank them for that action.
Understand that there are some circumstances where an apology may be more appropriate or where both an apology and expressing gratitude may be appropriate. For example, if you spill your coffee on a stranger, then you might say something like, "I am so sorry I stained your blouse! Thank you for being so understanding and kind about it.";
, In many cases, such as at school or work, criticism is often intended to be constructive. Even if the person criticizing you does not deliver their message in the most constructive way, try to thank them for their feedback.When someone criticizes you, tell them, “I am thankful for your feedback and will try to apply it going forward.”
Do not be afraid to ask questions when someone critiques you or your work. Especially in a workplace environment, the more you understand about why a person is critiquing you, the more you can do to work on the problem.
Know that you do not have to take all criticism to heart. When someone offers you non-constructive criticism, thanking them and then letting the issue go shows strength and confidence.
 Instead of thinking critically about yourself, try thanking yourself for what you did do right, even in situations that did not go as planned. Think about the situation, and let yourself know, “I’m thankful that I made this decision in this situation because…”Even if you did not make the best choice or take the best action in a given circumstance, you can still be thankful for your choice because it provided you with the opportunity to reflect, learn, and improve in the future. Try to remind yourself that you are a work in progress and that mistakes are opportunities for you to learn and grow.
Talk to yourself in the mirror or write a letter letting yourself know why you are thankful. Even if it seems silly at the time, communicating with yourself helps reaffirm why you are thankful.

