 Home births are controversial in some parts of the world. You want to be well informed on what to expect and whether this is something that you really want to do. Despite the controversy, low-risk women can generally expect to have a safe home birth with minimal risks to themselves or the baby.A home birth is a safe option if you are having a low-risk and healthy pregnancy. Families who choose home births often want to avoid hospital interventions like epidurals, continuous monitoring of the baby, or drugs to induce labor. Certified midwives — health care professionals who assist in home births — carry all the necessary tools to monitor and deliver a healthy baby.Women who choose home births often like the idea of being in the comfort of their own home, the ability to invite friends or family, and the comfort of moving around to adjust to labor pains. Birthing at home can also be more economical than a hospital birth.;
, Women in high-risk pregnancies are usually advised to avoid home births because of the likelihood of complications for themselves and the baby. Talk to your doctor or a certified midwife about whether a home birth is right for you. Make sure you get clarification from your care provider about whether or not you really are a low-risk pregnancy.


Avoid a home birth if you are diabetic, have high blood pressure, or if you have experienced any pregnancy-related complications. These may range from a past c-section to early or late delivery.
Studies show that women who are first-time mothers present a slightly higher risk of complications during home births than women who have had previous pregnancies. Consider a birthing center led by midwives if you are unsure.Though not at home, a birthing center is meant to be less intimidating than a hospital.
 In addition to the women you may know personally, there are online communities that provide information about a home birth experience.Prepare a list of questions if you are meeting a woman in person. Ask for recommendations about hospitals, health care professionals, and birthing equipment. Every birth is different, but a firsthand account may help you make a more confident decision.
Search the web for home birth stories and videos. Seeing a real birth may help you prepare for the big day.

