 Be careful not to overdo it - you don't want your lips to become so irritated its counterproductive. Be gentle, you don't want to burn yourself or irritate your skin.;
, There are a few good brands that will literally plump up, smooth out and moisten your lips. You could also use pucker up lip balm or any type of lip balm.


Check the ingredient label before purchasing a lip plumper. Many of these products use food-based additives, like cinnamon or wintergreen, which may cause your lips to swell and itch. Some lip plumpers also contain ephedrine, which could cause serious allergic reactions.
Apply the lip plumper the same way that you would apply lipstick or lip gloss. Make sure that you avoid applying the plumper to skin outside the edges of your lips.
Wipe off your lip plumper before putting on your lipstick, lip gloss or lip balm. You can imagine what might happen to your partner's lips if you kiss them while wearing lip plumper.
For a natural alternative, cayenne pepper or salt can be used - but these can be irritating and drying to the lips. Apply a very small amount of the powder across the lips, and top with your favorite lip gloss. The cayenne will plump and color the lips by making the blood flow increase (the same action the lip plumpers create), and the gloss will provide shine and moisture.
 Highlighting a feature by using a lighter color will bring the feature forward from the background.


Remove the cap from the pencil and make sure that the tip is sharpened.
Outline each side of the divot between your nose and your upper lip.
Start by placing the pencil tip just under your nose against the right ridge of the divot.
Trace the ridge downward until you reach the edge of your upper lip.
Repeat the tracing process along the left ridge of the divot.
Outline your cupid's bow. The cupid's bow is the area at the base of the divot and in the center of your top lip.
Trace from each point of your cupid's bow to the outer corners of your upper lip. Make sure that you don't outline your bottom lip.
Use the tip of your finger or a makeup sponge to gently blend the lip liner into your skin. The lip liner should not produce a stark line, but it should still be visible enough to highlight the area that you intended.
Fill in your upper and lower lips with your favorite lipstick, lip gloss or tinted lip balm. While you should use a product that makes you feel comfortable with your look, shinier or glossier lipstick will produce the illusion of fuller lips.
