 If you are overweight, weight loss is one of the key lifestyle modifications you can make to decrease the stress on your arthritic joint, and hence to reduce the pain.


Note that if you are not currently overweight, this strategy does not apply to you. It only applies if you are currently above your ideal body weight.
Speak to your doctor or to a nutritionist about a healthy weight loss plan for you, and ask him what your ideal body weight should be.
It is important to lose weight in a way that does not compromise your nutrition (such as extreme dieting), and in a way that is sustainable for you in the long term.;
, Sports that put you at a higher risk of injury and that can lead to arthritis include ones with a lot of pounding such as running, as well as skiing, snowboarding, basketball, hockey, and football, among others.


For many people, giving up a sport they love in order to prevent further injury can be a challenging decision. Many people who injure themselves in athletics are very passionate about the sport they play.
It is important to consider not only your short-term satisfaction of playing the sport, but also your long-term quality of life, which may be compromised if you continue to put undue stress on your injured and arthritic joint.
Think about whether there are any other lower-impact sports or activities you enjoy. Perhaps you can try swimming, riding a bicycle, or water running, as all of these activities are excellent for your cardiovascular health and fitness and also low-impact for your joints.
 If you have a physically demanding or strenuous job that stresses your injured joint, ask your boss if you can switch to alternative duties at work. Perhaps there is a desk job you can do, or another task that does not involve the same amount of physical stress and strain.


Consider getting a medical note from your doctor that explains to your boss the importance of not further stressing your injured and arthritic joint, particularly if the initial traumatic injury was sustained at work.
If you were injured on the job initially, look into the possibility of worker's compensation and/or employment insurance. You may receive coverage. If your injury is particularly severe, you may get disability pay without needing to return to work.
 Strengthening the surrounding muscles can help to reduce the impact and the load on the joint itself.


The exercises prescribed to you by your physiotherapist will depend upon the nature of your injury, and which joint specifically is affected.
 It is also recommended to consume more fish, which is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, and/or walnuts and flaxseed which also contain omega-3 fatty acids. Finally, consume plenty of organic fruits and vegetables; the antioxidants contained in these can help with post-traumatic arthritis.
 These include evening primrose oil, omega-3 fatty acids, chondroitin, and glucosamine sulphate. Speak to your naturopath if you are interested in trying natural supplements as a means to treat your post-traumatic arthritis.

