 Put the dry rice in a large mixing bowl. Run warm water in the sink, then add enough warm water to the bowl to cover the rice. The precise amount isn't important. Set aside for 20 minutes.


This softens the rice for a slightly quicker cook time and draws the starch out for a better texture.
While you wait for the rice to soak, you can save time by preparing the rest of your ingredients (e.g., chopping your onion, measuring your spices, etc.) and proceeding through the next few steps.;
, Heat the oil in a large, steep-sided saucepan or pot over medium heat. When the oil is hot (drops of water in the pan should sizzle instantly), add the cinnamon stick, cardamom pods, cloves, and cumin seed. Let these ingredients cook for about a minute as you stir them frequently.


"Toasting" these ingredients will help release their flavor for a tastier, more aromatic final product. Your goal isn't to char or fry these ingredients, so stir often.
 Add the chopped onion to the pan. Stir to combine with the seasonings. Let the onion sautee in the pan, stirring about every minute or so. Cook the ingredients together for about 10 minutes.


The onion is ready when it reaches a pleasant brownish color with crisp, semi-blackened edges. It should be soft to bite into and shouldn't have the bitter "bite" of a raw onion. The time it takes to get to this stage can vary depending on your stove, so keep an eye on your pan.
 Once the excess water has been removed from the rice, stir it in with the other ingredients. The rice will still be damp and will sizzle when it is added. Stir frequently to prevent burning or sticking. Continue like this for a few minutes to "toast" the rice.


To drain rice, you will want to use a fine mesh colander or strainer. Don't use the sort of colander you'd use for pasta — the rice will fall through the holes.In a pinch, you can even use a clean coffee filter.
The rice may turn an opaque white color as it toasts. This is normal. You don't want it to turn brown, however. This is a sign that it is burning.
 After a few minutes of toasting the rice, pour the water into the pan along with a few pinches of salt. Increase the heat slightly to bring the water to a boil.
 Stir the ingredients in the water a few times to combine, then cover the pan with a lid to keep the heat in. Reduce the heat to bring the water to a gentle simmer. Let the rice cook undisturbed for about 15 minutes or until it reaches your preferred texture (see below).


As the rice simmers, it will gradually absorb the water and grow softer. Basmati rice is generally best when it is fairly soft and fluffy, which usually takes about 15 minutes. However, if you like it firmer or softer, you may want to stop the cooking process a few minutes on either side of this.
 Turn off the heat. Let the rice sit undisturbed for about five minutes. The rice will continue to cook and absorb some of the moisture.


At this point, most (or all) of the water should be gone from the pan. If the rice is still firm or crunchy, it's not done yet. Add a little extra water to the pan (if none remains) and simmer for another 10 minutes. After this, let the rice sit for five minutes as normal.
 When rice finishes cooking, it settles to the bottom of the pan, taking the shape of the container. Stir the rice up with a fork. This is referred to as "fluffing" the rice. It will give the rice more volume and allow any inner moisture to evaporate more easily.About a minute after fluffing, the rice is ready to serve. Scoop portions onto serving plates. It should cling to itself somewhat, so it can be eaten with a fork or spoon.

