 If you notice a family member may be suffering from a mental health illness or they have recently been diagnosed, it is important to talk openly with them about their health. Mental illness is something we don’t talk about enough in our society. The best way to show your relative support is by talking openly and positively about mental illness. Some tips for talking about mental illness include: Communicate in a direct and clear manner. For example, you might say “I have been worried about you lately. Is there anything I can do to help?”
Use language that is appropriate to the age and developmental level of your relative. If you are speaking with a child don’t provide too many details.
Discuss mental illness in a place where your family member feels safe and comfortable.
Be aware of their reactions and slow down if they seem overwhelmed or confused during the conversation.
 Some mental illnesses will require professional therapy. It is important to know that in some instances you will not be able to help your relative overcome their mental health issues. Your relative may feel more comfortable discussing their mental health issues with someone they don’t know, like a therapist or support group. In these circumstances it is important that you are supportive and encourage them to seek out a professional therapist. You may say “I know you have been struggling lately and you may not be comfortable talking to me about your condition. That is okay. Can I assist you in finding someone to talk to?”

, By knowing the details of the specific illness you can provide better care and support. Not understanding the illness and symptoms may lead to misconceptions and will impact your ability to give adequate care. For example, you are more likely to understand and sympathize with the suicidal thoughts of a loved one suffering from depression if you are educated about depression.
 Often when an individual is suffering from a mental illness they feel as though they have lost control over their life and they struggle with self esteem. You can help them feel in control again by allowing them to take part in decision making. For example, if your loved one decides to wear an outfit that doesn’t match don’t criticize them. This is not a major decision and by letting them choose their own clothing they will feel some sense of normalcy.
 At times caring for a loved one with mental health issues can be frustrating and exhausting. It is important to remain calm and positive even during stressful periods. Remember that they also feel frustrated and likely have less control over their actions. Try and avoid responding to your loved one in an angry manner.


For example, if your loved one is aggressive or violent you may respond by saying “I understand you are frustrated, but we do not allow violence in our household.”

