 Some forms of independence can be learned at a very young age. Teach self-entertainment to even the youngest baby by providing enough sensory stimuli to keep the baby busy.


For the most basic type of self-entertainment, make sure a baby has an appropriate mobile over his or her crib. Crib mobiles should have bright, bold colors and simple, large shapes. You can either pick out a mobile from a store or make one yourself. Put the mobile above the crib, preferably in a spot where it will spin slowly. A young baby's eyes cannot track fast movements.Avoid places with a stronger air flow. A baby watching a mobile may seem to stare off into space, looking bored to an adult. In reality, the baby is engrossed with simply looking at these simple objects.
Play gentle music for audio stimulation. It doesn't need to be Mozart for a baby to learn from it. Just make sure the baby seems to enjoy the music. Like the mobile, babies can be entertained with very simple sensory experiences.Being allowed to play independently is actually a very important part of a baby's early development. If babies are never left to learn how to entertain themselves, they may end up too easily distracted and dependent on adults., Toys are an important part of an enriched environment. Consider saving a certain toy for special occasions, such as needing to entertain an especially unhappy baby.


Self-directed play develops many important skills in addition to keeping babies entertained. For example, simple building blocks go a long way in promoting motor skills and creativity. For older babies, dolls can encourage pretend play. Noisy toys will provide auditory stimulation while teaching babies about cause and effect.
Don't leave very young babies alone with toys. Even the sturdiest-seeming toy may break into smaller pieces and become a choking hazard. Plush toys aren't completely safe, either, as they can suffocate an unattended baby.
Remember that simple, inexpensive toys work just as well as expensive electronic ones., Start out engaging with the baby using a toy or book. Once the baby gets engrossed in the activity, walk away for a few minutes.


Don't ever leave a baby under one-year-old completely alone. Instead, simply sit a few feet away in a position where you can see the baby but the baby can't see you. Talk to the baby every few minutes to help the baby feel safe and secure.Make sure any place you put a baby is completely baby-proofed and secure.Once babies learn how to entertain themselves with what they have on hand, they can become less fussy and easier to entertain directly.
 Even heavily enriched environments should be changed from time to time. Try taking the baby to new places for your walks. When baby is especially fussy, try introducing a brand new toy. Consider periodically redecorating the baby's play area., Once babies learn to crawl, they can begin to entertain themselves in many new and exciting ways. An effective way of encouraging self-directed play is to keep a baby curious. When introducing a new toy to a play area, try placing it a few feet away and praising the baby when he or she crawls over to it. Never scold a baby for being curious unless the baby tries to do something seriously dangerous.