 The average person needs 1 gallon (4 liters) of water each day, half for drinking and half for food preparation and hygiene. Increase this number to 1.5 gallons (5.5 L) per person or more for children, nursing mothers, and sick people, and for anyone in a hot or high-altitude climate. Based on these numbers, try to store a two week supply for your household.In case of an emergency evacuation, store a three day supply in easily transportable containers.For example, two healthy adults and one child need (1 gallon / adult) x (2 adults) + (1.5 gal / child) x (1 child) = 3.5 gallons (13 L) per day.
A two week supply of water for this household is (3.5 gallons / day) x (14 days) = 49 gallons (185 L).
A three day supply would be (3.5 gal/day) x (3 days) = 10.5 gallons (40 L).;
, In areas that regulate bottled water, including the U.S. and E.U., sealed bottles of water are already sanitary and will stay good indefinitely. If you go this route, you can skip straight to storage.Check the label for certification by the IBWA (International Bottled Water Association), NSF (National Sanitation Foundation), or UL (Underwriters Laboratories). These demonstrate the product has met safety and quality standards.This is more important in countries that do not regulate bottled water.
 Plastic food or beverage containers marked "HDPE" or with a #2 recycling symbol are excellent options.Plastics #4 (LDPE) and #5 (PP) are also safe, as is stainless steel.Never reuse a container that held anything besides food and drink, and only use brand-new empty containers if they are marked "food grade," "food safe," or with a knife and fork symbol.


Milk and fruit juice leave residue that is difficult to remove and encourages bacterial growth. Do not reuse containers that held these drinks.Glass jars are a last resort, since they can easily break in a disaster.
Traditional unglazed pottery jars can help keep the water cool in warm climates. Use one with a narrow mouth, lid, and tap if possible to encourage sanitary handling., Wash them with soap and hot water, then rinse. If a container previously held food or drink, disinfect it with one of the following methods:


Fill with water and mix in 1 tsp (5 mL) liquid household bleach for every quart (liter) of water. Swish to touch all surfaces, then rinse well.For stainless steel or heat-safe glass, submerge in boiling water for 10 minutes, plus 1 minute for each 1,000 ft (300 m) of altitude above the first.This is the best method for steel, since chlorine bleach can corrode the metal., If your tap water is not safe to drink or if you get your water from a well, disinfect it right before storage. The best way to do this is to bring the water to a rolling boil for one minute, or three minutes at elevations above 5,000 ft (1,000 m).If you cannot boil the water, or do not want to lose water by boiling it, bleach is the next best option:Mix in ½ tsp (2.5 mL) of unscented, additive-free bleach for every 5 gallons (19 L) of water. Double the amount of bleach if the water is cloudy or discolored.
Let the water sit for half an hour.
If you cannot smell a faint chlorine scent, repeat treatment and let sit another 15 minutes.
 Boiling or chlorine will kill microorganisms, but they will not remove lead or heavy metals. If your water is contaminated by runoff from farms, mines, or factories, pour it through an activated carbon filter and a reverse osmosis (RO) filter.You can make your own filter out of common materials. While not as effective as a commercial filter, it will remove sediment and some toxins.

