 You may be tempted to rant or vent to your friends about the problems going on in your marriage, but this isn’t always a good idea.The friend that you are venting to may try to use the information as a way to tempt you (or your spouse) with an affair. Instead of letting other people know the intimate details about your relationship, protect your marriage from adultery by talking to your spouse about your issues first.


Turning to someone else to vent about your marriage may open the door for temptation. For example, you may start off talking to a friend about your marriage and then find yourself falling for your friend simply because you are angry with your spouse.
Consider whether you would want your spouse sharing your marital problems with their friends.
Sometimes talking to a professional, like a marriage counselor, can strengthen your marriage because of the objectivity they bring to the situation and problem-solving techniques they can share with you and your spouse. A good rule of thumb is to only talk about your marriage to parties that have been agreed upon by both sides.
 One thing that can cause problems in a marriage is when spouses attack each other during conflict instead of resolving the actual issue.When this happens it can create bigger problems that open the door for adultery. You can protect your marriage from adultery if you make sure that you are handling the conflicts in your marriage in a mature way.


Avoid calling each names. For example, calling your husband ‘stupid’ or ‘lazy’ because you want him to do some home repairs isn’t a good way to address conflict.
Don’t say things in order to intentionally hurt your spouse. For instance, bringing up the fact your wife lost her job when you know it bothers her.
Stick to addressing the problem or issue. For example, if the issue is finances then talk about ways to save instead of calling each other shopaholics.
 Holding onto anger, grudges, and resentment can tear any marriage apart – even without an affair. When you have done something wrong, be adult enough to apologize. And when you need to, be adult enough to forgive. Keep in mind that forgiveness does not necessarily mean that full trust is restored. That part often takes longer. Forgiveness is a choice - trust is something that takes work. However, the ability to say you are sorry and to forgive may be one of the most important things you can do to protect your marriage from adultery.When you have done something to hurt or disappoint your spouse, then tell them you are sorry as soon as you can. You could try saying, “Honey, I’m truly sorry for what I did. I know that I hurt you and I never meant for that to happen. Could you forgive me?”
Tell your spouse that you forgive them if they have done something wrong. Sometimes you have to do this even if they haven’t apologized. For instance, you might say, “Babe, I know I was upset and what you did hurt me. I do accept your apology and forgive you, though.”

, There may be sometimes in your marriage that communicating with each other, being intimate, and addressing conflict aren’t enough to protect your marriage from adultery. You may have unresolved issues, major conflict, or need a different perspective on how to keep your marriage intact. Seeking counseling from a family or marriage therapist can provide you and your spouse with the support and strategies you need to help prevent either of you from committing adultery.Don’t put off seeking marriage counseling either. Waiting too long can make it harder to deal with the issues. You can seek marriage counseling even for small problems in your relationship to help stave off major problems.
Consider seeking counseling from your religious leader if you all are active in a religious community.
Look into marriage support groups that can provide you and your spouse a way to seek support.
Talk to a marriage counselor or similar professional to address serious issues in your relationship.
 In some cases, there is nothing you can do to protect your marriage from adultery. It may be that you or your spouse are not committed to the relationship, or have problems with commitment in general. If you have done what you can to protect your marriage from adultery but still feel or know that an affair is occurring, you need to accept reality and decide how to address it.If you or your spouse has committed adultery in the past, it may take extra effort on both of your parts to protect the marriage from adultery in the future.
Remember that it takes two people to make a marriage work. You have to admit it and address it if either of you aren’t committed to keep the marriage free from affairs.

