 The “all-American” girl is all about being comfortable. Clothes tend to have a looser fit than is typical in other parts of the world and fabric tends to be thinner (think t-shirts and cotton weaves). If you don’t feel comfortable in it, don’t wear it! , The “all-American” look doesn’t shy away from bright colors and bold patterns. When you’re “all-American,” you’re confident and not afraid to stand out. Feel free to choose patterns and colors that grab your attention. , The “all-American” style is not as focused on layering of clothing as the European and Asian styles tend to be. Pick one top (maybe two) and one bottom that work well together. The most exciting parts of the “all-American” style tend to come from accessories. Simple and comfortable clothing is the hallmark of American style. , The “all-American” look uses bold accessories. Think long, sparkly earrings and chunky bracelets. And don’t feel like you have to just choose one bracelet, necklace, or ring—the “all-American” style allows for lots of layering of accessories. , You don’t have to wear them every day, but the “all-American” style is jean-crazy. Denim shorts in summer and long jeans when it’s cool out are staples of the “all-American” look. Choose styles and cuts that you look and feel good in and wear them often. And don’t be afraid to experiment with colored or patterned jeans if you want! , Americans wear more make-up than just about anybody else in the world. Don’t wear more make-up than you’re comfortable with, but do have some fun experimenting with different make-up techniques to see what accentuates your best features. The “all-American” make-up style tends to include several parts: Eyeliner. Use a thick layer on your top lid. Don’t be afraid to try eyeliner in bright colors!
Lots of mascara. Eyelashes are key to the “all-American” make-up style. The idea is to make them look as long and thick as possible, in order to draw attention to your eyes.
Smoky eyes. Make sure you perfect your smoky eye look!
Find a bright, bold lipstick shade that makes your lips pop!

, The “all-American” girl tends to keep her hair down or in a ponytail. Longer hair is more common. A messy “bed-head” hairstyle is popular. And many girls straighten their hair to a sleek shine.
 The most important requirement for an “all-American” girl is that you are true to yourself and your style. Don’t worry about trends, social norms, or expectations. Dress in whatever way makes you feel like your best self. 