 Before bacon can be battered and deep fried, it needs to be heated through to make sure it doesn’t come out undercooked. Lay out your bacon strips on a pan, plate or baking dish, cutting them as needed so they’ll fit in the fryer. Bake, pan fry or microwave the bacon until it’s done, then allow it to cool.


Thick-cut bacon will work best for battering since it will be less brittle and makes for a heartier bite.
Try to get your bacon slightly less done, as it will be cooked a second time later.
 Combine 3 eggs, 2 cups of whole milk and 3 cups of all-purpose flour in a large mixing bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they form a thick batter. Add salt, pepper and other spices to taste. Refrigerate the batter for about 20 minutes to lower the temperature and help it set up.Seasoned salt, garlic salt, onion powder, cayenne pepper and paprika all make great optional flavor additions to fry batter.
The colder the batter is, the better it will fry to a crispy finish and protect the bacon from overcooking., Once the batter has cooled, take it out of the refrigerator and grab your precooked bacon. Dip the bacon into the batter with a pair of tongs, being sure each strip is generously coated on both sides. The bacon is now ready for the fryer.Give the batter a quick stir after it comes out of the refrigerator. If it looks too thick, add an extra splash of milk and whisk again.
If you’re using a thin-sliced bacon, batter the strips by hand so they don’t break.
 Place 2-3 strips of bacon into the hot oil and allow it to start frying. The number of strips you’ll be able to cook per batch will mostly depend on the size of your pan or fryer. Try not to put in too many pieces at one time, or they could stick together or cause the batter to slough off.


Watch out for popping oil when you put the bacon in the deep fryer. Even a small splatter could be extremely painful.
 Give the bacon a little time to absorb the oil and start sizzling. Since the light, airy batter will cause the bacon to float on top of the oil, the slices will need to be turned after a couple minutes. Once the batter begins to puff up and turn a pleasant golden brown, the bacon will be perfectly done.For this method, you’ll be watching the color of the batter rather than the bacon to determine when its done.
Remove the bacon from the fryer before it turns a darker brown. The oil will continue to cook the batter for another minute or two after you take it out.
 Use your tongs to grab the bacon slices out of the hot oil. Place them on a folded paper towel to soak up excess oil and let them cool off until they’re edible. Repeat the deep frying process until you’ve cooked all the bacon you want. The finished product is a salty, decadent snack that you just might find yourself addicted to!Savor the deep fried bacon right away so that it’s still hot, fresh and crispy.
Because of its high fat and sodium content, deep fried bacon should only be enjoyed as an occasional indulgence.,