 Look at the graph and see if it points up or down, but you will need to look into the stats in more detail if you want to increase your traffic even more. Look into what sites bring members and what pages are the most popular on your site, and create more pages like that.;
, Another alternative is using a free traffic exchange website like http://petlip.com/boosthits. People on Reddit will be interested in your topic and as long as you keep to the rules, you should gain a lot of traffic.]

, Don't mess up coding or make the site look like it was done by an amateur. People will just go on to professional sites if they don't like yours, so make people think that yours is as professional as it can be and people will stay and read the content.
 If you are starting a games website, what will the main age range be? What language will you use? Don't use complicated language for a gaming site, make it more relaxed. A politics site may use more complex language, make it readable for the target audience.
 There are lots of sites that will let you buy advertising with them, you just have to ask them. Make sure you have enough money and then pay them upfront and they will put your advisement on their site for as long as you have asked for.
 Don't give up if you don't get the traffic that you want straight away. It takes a while before you see a good amount of traffic coming onto your site. Google has to index it and you have to get it to a good page rank before the good traffic will come.
 No one wants to read a small site; keep writing more things and there will be more for your readers to read.
 Put a comment box underneath posts and ask questions in your posts, eg, "We think this is a good idea and we would like to hear from you." People will then reply to this in the comments section. Keep up the conversation with them and they will keep coming back.
 People will see new content as it is published when they subscribe to your site. make it visible but not too big and in the way.
 Twitter is an excellent way of getting people to your site. Stay active on these sites, and people will see you on them and notice your site.

