 Before you can effectively teach Singapore Math, you need to understand not only how it works, but the philosophy behind its development. Singapore Math probably isn’t like the math education you grew up with, so it may take a little getting used to. The general philosophy of Singapore Math is best explained using its framework, which has 5 components: Concepts, Skills, Processes, Attitudes, and Metacognition. These 5 components are key to the development of mathematical problem solving abilities.Concepts refers to numerical, algebraic, geometrical, statistical, probabilistic, and analytical concepts.

Skills refers to numerical calculation, algebraic manipulation, spatial visualization, data analysis, measurement, use of mathematical tools, and estimation.

Processes refers to reasoning, communication and connections, thinking skills and heuristics, and application and modelling.

Attitudes refers to beliefs, interest, appreciation, confidence, and perseverance.

Metacognition refers to monitoring of one’s own thinking and self-regulation of learning.;
, Students need to learn each of these mathematical concepts — numerical, algebraic, geometrical, statistical, probabilistic, and analytical — as individual ideas, but more importantly, they need to learn how they are connected together. Students need to be given a selection of materials and examples in order to grasp these concepts and understand how they are all connected. They also need to be able to apply these concepts in active mathematical problem solving in order to be more confident with their mathematical skills., Students need to learn a variety of mathematical skills, including: numerical calculation, algebraic manipulation, spatial visualization, data analysis, measurement, the use of math tools, and estimation. They need these skills in order to learn and use the mathematical concepts they’re being taught. They key to Singapore Math, however, is not to over-emphasize the “how” and under-emphasize the “why.” It is vital that students understand why a mathematical principle works, not just how to solve a mathematical problem., Mathematical processes, sometimes also referred to as knowledge skills, include such abilities as: reasoning, communication and connections, thinking skills and heuristics, and application and modelling. All of these knowledge skills are needed and used to better understand a mathematical problem and the process that is used to solve it.Reasoning — is the ability to analyze a specific mathematical problem and develop logical arguments about the problem. Students learn these skills by applying the same reasoning to different mathematical problems in different contexts.

Communication — is the language of mathematics. A student needs to be able to understand the mathematical language of a problem, and express concepts, ideas, and arguments in that same language.

Connections — is the ability to connect mathematical concepts together. It is also the ability to link mathematical ideas to non-mathematical subjects and the real world. Being able to make these connections allows the student to actually make sense of what is being taught in the context of their day-to-day lives.

Thinking Skills — are skills that can help a student think the way through a mathematical problem, and may include: classifying, comparing, sequencing, analyzing parts or wholes, identifying patterns and relationships, induction, deduction, and spatial visualization.

Heuristics — are similar to thinking skills and are divided into four categories: the ability to provide a representation of the problem (e.g. diagram, list, etc.); the ability to make a calculated guess; the ability to work through the process in various ways; and the ability to alter the problem in order to better understand it.

Application — means using the mathematical problem solving skills a student develops for a variety of reasons, including every day problems and situations.

Mathematical Modelling — is being able to apply representations of data to a specific problem and then determine which methods and tools should be used to solve the problem.
 For some reason math always gets a bad rep in school. However, this reputation doesn’t necessarily develop because math is hard. It partly develops because math can be boring. What kid wants to spend hours learning their times tables!? Mathematical attitudes is the concept of making math fun and exciting so a child’s experiences with learning math are positive ones.In addition to fun and exciting, mathematical attitudes also refers to the ability for a student to take a math concept, method, or tool they’ve learned and use it in their actual day-to-day lives. This type of application happens when a student understands why a concept works and realizes what other situations that concept can be applied to.
 Metacognition is an odd concept — it relates to being able to think about how you’re thinking, and proactively control that thinking. It is used to better teach students problem solving skills without overwhelming them. Some ways in which metacognition is used to teach Singapore Math are:Teaching general (non-mathematical) problem solving and thinking skills and demonstrating how these skills can be used to solve problems (both mathematical and non-mathematical).
Having students think through a problem out loud, so their minds are focused only on the problem at hand.
Giving students problems to solve that require the student to plan how they’re going to solve the problem, and then evaluate how they solved the problem.
Having students solve the same problem using more than one method or concept.
Allowing students to work together to solve a problem by discussing various methods that could be applied.
 Singapore Math does not attempt to teach a student all concepts and methods all at once. Instead these concepts are introduced in stages over a period of time. First a student is taught a concrete concept that is very specific, such as manipulating numbers by counting. Then the student is taught the concept using pictures instead of actual numbers. Finally the student is taught the concept using an abstract approach where a number often represents something else.

