 All states have set up an online database where users can search for registered sex offenders using different methods. States are required to establish and maintain these databases under federal law.
 Some databases allow you to search by name, general location, specific address, social security number, and, in some states, even license plate number. The more information you have about the individual, the easier that it is to quickly narrow your search. However, even if you only know the general neighborhood in which the individual lives, you should be able to get a listing of all registered sex offenders in that neighborhood.
 Each state provides users with different information about its registered offenders. Some states provide full names, addresses, the nature of the person’s criminal conviction, and even photos, while other states provide very little information online at all.
 If you know that an individual has lived in another state, you should search that state's online sex offender database as well. It is not unusual to find a sex offender listed in the databases of multiple states for the same offense. This occurs because the sex offender has moved from one state to another while he or she is still required to register as a sex offender. The individual has to register with the new jurisdiction when moving addresses, just as he or she did with the previous jurisdiction in which he or she lived.
 The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) maintains the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website (“NSOPW”), which provides users with a way to search for sex offenders in all jurisdictions at once. This can be very useful in determining if a person is a registered sex offender in another county, state, U.S. Territory, or Indian tribe., While some of these services will charge you a fee, there are several ways to access a large amount of public databases for free. These information sources can help you find out if an individual has ever been arrested, charged with, or convicted of, a sex-related crime., Information about whether a person is a registered sex offender is free and accessible to the public. Therefore, it is not illegal to possess this information, tell others about this information, or even post it online if you believe it to be true, accurate, and from a reliable source.

