 It's always great to know of what you get before you buy and that is why we have research. Mbuna cichlid, a type of cichlid from lake Malawi, come in hundreds of types, but the mostly community cichlids can vary from 5-6" in length yet, some can be smaller. These cichlids can be kept in a community aquarium but, some do not do as well as others. The minimum of gallons for a community aquarium is at least 75 gallons (283.906 Liters).;
, African cichlids, (like all cichlids) need heated water. A decent temperature in the aquarium would be 73*F-80*F (21.6*C-26.6*C).
 However some bottom dwelling catfish can be kept with Mbuna cichlids, if the water parameters are similar.
 Acclimation should at least take 15-30 minutes, and without acclimation the cichlid or any other fish would have aquarium shock. When acclimation leave the aquarium light off, then place the bag in the water letting it set for 15-30 minutes, then gently opening the bag, netting the fish out into the aquarium, then disposing of the water without water reaching into the aquarium.
 Keeping them in an aquarium cluttered with hiding spots is a great way to keep your cichlid from becoming stressed. Stacked rocks, flowerpots and aquarium plants can be kept in the aquarium as successful hiding spots, as well as Driftwood.
 Feeding your cichlid what's best usually gives them proper nutrition which will promote growth and may help to enhance color. Mbuna while considered herbivores amongst many, are technically omnivores. In the wild, they graze rocks and lake beds for algae and consume small crustaceans as a result of this type of feeding. That does not mean you should start throwing blood worms or krill in to the tank however. In fact, foods high in animal protein can lead to a hard to treat and usually fatal illness known as Malawi bloat. Many hobbyist give krill for a treat and to substitute normal feedings once a month or so and it is recommended to never feed blood worms. Fresh veggies such as blanched peas, cucumber, squash, cabbage, and romaine lettuce can also be given but be sure to clean these foods thoroughly. Foods such as: Cichlid pellets designed for African cichlids and/or spirulina flakes would suit these cichlids best.

