 Concealer in a shade slightly lighter than your skin tone illuminates the eye area, eliminates dark circles, and draws attention to dark lashes. Dab it underneath and around the eyes, and blend.;
, Apply it from your lash line to your brow bone.
 Emphasizing these two areas gives the eyes subtle definition, and creates the illusion of wider eyes.
 Blend upwards toward the middle of the eyelid, as well as on the brow bones. This step brightens and awakens the eyes.
 Apply white eyeshadow either on an angled brush or your finger. This step helps reduce the look of bloodshot eyes, and has an instant opening effect.
 Do not line the lower lashline, as this shrinks the eye.
 When eyelashes are straight, they cast a shadow on the rest of the eye. This step, which takes less than twenty seconds, often has the biggest effects.
 Whether its two applications or seven, the creation of a dark veil of lashes is the most important step in making the eyes appear larger. With semi-shut eyes,focus on the center of the upper lashline and on the lashes at the outer corners of your eyes. A waterproof mascara on the lower lashline prevents the inevitable smudging and creasing .
 Slowly pull the comb upwards through the lashes. This step gets rid of clumps and defines the individual lashes, making it look less like you're wearing mascara.
 Arched, well-groomed brows frame the eyes, and the first time you look in the mirror after grooming them, you'll ask yourself why you never did before! Tweeze stray hairs above and below the brows, then fill in the gaps with an ashy-colored pencil or powder.
 Moisturized lips are necessary as a base for lipstick, liner, and gloss.
 Instead of applying it so it perfectly reflects the shape of your lips, level out the curve of the cupid's bow. This will help your lips appear plumper on top.
 Avoid plums and wines because just like dark clothing makes our figures look slimmer, dark lip colors will make our lips look smaller.
 For an extra "boost", a lip-plumping formula will plump up lips further with a refreshing tingle.
,


Before:
After:

