 Etsy is a massive marketplace with many thousands of shops; make your product stand out by creating something unique to you. Research what other shops are selling, current trends in your area, and design your product based on what you find. Your goal is to create something so new and irresistible that people can’t help but want to buy it.


If you make something that is very commonly sold on Etsy - such as jewelry or prints - don’t worry about making something so unique that it becomes strange. Just make sure that the things you make share a theme or motif unique to your style.;
, Although you want your shop to be one of a kind, it is important to stay in your area of expertise and enjoyment. Love for your work will show through in the products you make, so be sure that you truly enjoy creating whatever your product is.


If you are a jack of all trades, consider making a list of possible products you would like to create. Rank them based on your level of knowledge before going back to make final decisions.
Don’t feel stuck in one category. Your Etsy shop is your shop - you get to make whatever you want. If you love making lots of different things, then make lots of different things. Just be sure that all your products carry a common thread so that your shop doesn’t seem unorganized.
 Although you are making something you love, you have to make something that also desirable to others. Consider your target audience, and what they are looking for in your product. What age range, gender, and primary occupation am I selling to? Why will they be intrigued by my shop? Can I expand my audience?

, A tendency for new sellers is to think that you must have a large inventory built up before you begin selling in your shop. Instead of waiting around for weeks or even months until you think you have “enough” product, begin with just a few listings. Whether or not they sell immediately, you will at least have officially started your business which will encourage you to make more things.


Selling things while you are still in the process of designing and creating your product will also give you a chance to make alterations based on feedback you receive or patterns you notice.
As you begin to get the hang of running your own business, you can add more product to your shop. At the beginning though, focus more on finalizing designs and simply getting your business started.
 Nearly as important as your product itself is its packaging. If you sell something and have it mailed out with pretty wrapping or a clever logo, you will more likely please your buyer and make them more likely to purchase from you again. Depending on the product you are selling, come up with ideas for the best way to package your product.


Think about possible wrapping paper, bags, boxes, stickers, tape, and inserts that would make your product more interesting for the buyer to open in the mail.
Leave handwritten thank-you notes in all of your shipped packages addressed directly to your buyer. They will be charmed with your personal touch and be more likely to consider your shop in the future.

