 Eye contact establishes trust and makes you appear more reliable and friendly. The best photos will show you gazing straight ahead and giving your full attention to the camera and, by proxy, to the current profile reader.Sunglasses are a great look for many people, but they also make you appear closed-off and cold. Limit yourself to only one sunglasses shot in your profile.
A natural look is always nice with facial shots. But if you simply feel more comfortable and "you" in make-up, then by all means put some on. Just make sure to keep it light and as close to natural looking as possible.
 Polls show that 96% of people respond more positively to a big smile (showing teeth) than to a sexy closed-mouth smirk or pout. Smiling makes you more accessible and it conveys your happiness to others. It is not necessary to include only smiling photos as that may seem odd with action shots, but do try to trend toward the smiley., Your main profile image should be all about you. It will let your potential admirers know how to identify you immediately amongst your other photos. Use a shot that shows off your best physical attributes. The more of your face and body that is visible the better.


It is really tempting to use a selfie, but try to find a photo alternative. Selfies can seem a bit anti-social and the mirror ones often appear staged., Add a few photos of you doing something that you love. Do you love baseball or softball? Show a picture of you in the batting cage. Do you rock climb? Post a pic of you heading up to a peak. These shots will draw in people with similar interests to you.The action shot is a good opportunity to show your whole body as well, which is a near-to requirement for online profiles., Add one or two shots of you with a group of friends or family. Avoid the late-night bar pics and instead post something showcasing your extended social network. This shouldn’t be your first pic, but it is a good middle option.Consider blocking out your friends' faces if you know that they prefer to keep a low profile online. You can do this with free online photo editing tools.
 No one wants to look at a bunch of blurs. Post images that are clear with a good, distinct background. Bright colors and lighting are especially good. They are automatically associated with happiness and summery fun.When asked to compare the people in summertime versus winter pics the summery photo subjects were consistently judged to be more attractive and fun.Professional photos can be a good option as long as they are not awkward or too staged.However, avoid using a professional photo taken with a flash as it can add up to 7 years to your appearance.