 Include all relevant business content that you want readers to know.


Take a look at existing press releases to get a feel for the style and tone that is appropriate for this kind of outreach.
Write a clearly defined press release. Keep it short and concise, fitting in all of what you want to say without rambling.;
, Get on other websites and try to facilitate links pointing to the press release, so that you drive traffic toward what you are announcing.


Find industry-specific sites that interested readers often utilize. Looking at the websites of applicable trade groups, consumer resources or other Internet sites will help you find good places to link to a new press release.
 Building websites that have articles referencing your press release is another more substantial way to build web traffic into the equation.


Hire SEO writers to write optimized content that will promote a press release online. You can do the writing yourself, but many busy managers find that paying skilled, experienced SEO writers is much more effective.
 Build additional links to your press release through Facebook, Twitter or other new technologies that Internet users take advantage of to navigate the web in a social context. A good Facebook page for a business or product can make the linking process seem more organic and relevant to readers.
 Going viral with press release content is something that is still on the frontier of online marketing for many companies. The idea is to boost traffic by using a video, as well as a text, format.


Brainstorm relevant video clips. You may have to create these clips yourself or use existing marketing content.
Add a press release link to the YouTube video or as a visual element within the video.
 Monitor your website over time to see which of the above strategies paid off in terms of increased web traffic. Make sure that you keep new promotions popping up around your press release to keep it in the public eye and stay relevant in a quickly changing web environment.

