 Will you use it for camping? Will you carry it in your car? Will you leave it at home in case of a power failure? Do you need something particularly large or small? Do you need it portable? Will you carry the light or do you want it to be able to strap on or mount to a stand?
;
, Many flashlights are available for under $10 or $20, but these are often cheaply built, and will not last as long as one that costs more than $25. Most of the very popular high-end flashlights today are priced around $50.
 How far do you need to be able to see?

, The number of LED's is usually less important than the brightness, but it's often listed. Any flashlight that's worth the money, will feature only one LED. Most cheaper lights that have multiple LED's are not very bright, and often do not offer a strong, focused beam.
 Most LEDs are very reliable, so it's often the surrounding construction that will fail first, if it's not well constructed.
 The types of flashlights sold at most major retailers are very limited, and are usually geared toward standard disposable batteries. Rechargeable Nickel Metal Hydride (NiMH) batteries are a better choice. Most retailers sell these. For these types of batteries to work in an LED flashlight, the light must be a AA flashlight. A flashlight made for lithium batteries cannot use standard AA or NiMH batteries. The best lithium battery flashlights are usually only available at online retailers. Disposable lithium batteries are expensive, and don't last long in high-power flashlights. Rechargeable lithium batteries are much cheaper to operate. They are also only available through mail order.


Conventional alkaline batteries have a long shelf life but must be replaced. Alkaline batteries are also prone to leaking if left stored for long periods.
Lithium-ion batteries can be recharged with a lithium battery charger. Rechargeable lithium batteries have an extremely long shelf-life, and once charged, will hold their charge up to one year without much loss. Disposable lithium batteries, known as CR123's, can be stored up to TEN years with no possibility of leakage or degradation.
Even a rechargeable battery may someday need to be replaced. Most rechargeable batteries whether they are lithium or NiMH, can usually be charged up to 500 times before they'll no longer hold a charge.
 LED flashlights are available in a range of sizes and weights, ranging from tiny coin cell key chains to large, stand-mounted work lights.
 With them off, you can look at the consistency of the work that went into mounting them.
 Look for an even, round light, rather than an uneven distribution of light. LED flashlights generally do not have an adjustable focal length, so it's important to choose one that's right to begin with.
 Plastic is lightweight, cheap, and will not stand the test of time; aluminum is likely to be more durable. Most of the popular lights today use aircraft grade aluminum.
