 Scientologists consider their religion to be a practical philosophy or self-actualization method, more so than a religion in the strictest sense of the word. As a religion, Scientology is relatively new, extending from writer L. Ron Hubbard’s mid-century method of self-improvement via past-life exploration and auditing, called dianetics.


There is a spiritual mythology related to Scientology which can sound a little sci-fi to the uninitiated, but Scientology itself is about the practice more than the belief in the system. Scientologists do believe that the inner self is a "cosmic" being, something that lives beyond the body and which needs to be properly maintained when in your care.
Applying the principles of the Tone Scale and Dynamics to your life is thought to help eliminate the reliance of modern society on mood-altering substances and other primarily commercial methods of “self improvement.”;
, More than perhaps any other contemporary religion, Scientology is widely criticized and mocked in pop culture, for a variety of reasons. Scientology calls itself a religion, but it is often accused of being a cult, a pseudo-religion, or a pyramid scheme. If you're planning to join Scientology, it's crucial to learn about it from a variety of sources rather than relying on official statements from Scientology only.


According to Scientology, the organization does not make it impossible to "leave" the church, nor do they outlaw the use of certain medications. However, Scientology has been accused of behaving like a totalitarian system which disconnects its members from friends, colleagues, or family members deemed to be antagonistic towards Scientology.Furthermore, Scientology does strongly oppose the medical specialties of psychiatry and psychology., If you choose to explore Scientology, there's a lot you should expect to learn and study. Some of the vocabulary can be momentarily disorienting, so having some idea of what to expect when you're first exploring can help you negotiate the somewhat complicated waters of Scientology.Dianetics is the original method invented by Hubbard as a self-improvement method, regarding a mind-body connection. The goal of dianetics is to get your "reactive mind" out of the way, leading to a happier, more fulfilled state of being.

Thetans are believed to be immortal beings, insubstantial in nature, that rule your body. Scientologists believe Thetans create life and exist independent of our bodies beyond death. This is the Scientologist conception of the human soul, essentially. Practicing Scientology and finding practical benefit from it doesn't require that you "believe" in Thetans in the strictest sense of the word.
 It would be impossible to give an accurate primer on the wide body of thought that represents Scientology in a few hundred words. The church is known for the easy access to and volume of reading materials associated with it, so get in touch with the Church of Scientology, via their website and request literature. It’s generally free of cost.



Scientology: A Religious Philosophy by L. Ron Hubbard outlines the basic tenets of Scientology, though more easily digestible volumes are frequently produced by the church for more easy consumption.
In general, if you request materials, you’ll likely be inundated with more boxes than you know what to do with. This is a promotional tactic used by the church to spread the word. Be forewarned and expect lots of books.
 One of the most common ways to learn more about Scientology is to attend a regional conference in your area, where Scientologists gather for discussion and recruitment. These tend to meet in large cities, yearly, and are an excellent opportunity for interested persons. It's also a great place to pick up free or cheap Scientology literature so that you can learn more on your own.
 If you want to attend Scientology services and gatherings on a more regular basis, find a church in your area and make contact. Express your interest in joining the church. You can find a branch of the church of Scientology in your area by clicking here.


The actual process of joining the church will differ slightly depending on the particular branch of the church itself and the other Scientologists. Most cities won't have more than one branch, however, so it's difficult to do much exploring.
If you don't like the church in your town, consider just reading up and developing your own practice on your own. Again, it's a practical method, which means you'll do most of the work yourself.
 Scientologists are not a part of some mysterious celebrity cult or shadowy Illuminati, and meeting some for discussion and fellowship can answer a lot of your questions and assuage a lot of your concerns. Regular people from all walks of life practice Scientology. Meet and talk to them.


Church and regional conferences are obviously the best place to meet other practitioners, but you might also be able to find more informal discussion groups in your area. Consider starting one, like a book group, in your town.
 Auditing is completed by meeting with an experienced Scientologist who will guide you through the process, asking questions and reading your Thetan quality with an E-meter.It's a lot like Scientology "confession." Completing an audit is a lot like a cross between past life or regression therapy and a simple visit to the doctor. You'll basically sit, chat with a Scientologist, and answer some questions. That's it.


Church audits are done regularly, should you join a church. Field auditors and mission auditors are also dispatched frequently to travel, like an old-style Evangelical Revival, to get the word out and to show people what Scientology is all about. This can be an excellent way to experience your first audit and see if it's right for you.
 The Church of Scientology claims that the method works 100% of the time for people who commit fully to using it. In that "commit fully" though, is a lot of real work. Do you want to improve your life and reach a state of contentment and happiness? Are you willing to do what it takes? If you're interested in Scientology, approaching it with an open mind and a full commitment to change your life for the better is necessary.
 The Tone Scale is used in auditing to place your overall attitude and emotional state somewhere on a quantifiable scale, which runs from +40 (Serenity of Being) to -40 (Total Failure). Depending on your situation, your attitudes will fall in a variety of places on the tone scale at any given time.


It's fine to explore the tone scale by yourself, but it's also important to let an experienced auditor guide you through the process to more thoroughly integrate the concepts into your practice.
 Dynamics are an essential part of Scientology, referring to the eight classifications of survival, which Scientologists believe is an essential part of changing your life for the better. A person progresses through various dynamics over the course of a life, the first of which is your innate desire to survive. Babies have this desire, and animals, but we gradually progress through various mind-body stages of improvement over the course of a life dedicated to improvement.This is a life-long struggle. The Eight Dynamics are as follows:


Self
Creativity
Group Survival
Species
Life Forms
Physical Universe
Spiritual Dynamic
Infinity

, The life of a Scientologist involves receiving period audits, assessing your personal growth and the stages of your improvement, and realigning your practice in accordance to where you're going. Receiving periodic audits is an essential part of improving your life and your practice as a Scientologist, to get your mind-body alignment in harmony.

