 You will be hanging this on your tree, so the smaller the pinecone, the better. Look for something that is between 1 and 2 inches (2.54 and 5.08 centimeters) tall.


You can leave the pinecone bare for a rustic look, or you can spray paint it first.
Wash the pinecone to get rid of any dirt. Let it dry completely.
Consider using a scented pinecone from the store.
 How big the bead is depends on how big the pinecone is. It needs to be small enough to sit on top of the pinecone. It should also look proportionate to it.


Consider painting the bead a flesh tone that suits you.
 If you need to, break off the very tip of the pinecone so that the head can sit nicely on top of it. Make sure that the bead's hole it pointing up.


Don't worry about the elf's face just yet. You will be adding that later.
 This will eventually make the feet.The heart needs to be about the same width as the pinecone. You can make the feet any color you want. Red and green are the most popular colors, but pastel colors lend this project a rustic charm.
 Cover the bottom half of the heart with hot glue. Position the pinecone over the heart, making sure that the top part is sticking out—like feet. Press the pinecone into the glue, and let the glue set.
 The triangle needs to be wide enough to wrap around the bead you are using for the head, plus extra for a seam. This will make the hat, so you can use any color you want. It can match the feet, or it can be a contrasting color.
 Fold the triangle in half lengthwise so that slanted edges touch. Stitch them together using a blanket stitch and thread in a contrasting color. Don't turn the hat inside out. The stitching is part of the design.If you can't sew, use hot glue instead.
 Draw a ring of hot glue inside the rim of the hat. Quickly push the hat down onto the elf's head. You can position it right on top of the head, or you can angle it back slightly.


For a final touch, consider gluing a small pompom or jingle bell to the tip of the hat.
 Use two small black dots for the eyes, and a red dot for the mouth. You can use the face using acrylic paint and a thin paintbrush or a permanent marker., If you'd like, you can cut a small fringe to each end of the scarf. You can make the scarf any color you want, but your elf might look better if the scarf matches the hat or feet.
 Tie the scarf in place so that it doesn't fall off. For a more fashionable touch, position the knotted part of the scarf off to the side rather than under the elf's "chin."

, Start with a heart, then cut one side smaller/shorter than the other. Cut the bottom/pointed part of the heart into a straight edge. You can match the color to the scarf, hat, or feet., Place them more towards the front, and at slight angles. Point the rounded part of the mittens towards the feet, and straight part towards the scarf.
 Cut a short piece of thin ribbon and thread it onto a tapestry needle. Thread the needle through the top of the hat. Remove the needle, and tie the ends of the ribbon into a loop.


The thinner the ribbon, the better. About 1/16 and 1/8-inch (0.8 and 3.2-millimeters) wide would be ideal.
For best results, match the ribbon color to the elf's hat, scarf, mittens, or feet.

