 Head halters are made to be used on dogs that pull too much when being walked. If the dog pulls, its head is pulled down and to the side by the halter, making the dog's forward movement more difficult. With proper use it can be an effective tool for stopping pulling behavior.If your dog's central behavior problem when walking is pulling, then the head halter may work great for correcting that behavior. If your dog is generally out of control, then it may need some general training before the head halter should be used.;
, In addition to limiting excessive and aggressive pulling, a halter can help people with limited mobility to walk even a well behaved dog. Even if a dog only pulls a little bit or once in awhile, it can be difficult for a person with limited mobility to handle. If a halter is put on their dog, however, it can eliminate occasional pulling that can knock them off their balance.This can help elderly people to walk their dogs, in addition to anyone who is generally unstable while walking their dog.
 While the halter is not a muzzle, and cannot totally stop a dog from biting, it can be used to control head movement. This means that the halter can be used to move your dog's head away from someone that it is attempting to nip or bite.


When using a halter like this you need to be careful not to wrench on the dog's neck, as this could cause injury. Instead, pull gently and do not pull so far that your dog's neck is over rotated.
 Discuss whether a head halter would be good to use on your dog. Your veterinarian may have reservations about its use depending on your dog's behavior or health, or the veterinarian may be enthusiastic about it given the potential benefits to your dog's behavior.Not all veterinarians will have a thorough understanding of the pros and cons of using a head halter. Ask "Do you think a head halter might be good for my dog?" or "Do you have any opinions about using a head halter?" If he or she is willing, allow them to do a little research and to get back to you about what they find out.
 Deciding to use a head halter can have a big impact on your dog's behavior and training level. If your dog is actively being trained by a professional, you should discuss this new equipment with them before using it with your dog.


Your trainer will probably have great instructions and tips for how to use the halter effectively and properly, as well as how it can be incorporated into the dog's training regime.Ask your trainer "Do you have any tips or suggestions for me about using a head halter?"

, If you decide to use a head halter you may have quite a few to choose from. Feel free to discuss your options with the pet store employees at your local pet store to see which one they would choose and why. Perhaps there is one brand that is most popular and holds up well, and a pet store employee may be able to steer you towards that one.


Ask a store employee "Have you ever used a head halter on a dog?" If they say yes, ask "How did it work for you?"
A pet store employee may also be able to help you pick the right size of halter, as well as helping to fit it correctly on your dog.
 After you purchase a head halter, which are available at most pet stores and online, you should read the directions on it. These instructions should outline how to use the halter and how to put it on and fit it correctly.


If your head halter doesn't come with directions and you are unsure how to put it on your dog, ask a pet store employee for help or take it with you when you take your dog to its veterinarian next time and ask them for help.
 The first thing to do is to open up the clip that holds the halter together. This will be closed again once the halter is on the dog. Then place the solid loop of the halter over the dog's nose. Once that is one, take the straps that have the clip ends and pull them around the dog's neck, right behind the ears.Adjust the tightness carefully. You want the halter to be tight enough to control your dog's movement but not so tight that it injures or makes your dog uncomfortable.
A good rule of thumb is to make sure that you can easily put a few fingers under the halter at the back of the dog's neck and that the dog can easily open and close its mouth. There are adjustment straps that can be moved to make the right fit possible.
 The leash should be attached to the front of the head harness, at the front of the neck under the chin. There should be a ring in this area of the halter for the leash to attach to.Attaching the leash in the correct spot will assure that the halter operates correctly.
 It will need time to adjust to its new situation and to its inability to pull any longer.


Begin by using the head halter for short walks. This will get the dog used to the new feeling. You can even use positive reinforcement techniques, such as giving treats, with the dog to reward good behavior with the harness.
 This danger is increased if you use the halter with a retractable leash.


A retractable leash will allow your dog to get moving rather quickly and then it will be stopped by the end of the line. With a halter, this will aggressively pull the dog's head around and could injure its neck.
 While it is reasonable to give a gentle and slow pull on the leash, any abrupt movement will not allow the dog to protect its neck and head.


The neck halter is best when used for keeping a dog at your side and giving it gentle corrections as you walk.
 Make sure the dog's snout and neck are not rubbed raw after use.


These should not occur if adjusted correctly, so readjust the halter is you notice any problems.
 A halter should only be on your dog when you are getting ready to walk it or it is actively walking. Otherwise, it should be removed for your dog's safety and comfort.While a dog can eat, drink, bark, lick, or bite while wearing the head halter, it shouldn't be worn when not supervised.

