 If you are on-the-road, you can always call your insurance provider to ask about the details of your coverage. Typically, insurance companies will have a 24-hour hotline for these kinds of questions. If you are unsure about the number, find an internet café and look up their number online.Give them a ring and ask:


“Is my current condition covered by out-of-network coverage?”
“If I get in an accident on this trip, would my plan cover it?”;
, Read your plan or get in touch with your insurance company before your trip to find out about out-of-network coverage. You may be able to find pertinent details by reading your plan. If you cannot locate these details, you should inquire about the extent of out-of-network medical coverage and travel insurance already included in your health care plan. It is essential that you understand any out of network benefits. Consider asking:


"Will I be covered out-of-network?"
“Is travel medical insurance included in my plan?”
“What kinds of things would my plan cover in foreign countries?”
“Would medical evacuation be covered by my plan?”
“Is there an option to purchase supplementary travel medical insurance?”

, If you have some travel medical insurance included in your current insurance plan, there may still be gaps for coverage of pre-existing medical conditions or risky activities.Read your plan carefully to identify any gaps. If you are not sure, ask your insurance provider key questions to find out the gaps in your plan:


“What are the major things that are not currently covered by my plan?”
“Does my plan cover medical evacuation after accidents from risky activities like rock climbing or skydiving?”
“Will my plan cover treatment for pre-existing medical conditions while travelling?”
“If you could identify a gap in my plan when it comes to travel, what would it be?”

, Contact your insurance company to find out how you can get reimbursed for medical expenses incurred abroad. Depending on the type of coverage you own, you may have to pay out of pocket and get reimbursed when you get home. Ask your insurance company how you will be paying for out-of-network coverage:“How does the out-of-network coverage work?”
“How can I get reimbursed for medical fees incurred on my trip?”
“Can you pay the service provider directly?”

, If your travel medical insurance plan requires you to pay for services and get reimbursed upon return from your trip, you should find out what documentation you will need. You may need to keep an envelope for all of your hospital records, prescriptions and receipts from medical providers.Keep the documents in a safe place so you can provide your insurance company with appropriate documentation upon return.You might consider photocopying or scanning the receipts when you get them. Once scanned, you can email them to your provider or to yourself so that they are safe., Find out if your most recent medical expense is covered or not. Most of the insurance companies take phone calls 24 hours a day.If you are travelling and want to remind yourself about what is included in your plan, you can always give your insurer a ring.
Most travel insurance plans do not cover pre-existing medical conditions. If you have asthma or another chronic health condition, you might want to bring supplies with you., If a friend or family member has your health coverage information, you may need to call them when you are travelling. Give them a ring to find out whether your recent medical expense is covered or not. You will need to give your friend or family member a photocopy of your health insurance policy prior to going on your trip, so that they can help you check the details of your coverage while you are on the road. Further, you may want to authorize them with your insurance company so that they can phone and check your insurance coverage on your behalf.


By giving a friend or family member of a photocopy of your insurance plan, you will still be able to check your coverage if you lose your laptop or paper copy of your plan while travelling.
By authorizing a close friend or family member with your insurance company, they can phone and find out the extent of your coverage for you. You may be able to save on long distance phone charges.
 Go to your insurance company website. Then, log in with your username and password and look up the extent of your insurance coverage.
 When traveling internationally, remember the limits of your current insurance plan. Most plans will not cover pre-existing medical conditions or routine visits to a doctor for a physical exam. If you are travelling for an extended period and want a doctor to give you a general checkup, for instance, this may not be covered., You may want to purchase a general travel insurance plan, which typically covers medical expenses alongside trip interruption, emergency evacuation and lost or stolen luggage. The great thing about travel insurance is that it can cover you for a range of unforeseen travel expenses. Depending on your pre-existing insurance coverage, you may also want to look at medical-only plans or consider plans that focus on medical coverage but also cover some other travel risks.If you have some coverage from a credit card, you may still want to purchase additional insurance. Most credit card insurance plans are not very good for travel., Determine the type of travel medical plan that would be most appropriate for your travel plans. Travel medical insurance is appropriate if you do not have medical covered under your existing insurance or under a general travel insurance plan. If you need the insurance for a single trip, you will be looking at a single trip travel medical plan. However, if you travel more frequently, you may need either multi-trip or long-term travel medical insurance:The most common type of coverage is for single trips. It covers the length of a single vacation and often has a time limit such as six months.
If you travel multiple times in a year, you might want to consider multi-trip medical insurance.
If you are always on the road, you might want to invest in a long-term major medical insurance plan.
 Before purchasing a plan, you should find out the details of what it covers. You should also inquire about what is not covered by the plan. Get in touch with the insurance company and inquire:“Does the plan cover unexpected costs from emergency care?”
“Does the plan cover unforeseen dental costs from accidents?”
“Will the plan advance payment to a service provider?”
“Will the plan cover transportation in the event of an emergency?”
“Does the plan cover medical evacuation?”
“Does the plan include benefits if I am seriously injured or die on the road?”
“Does the plan cover other travel costs such as trip interruption or lost luggage?”

, Consider the cost of travel insurance or travel medical insurance plans. Read reviews of major providers on travel websites and magazines to identify popular budget or high end options that meet your needs. Depending on your age, health and risk tolerance, you may want to consider more or less expensive options:Budget travel insurance typically costs around 4% of your trip costs.
A high end travel insurance plan may cost as much as 12% of your trip costs.
If your trip is very low risk, cheap and does not involve travel to a foreign country, you may be able to tolerate the risk of travelling without insurance., Based on the type of coverage you need, your risk tolerance and budget, purchase a travel medical insurance plan. Make sure you get your plan before you leave the country., Prior to leaving on your trip, you should leave a photocopy of your insurance plan information and coverage details with a close friend or family member. If you lose this information on the road, you can always phone them and ask for the relevant details.