 Before you design your letterhead in Word, it's a good idea to sketch it out so you now how everything will fit together. Draw the layout of your letterhead stationary design on a piece of plain white paper.


Make sure to include a spot for your company's logo, name, address and any other contact information.
You may also want to include the tag line for your company, if you have one. Tag lines are recommended for company names that do not indicate the company's main product or service.;
, Microsoft Word has all the tools you'll need to make a great template. You'll find it easy to recreate your sketched design.
 Name it "letterhead template 1" or something else that will enable you to locate it easily, and save it to your templates folder. You'll be able to pull up the document and print your letterhead whenever you have call to use it.
 If you're working with Word 2007, click "Insert" and "Header." Create a blank header that will serve as the canvas for your letterhead.If you're working with Word 2003, you should be able to view the header by clicking the arrow below the Header command on the Insert tab. Click "Edit header" at the bottom of the dropdown list.
 Type the company's name, address, phone number, fax number, website and general inquiry email address in the text box.


Make a hard return by pressing the Enter key after each section to make the elements of your letterhead stack.
You can leave out the website address if it is incorporated into your logo.
Adjust the fonts, colors and sizes of the text for each element. Your company name should be ​ approximately 2 points larger than the address and may be in a different font and color to coordinate with the logo for the letterhead. The phone, fax and email address entries should be 2 points smaller than the address, but keep the same font.
 Click "Picture" on the insert tab. Browse to the digital copy of your logo, select the .jpg, .bmp or .png file and click the Insert button.
 It should be clearly visible and in balance with the text of your letterhead.


Hover you cursor over one corner of the logo. Your pointer will change to a Diagonal Resize cursor. Click and drag the corner of the image to make it smaller or larger.
Your logo should be sized to balance the text of your contact information in the upper left corner of the header.
Reposition your logo by clicking the logo to select the image and then clicking and dragging it into place.
 For example, you could separate your company information from the rest of the page by inserting a solid line from the left margin to the right across the bottom of the header.


Click the Shapes dropdown arrow in the Insert tab and choose the first line option in the Lines section. Click and drag to draw the line.
Right-click on the line and adjust the color and weight of the line to coordinate with your logo using the Format Autoshapes option. Select the Center radio button on the Layout tab.
Right-click on the line again and create a copy of it. Paste the copy anywhere into the document.
 If you'd like, you can balance the header by including information - your tag line, phone number, or logo - in the footer.


Click the dropdown box under the Footer option in the Insert tab.
Click the centered text option in the paragraph section of the Home tab.
Type the tagline. Adjust the font and size. Taglines are often in italic type and may be in title case, where the first letter of every major word is capitalized.
 Press the Esc key to close the Header and Footer sections. View your letterhead stationary in full scree​n mode or print a copy for review.
 When creating a new document on this letterhead, open the letterhead file and click "Save as" under the Office Windows logo button.

