 Here are some things to look for.









Look at the color. Is the betta's color bright and vivid, or is it very dull? Even if the betta's color is a little pale, it should shine nicely. Bettas come in a variety of colors, but blues and reds (dark colors in general) are most common, although sometimes they can be white with a pink or blue tint.
Does the betta respond to your movement at all? Does it swim around rapidly when seeing you, or does it merely sit at the bottom and sulk? Don't repeatedly tap the container, as doing so agitates the fish. Instead, try moving your finger back and forth in front of the Betta without aggravating it. Don't be afraid to buy a somewhat docile betta though; they generally have many encounters with other people during their day, and may simply be resting. The average betta bought in a pet store has been bred to withstand a lot of the hassles of a pet's lifestyle.
Are its fins in good condition, or are they torn or otherwise damaged? Keep in mind that some breeds have intricate fins, so they might look slightly torn. Are the betta's eyes in good shape? Do you see any odd lumps (parasites) on its body? If you see anything highly out of the ordinary, consider another betta. (it would also be helpful to talk to a store employee)
Sometimes, the fish will choose you, not the other way around. If there is one betta that you look at, set down, move on from it, but are drawn back to it repeatedly, consider buying it. Even if it is not completely healthy, buy the fish you feel connected to, rather than the healthiest one there. He will likely heal up once out of the tiny cup and gets a fresh start in warm, clean water.;
, Know that these fish can live up to 10 years under the proper care, so do your research before buying. The minimum size tank for a betta fish is 2.5 gallons with a heater and filter. Please do not keep a betta fish in a bowl; it is terrible for their health and is very small! Your betta fish will not be happy or live as long., There is a lot to know about betta fish, even beyond the basics just outlined. In general, large box stores aren't in the business of providing detailed information, unless you happen to strike a betta enthusiast salesperson. As well as having the basic understanding of betta outlined above, you might consider researching more details about betta fish online at sites like bettafish.com, bettatalk.com, ibcbettas.org, etc. These sites will remain useful for you after purchase too, as you'll be able to ask questions, check up health and nutrition notes and find like-minded betta fans to share stories with.
 Have a proper set up ready before bringing home your new pet. This prevents possible mishaps.









Don't place a male Betta fish with another male, but females do fine together only if they have a docile personality and if you have five or more female bettas in an optimum tank size of 15-20 gallons, though 10 gallons will suffice (as long as an efficient amount of hiding spaces have been provided). This is called a betta sorority and is very hard to set up sometimes. If you only want two bettas, don't put them together just to be safe. If you want another fish with your Betta, choose a fish that doesn't have long fins (do not get a guppy) and is roughly about the same size as the betta. Bigger fish will eat the betta, and the betta might eat any fish smaller than its mouth. A few good suggestions for tank mates are Red Cherry Shrimp and White Cloud Mountain Minnows.
 In the wild, bettas inhabit Thai rice paddies. Hence, they are suited to living in relatively shallow, but spacious environments. To meet the spacious need, consider giving your betta a decently sized tank to help prolong its life. Pick a tank of 5 gallons (19 liters) or more for your betta to thrive. It may seem like a lot, but it's what your fish deserves.
 Various equipment is required for the successful keeping of Betta fish:









Purchase a heater with a thermostat––Betta fish like water temperatures between 78-82ºF/24-27ºC. Bettas need a heater in all cases (they are tropical fish)––for example, if you live in a cold country or if you have an aquarium below room temperature, then a heater is required. Mini-heaters are available for betta tanks between 1-3 gallons (4-11 liters). During the winter, you may want to add a mini heater or place your aquarium close to a radiator (1 meter/3.2 feet away), to prevent your Betta from becoming too cold.
Filters are always necessary but make sure the current is not too strong for your betta. Bear in mind that the long-finned varieties do best with as little current as possible. Some experts recommend the use of sponge filters, to protect the fins.
Avoid jagged rocks or decorations. Such decorations can easily tear betta fins. It's recommended that you check once a day that there are no tears in the betta's fins. If there are tears, first check the water quality, as tears are typically caused by poor water maintenance.
Avoid adding any hard plastic plants. Again, these can be rough on the fins. Use the 'pantyhose test': If a plastic plant will snag a pair of pantyhose when rubbed against it, then it will damage your betta's fins. Be safe and buy silk plants instead.
Live plants are a great idea. They're prettier than fake ones, and betta fish love lounging on the leaves and hiding in them to sleep. Live plants also help to oxygenate the water and keep the water cleaner for longer periods of time by absorbing ammonia which can be fatal to your fish.
 Betta fish tend to prefer being alone and may kill other fish and even snails if added to the tank. Some betta fish are fine with tank-mates such as snails, ghost or cherry shrimp and catfish, and consider that as long as the fish sharing the tank is not bigger, more colorful or fin nipping, it should be okay. Before adding any sort of tank-mate, do thorough research by asking questions of the retailer, reading in books about betta fish or checking online sites dedicated to betta fish. The article Buy Fish for an Aggressive Freshwater Aquarium can assist with choosing a tank-mate for your betta. If in doubt, leave the tank-mate out.









Male betta fish cannot live with other male betta fish. They are named Siamese fighting fish for a reason! In an aquarium setting, they will fight to the death in order to protect their living space, regardless of the size of the tank. If your tank does not have a partition, do not risk losing one or both of your betta fish by allowing them to live together.
Keep female betta fish either singly or in groups of at least five, to lessen any aggression. The tank must be at least 10 gallons (38 liters) and have several hiding spots if keeping multiple females. All females must be added at the same time. Don't place only two female betta fish in your tank. They establish a "pecking order" and having only two female fish means that the less dominant one gets picked on exclusively.
Female betta fish will fight males and vice versa. Don't put them in together. Read up on breeding them if you think you want to try it, but remember that breeding bettas is a huge commitment, and not something to be taken lightly.
Putting a mirror up to the side of the tank can cause a betta to flare because he/she thinks that there is a rival in his/her territory. This can stress out the fish, so avoid mirrors.
 Use a water conditioner such as Prime before putting fresh tap water in the tank. The chlorine and chloramines in standard tap water can harm bettas, as well as kill off all that beneficial bacteria housed in the filter. Older sources may suggest aging the water (standing it for a time) but it's best to use a water conditioner, as aged water removes chlorine but not chloramine and heavy metals. Use a master freshwater test kit to ensure that your tank is completely cycled before adding your betta!









It is a not a good idea to use bottled water because this deprives your betta of necessary minerals and is not fish 'safe'. Treated tap water is both a cheaper and better alternative.
 If the tank is without a top cover, fill it about 80% high to ensure your fish won't leap out. Bettas are very active and can jump over 3 inches/7.5cm when motivated! However, bettas usually won't be trying to escape if they're happy in their home.
 First, slowly and carefully add some of your tank water to the container in which you received your betta. Allowing the new water and old water to mix will make the water easier for your fish to adjust to––if the habitat water is much colder or warmer than the previous water, mixing waters will help allay any shock for the fish. Next, tip the cup into your new aquarium, but try to add as little water as possible from the container to the new home, since sometimes water from the pet store can carry diseases and other things that you don't want in your new tank. Be gentle as you tip in the betta!









Avoid netting a betta if possible, as this can damage the delicate fins. If you need to pick up a betta, try to use a small cup to scoop him/her up with care.
 Bettas are carnivores. Your betta's diet should consist of pellets specifically made for feeding betta, as well as a variety of other carnivorous foods. Frozen brine shrimp or blood worms are good options.









Check the ingredients of betta specific pellets and flakes. The first three should be protein based. Experts say that protein in the pellets should be no less than 40%.
 Betta fish vary in eating habits from each other, so experiment to see how much food your Betta eats. Set up routine feeding times, for example, once in the morning and once at night. If you stick to this routine, you may even find that your betta will be waiting for you when it's time to eat!









Take care not to overfeed the fish. A betta's stomach is only about the size of their eye. Overfeeding can be a problem in some betta fish, as some fish will eat as long as you feed them (which can be fatal). A good feeding schedule is 3 pellets in the morning, and 3 at night. Soaking the pellets in water for a few minutes before feeding is recommended since the pellets will otherwise expand inside your betta's stomach, which can cause unhealthy bloating and digestive blockage. Overfeeding can cause bloating and bladder problems which can be fatal, although this is not as serious as a similar condition referred to as dropsy.
 Similarly, watch your betta to see if he/she spits up any food. This could be a sign that your betta is a picky eater, or it could also mean that the pellets are too big for the betta's mouth. Ironically, most big fish food companies don't realize that Betta fish have smaller mouths than, say, goldfish or others.









You can cut the pellets in half with a small razor blade or such to allow it to fit in the betta's mouth easier. If it still refuses to eat, try another brand of pellets or dried food.
 Put a straw in the tank and watch your betta to see if he/she gets used to it. If he/she does, and you have leftover betta food he/she won't eat, place one of the leftover pellets in the tank. Place the straw over it so that it is inside the straw. Hold the straw over the fish and wait for him/her to find it. After your betta finds it, he/she will follow it. You can then slowly lift the straw up to the top of the tank until the food pops out and your betta will eat it.
 Betta's thrive best in an already cycled tank with a filter, unless you are doing extremely frequent large water changes (but this can be stressful for the betta). Slow flow or sponge filters are recommended due to the betta's fragile fins. Vacuum the bottom of the filtered tank gently when doing routine small water changes. There are many symptoms of dirty water, such as, fin rot. Not to worry, the problem is easily treatable.









Be sure to add a dechlorinator (also known as a water conditioner) to the water; this will remove any harmful chlorine/chloramine that is in tap water that may kill your fish. It will also filter bacteria.
Be sure that the water you are changing is the same temperature as the old water the betta was in, to avoid temperature shock; such shock can be deadly to your betta. Use an in-tank thermometer to check the water temperatures.
 In order to test water parameters each week, you will need a master freshwater test kit. This will allow you to monitor your aquarium and take readings. Follow the instructions for testing provided by the manufacturer.









Place notes in your calendar or diary to remind yourself that it's time to test the water.
 Betta fish come to recognize their owners. They will actually learn faces and even simple games. Keep your betta company and say "hi" once in a while, so he learns who you are!









Betta fish are very curious and often develop a strong bond with their caretaker.
 Betta fish are enjoyable to watch and spend time with. You can play with your fish by moving your finger back and forth along the tank edge (never bang the tank or poke the water). Watch your betta follow you. And above all, don't forget to name your fish!









Never tap the glass of the tank. This action easily agitates the fish and can cause the fish to go into shock and die. To interact through movement, simply slowly rest your finger on the glass and slide it along to see if your betta will follow it. If he/she backs away and seems frightened, then stop immediately. You can eventually try again once you the betta is more accustomed and less afraid of you. Never put a mirror in front of the fish, as while they may change color and show off, it stresses them out.

