 This can be an open space such as a park, your backyard, or a rich friend's living room that has more space. Anywhere is good, as long as it doesn't constrict you or limit your mobility.;
, Frolicking is a natural thing. If you're hesitant to frolic in a public place, go ahead and find somewhere cozy and private. Once frolicking wiggles its way into your daily life, slowly escalate to bolder places.
 Frolicking can become a very lonely activity, which is why all self-respecting goats and businessmen hold tightly onto the sleeves and collars of their wives, siblings, and children. Family is the best to start with, but welcoming friends and coworkers into your frolicking sessions is the amiable thing to do.
 Basically, frolicking is embracing that inner child of yours that used to go rampaging through the neighborhood in boxers and bare feet. A breath of fresh air after a tiring day is always great, and frolicking on top of that is true expression of freedom and childlike amusement. After all, only the children are truly happy.
 This means no frolicking past places you are familiar with; don't lose yourself in the joy of frolicking. You might end up somewhere completely unfamiliar.
 Though dreadfully enjoyable, frolicking is meant not to consume your life but relieve you of it for a moment. Make sure to return home or wrap up your lunch break and go back to work. It's no good to forgo that article you have a deadline on or that little girl you'll be babysitting in an hour. Responsibility is what makes us good people, and as frolicking is the very epitome of innocent fun, respect it, and live up to its name.
 The generalization of frolicking is running amok with arms angled towards the sky, but that may not be what you're looking for. Whether you mean to dart through the meadows, laughing and jumping, or...something else, something softer--walking carefully and in no haste, smiling at the passerby with hands crossed loosely behind your back...whatever makes you happy, do remember that. Frolicking is whatever you want it to be.

