 Though, most of the Schengen state countries have the same list of required documents, there may be a few slight differences when applying to different countries. In case you lack certain documents requested, consider applying to another country that does not list them as compulsory. A standard list for a short-term tourist visa (up to 90 days stay in Schengen Area):


Visa application form, filled either in English or the official language of the country you are applying to;
One recent photo made according to the specifications of the website;
International passport, valid more than three months from the date of return;
Travel medical insurance covering all Member States of the Schengen Area.;
, Employees are required to submit a certificate issued by their employers on the original company’s blank stating the registration number, contact address and the position of the person who signs the document containing the following information:


Date of employment
Position at the company, or
Salary for the ultimate six months
Duration of absence in the company
Students should provide a certificate issued by the university or school stating the applicant’s details, study level and the planned period of absence.
 Proof of personal finance means to fund your travel: It could be one of the following documents:


Bank statement (at least three ultimate months of bank transactions); or
Travel cheques; or
Copy of the credit card (only side with the holder details) along with the ATM receipt showing your current balance in the account;
The total amount of money should be 60 euro minimum for each day of your stay.
 This includes hotel reservations and flight reservations or or any other mode of transportation.
 Check out the latest statistics for visa refusal rates usually available at the Embassies' websites or your local Minister of Foreign Affairs official website. A quick Google search will also reveal which country issues the most visas for your nationality. Chances that you will receive a longer stay visa that you've originally requested a rather high.
 Get started with requesting a short term visa from one of the friendly embassies, then get the next one, most probably it would be longer one. Apply to the same country Embassy a few times and you’re likely to get the max visa 180/360 days. In case you already have visas from UK/USA/CA previously issued – your chances of receiving Schengen visa triple.
 In case you are working freelance or take project-oriented jobs, getting a required letter from the employer could be tough. As a private entrepreneur you'll need to submit only two papers:


Company registration
Recent tax statement (some countries does not require it!)

, In case you have an opportunity to travel to another country where Schenghen visa approval rates are higher, your chances for receiving a longer stay visa rise significantly. No one prohibits you from getting a visa in another country and there’s no need to be a citizen or resident. For example, it is known that France issues longer visas valid for 1-5 years (though, you are still not allowed to stay longer than 90 days in half a year, but your visa is valid for 1 to 5 years. No need to make visa runs each other month) for Moscow and St. Petersburg applicants.
 It could be something like providing documents on owning a car or an apartment, extra amount of money on your bank account.

