 All you need to remember are your flashlight, vent lights, music box and mask.;
, Use the mask whenever it is necessary; this is only when there is an animatronic in your vent, or when there is an animatronic directly in front of you. As a rule of thumb, try to put your mask on immediately when you bring your camera down. On later nights, the time you have to put your mask on after taking your camera down becomes very short.


Don't waste time putting your mask on if they're near you - they will not go away any quicker, so you are simply sitting there not flashing Foxy, not checking your vents, and not winding your music box.
Only Foxy can be disabled with the flashlight; the older animatronics require you putting on the mask as quickly as you can when they're in front of you. Failing to put your mask on quickly will make the older animatronics pop up to you, even if you are wearing the Freddy mask. Remember to put it on right away whenever you bring your camera down on later nights, without taking the time to check if an animatronic is present.
 On later nights, Foxy will be in the hall almost constantly.
 If you fail to keep winding up the music box, the Puppet will rise from her present box and kill you. Wind it all up, but don't check any other cameras! On later nights you may need to wind it partway then quickly deal with something else. If the Puppet gets out of the box, don't give up if you haven't died yet. If you wind the box quickly enough, the Puppet will stay in their room as long as the music keeps playing.
 The only camera necessary to your survival is the prize corner. Because it takes such a short time for animatronics to get on the move, keeping track of them is essentially pointless since you can only react to them when they're in your vents, face or, with Foxy, the hall.
 Although he does not jumpscare, he will disable your flashlight and vent lights as soon as he gets into your office, which will most likely result in death by Foxy unless you're very near the end of the night. Put on your mask if you see him in the vents.


If he gets in without you knowing it, the mask will not work on him, as he will stay inside your office until 6 AM arrives, or, most likely, you are killed.
 If you hear this while you're winding the music box, put it down and put your mask on, unless you can see her on the camera. If you have your mask on, and you stop hearing her, than she's no longer in your vent.
, It's important to stay focused while playing - panicking will quickly result in a loss.
 If there's a toy in either vent, put your mask on, and wait for them to go away. Once you can, wind your music box, and once its wound pull down your camera and whip on your mask. Don't wait at all to take your mask off - the game will stop you from doing so if an animatronic is attacking you - and quickly repeat. This system, once you learn to do it quickly, will carry you all the way through the game if executed properly.
 Some animatronics have different jumpscares. Foxy jumps at you if you don't flash the flash light at him enough or if Balloon Boy disables your flashlight. Mangle swings from the ceiling to bite you. Bonnie reaches out for you. Chica, Freddy and Toy Freddy pop up. Toy Chica, Toy Bonnie, and The Puppet jump at you. Balloon Boy does not have a jumpscare. Thank you, Scott.

