 This is because sugars are often unneeded calories that are converted to triglycerides (a form of fat) for storage in the body.


Limit your added sugars to less than 5 to 10 percent of your calories. For women, this means that sugars can take up to 100 calories per day. For men, this means that sugars can take up to 150 calories per day.
Avoid things like sweet desserts and concentrated fruit juices.;
, White rice and baked goods made with white flour or semolina can cause elevated triglycerides in some individuals. If your doctor suspects that it might be an issue for you, reducing your refined carbohydrates can have a quick impact on your triglycerides.


Instead of eating refined carbohydrates, choose breads and pastas that are made from whole grains.
Diminish your overall intake of carbohydrates, and consume more protein in your diet instead. Proteins have a lower "glycemic index" than carbohydrates, meaning that they are absorbed more slowly into the bloodstream. This, in turn, is helpful to lower blood sugars as well as to lower blood "lipid" levels (including triglycerides). Healthy fats are also a great dietary addition as these help to stabilize blood sugar and can in turn help to lower triglycerides.
 Alcohol can increase triglycerides, especially in those who are more sensitive to it. It is strongly recommended that you eliminate alcohol from your diet while you are trying to lower your triglycerides.


After your triglycerides have returned to an acceptable level, you may gradually re-introduce alcohol back into your diet. However, avoid drinking too much or too often, since having too much may cause your levels to jump back up again.



Eat roughly two servings of fatty fish per week. If you do so consistently, you may see a change in your triglyceride levels.
Fatty fish rich in omega-3s include salmon, mackerel, sardines, tuna, and trout.
Other sources of omega-3s include ground flax seed, flaxseed oil, soy, legumes, walnuts, and dark, leafy green vegetables. Mix these additional sources into your diet on a daily basis.
A good-quality omega 3 supplement can be extremely beneficial as these help with overall omega-3/omega-6 ratio.
 Particularly if you select the protein in your diet from plant-based sources (rather than from red meat), you may find that your cholesterol and triglyceride levels can be lowered significantly.


Dried beans, peas, and soy are all plant-based products that are rich in protein.
You can also consume chicken as a replacement for red meat, as this is a better alternative to moderate your triglyceride levels.
 Fiber helps regulate the way that food is absorbed and passed through your body, and high-fiber foods can significantly lower both your triglycerides and cholesterol.


Fiber combines with water in your intestine to form a gel-like matrix to which fats attach; this diminishes the percentage of fats (including triglycerides) that are absorbed into your body. An added bonus is that fiber maintains the health of your digestive tract in other ways too.
To get more fiber in your diet, increase the amount of whole grains you eat. You should also eat more beans, fruits, and vegetables.
Fiber also makes you feel full, which can prevent you from over-eating.
Drink more water when you increase your fiber. Otherwise, you may experience moderate to severe intestinal upset.
 Saturated fats and trans fats can be especially harmful, and cutting as many as possible from your diet can greatly affect your triglycerides in a positive way.


Packaged foods and fast foods are big culprits responsible for these "bad" fats. Animal products and anything made with hydrogenated vegetable oil may also be a problem, as well as shortening, lard, or margarine.
Opt for mono- and poly-unsaturated fats, instead. Your body needs to take some fat in, but these sources are considered healthier and will not impact triglycerides as much. They include olive oil, canola oil, rice bran, walnut oil, and flaxseed oil.
 Limiting fructose levels to less than 50 to 100 grams (1.8 to 3.5 oz) per day can help you lower your triglycerides faster.


Fruits lower in fructose include apricots, citrus fruits, cantaloupe, strawberries, avocados, and tomatoes; if you are going to consume fruit, these are the preferable ones to choose.
Fruits higher in fructose include mangoes, bananas, plantains, grapes, pears, apples, watermelon, pineapples, and blackberries; these are fruits to avoid, or at least limit in your diet.

