 Making sure you are experiencing anthropophobia, and not a similar condition, is key to finding a treatment that will work well. It is normal to experience time when you don't feel like being around other people. If you find that your feeling is more fearful or that it is affecting your work, school, or social life, it is cause for concern. Start by researching and reading about anxiety disorders and phobias to see where you feel your symptoms are.


Notice the differences between social phobias or social anxiety and anthropophobia.
Differentiate between other phobias, such as agoraphobia, and anthropophobia.
Read about the differences between obsessive thoughts and a phobia., Studies about anxiety disorders are ongoing. You can participate in new types of treatment, including different therapies and new medications. While you'll receive the benefits of treatment, you will also be helping doctors gain information and better understanding about your condition., An important part of getting rid of anthropophobia is identifying your experience with it. Anthropophobia is an extreme or unusual fear of people or human companionship.It is considered a phobia, or an extreme dislike or fear of a particular thing or situation.Think about your experience and determine if you have any of the following signs or symptoms. Avoidance of social outings or activities.
Panic or terror when around people or while thinking about being around people.
Shortness of breath.
Rapid heartbeat.
Shaking or sweating.
Fear of making eye contact with others or being watched by others.Anticipatory anxiety such as stomach problems, headaches or difficult sleeping before spending time with others.
 A self-help or support group can help you cope with your condition and learn what works for other people so that you can try it yourself. If you have trouble finding a group that meets in person, try going online to find one.

If you do go online, remember to be cautious about any advice your receive, even if the person claims to be a professional. It's easy and common to lie on the internet.
Try talking to a trusted friend or clergyperson., Keeping a written record of your symptoms, situations in which you feel anxious, and you level of fear or anxiety will help. Writing it down can help you organize your thoughts and process through some of the emotions.It can also help to have this information when going to your health care professional for treatment. As often as you feel comfortable, journal or write the following information.


Date and time of journal entry, event, and any other important time.
Anticipatory anxiety, or the anxiety you experience leading up to the social interaction.
Symptoms you experience before, during, and after.
The length of time it took to relax afterward.
Anything that you can do to help yourself feel better.

