;
, You'll need a few things directly from your book. If you don't have a copy of that particular book handy, it's good to note that Goodreads allows information to be copied off of the WorldCat and Amazon given you have a copy of the ISBN or ASIN of that copy of the book handy. As per policy, you can't take any information from Amazon's competitor, Barnes and Noble, and therefore this information can't be borrowed (such as for a Nook version of your book)., Although the page tool does a secondary search for verification to see if the book exists and gives you comparable results, take a moment to second check this list. title and determine if any comparable matches can be found. If you think the book's title is a match, but aren't completely sure, right-click the item and click either "open in New Window" or "Open in New Tab".


If the book is part of a volume or set of books, this titling can be interesting. After the title of the book, enter a space then the volume number in parenthesis. (i.e. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets should be titled as "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Harry Potter, #2)" (However, this item is already in the database so don't use this example as a real entry of a brand new book).
 Type the title in again, as if you were looking through an old-style card catalog. You can omit the words A, an, the, etc and type the remainder of the textA title known as "A New Light" would be listed as just "New Light".


Book entries that are part of a series get some special treatment. As opposed to adding the volume number last, you add it after the last few words at the end of the title. (i.e."Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets would be sorted out as "chamber of secrets (Harry Potter, #2), harry potter) as opposed to "chamber of secrets, harry potter (Harry Potter, #2)". However, be aware that new editions of already present books should have the corrected sort-by field entered already when you enter in to add another edition entry.
 As is stated on the New book entry page, add authors as they appear on the front of the book; however, if different verification sources disagree on the order or if there is no verifiable cover present, you can list them in alphabetical order.. However, with different format's of authors names, the formatting of the name is different dependent on your exact scenario and few situations will ever be the same for brand new books that aren't in the database just yet.


The very first author should be only the primary author of the book. No other authors should be listed within the first text box of authors. Make sure to return the name with the proper capitalization (capitalization should never be the same as the way it looks on the book, if the book presents it's authors in all-CAPS, but should be written as if it was the legal name entry on a paper form). Make sure to list the names starting with the first name with a space then the middle name (if available) then a space and onto the last name. Doing so will help the Goodreads Librarian link the books (if they indeed find it is a separate edition of an already present edition of an existing book) instead.
Authors who use their initials should list their names without a space between letters of a name but should have a period after each and every initial. (ex. J. L. Roth should be listed in this box as "J.L. Roth".)
If the author supplies their middle name as an initial, follow the initial rules in the sub-step immediately above. (If they send their initial, provide their initial followed by a period followed by a space and then their last name. If they provide their full middle name, type that in the box instead, as was written.)
Names with title or degree designations should be included in the list, but must never list these designations in the author name field itself, unless it is necessary to avoid confusion or is part of a recognizable pen name (such as "Dr. Seuss") (however, Dr. Doug B. Hornet should be listed as "Doug B. Hornet")
Suffixes to a name should be included separated by a space after the last name.
Additional authors (such as editors, narrators for audiobooks, etc.) should be listed as separate entries on new lines in the form. Supply the type of author for the book with the box that is displayed after clicking the "Add role" link next to the author's name box. Although you can choose between many different types of author-roles in the author role drop-down, there is a fill-in box that can be accessed if the author role isn't supplied.
If more than one author exists, there's a link just below this box, that asks you for these additional authors. Supply as many as is given in the order they appear on the front cover of the book, after clicking the "Add author" link as many times as you need to enter all of them into the appropriate boxes.
 field. Although it's okay to use your own image of that exact book from a file you have on hand, it is also acceptable to use the Amazon book picture (as long as the picture isn't just Goodreads or Amazon stock photos (stock photos on Goodreads look like a brown-covered book with just the plain text of the title and author of the book, as for Amazon, these generic cover art may vary a little more widely depending on the situation) or as long as the photo isn't a book with the same title but as another edition-again, it's best to research the item on Amazon under it's ASIN or ISBN before searching with the title., From one Librarian to the rest of the reading community here on wikiHow, Goodreads wants regular paperback or hardcover books to be listed under the ISBN or ISBN-13 number and use only the ASIN numbers for Kindle and Audible books.Use ISBN numbers for anything else, but you can still research the book on Amazon for information using the items ASIN number.. Click the "Click for ASIN" link to switch this box type to ASIN-mode.
 (While the publisher name can be found inside the book on the publisher data or title page or on Amazon itself according to an ISBN number search in the search bar, it is best to use the publication date of the book according to the date Amazon will give to you as the Publication date line will list) However, be careful that you are punctuating and capitalizing the publisher name as it appears there.If there is no data given and the data can't be retrieved from WorldCat, you can take the copyright year, leaving the remainder of the data unlisted for the other portions of the publication year: however, keep that information as a "case of last resort".
 As per Goodreads policies, they consider the amount of pages in the book to include all pages in the book, except for advertisements for other books or preview chapters. You can also grab this information from Amazon for this specific edition unique identifier. Other types of books will get special treatment and will vary greatly..


For books that are digital read-outs (or have been narrated, and may include Audiobook, Audio CD, Audio Cassette, Audible Audio, CD-ROM and MP3 CD listings), take the information you obtain for the ISBN and round the hour amount up to the next hour and list that hour reference as the number of pages. Don't try to estimate the pages of the real book to put into audiobook form. Even if the audiobook is only a minute or two long, round it up to the next hour. (e.g. If the listing says the book lasts 3 minutes, the page count should read 1 since the next total amount of hours past the 3 minutes is 1 hour.)

, Most often, these entries will be "Hardcover", "Paperback", "Kindle book" (as opposed to "eBook" when bought from the Kindle for Amazon store or bought as it's own Kindle book or "Audio CD" or even "Audible Audio", but there are many more format types available in this list.Be careful of books of the types of eBooks out there. If it is bought directly from a company selling eBooks (Amazon, Barnes and Noble), these should not be listed as "ebook" when these formats are on the list already. There are others that have similar conventions as to format types, but aren't commonly recognized or commonly used, but must be applied. If the book isn't sold from a first-rate retailer (Amazon, Barnes and Noble), you must select "eBook" from the list.If you can't determine the format, you must select "Unknown Binding". Be careful not to select "Unbound" as these look similar from the get-go but mean two completely different things.
Other commonly mismarked format differences include "Paperback" with "Mass Market Paperback", "Library Binding" with "Hardcover", "CD-ROM or MP3-CD with Audio CD" and must be watched accordingly.
If this type of format isn't available, click the "Other" link and type the format into the text-entry box.
 This field is for special entry information only (holiday edition, 2nd edition, etc.). This should be entered in the field as it is written on or inside the cover.
 This field is optional and should be used if there is an author or publisher site that describes the book you have. It should never list a fan site, library or other site about the book., This Description box is critical should the addition other editions pop-up, as these carry-over without even asking the edition adder from one edition to the next. If there is no data on this page as for this description, you can copy the data off the back cover or dust jacket to the book word-for-word, .


Although this rarely happens, if you still have no data for this box, you can write your own summary for the description, without writing a spoiler inside the box and without using images or links to external sites.
You can grab data in certain circumstances as to describe books from Wikipedia, but the exact link to this site must be written inside the description box to explain where this data originated from.
 Although the default selection at the top of the list is English (as English is the most-commonly used language for book entries on Goodreads), this language will depend on what language the book is written in. (i.e. If the book is a translated book (of an English book) into Portuguese, this entry must be selected as "Portuguese" since this is the language of the book., Although optional, sending this information out will help those looking to find a book with alternate information, or which has been republished with drastically different information.


Type in the original title and original publication dates using the same formatting as the title and publication dates field formatting above, if the data differs widely from the very first publication to the present-day one. Most often times, the original publication date will be the earliest copyright date mentioned on the book's title/publication data page just a few page-turns inside the book.Watch out for the "media type" field. Although it can be your "best friend" when the media is something other than a book, it can also be your worst enemy if you accidentally select "not a book". For information on what isn't a book or is something other than those books most commonly used, utilize the information presented here. The not a book option will now display for every account that is created, though it is only supposed to show for Goodreads Librarians.
 Although users who are long-time users are grandfathered in to not having to fill this field out, those who aren't will need to fill out this box. The reCaptcha box, once checked, will verify that you aren't a robot that is sending new books through the database, each and every time you fill out this form.
