 When in doubt, rely on your nose; it generally won't lead you astray. Just like milk, beef is something that you know is bad if you can give it a nice whiff. Smell it and you're unsure? Then it's probably okay. Again, you'll know.


Any smell that is off, bad, or different from the normal smell, is an indication that it has gone off. For the record, the smell will usually be sour -- a truly bad smell is what you're looking (or not looking) for.
For the record, just because your beef doesn't smell doesn't mean it's safe to eat -- it means it's not rotten. Even beef that is fresh can have bacteria inside that will have you regretting that late-night burrito habit of yours.;
, Does it feel sticky or tacky? How about slimy? That's an indication that it has gone off. You've probably touched fresh ground beef before -- does it feel like that? If not, throw it out.
 Contrary to popular preference, ground beef isn't always that appealing cherry red. In fact, stores go to great lengths to keep their beef red, even if it's a bit unnatural (brown beef just doesn't sell). Beef that is turning brown or even gray is still safe to eat.However, if it's turning green, pitch it.


It generally starts browning or graying from the inside. This is because there's no oxygen getting through to the core, starting the myoglobin on it's pigment-creating journey. It's not uncommon to buy meat from the store, open it right up, and find brown on the inside. It's a totally normal process.
Again, "safe" here meaning that it's not rotten. If it has E. coli, it'll have E. Coli whether it's fresh or not.
 If the meat has been deprived of oxygen, it may have turned colors. Letting it breathe may rejuvenate the pigment-forming myoglobin.If the meat remains a gray color and does not turn red, it is probably off. Allow it to sit in the air for about 15 minutes before giving up on it.


Only try this as a last ditch effort if you're really unsure. Most packaging nowadays allows for a minimal amount of oxygen to penetrate the meat (through the plastic film).Unless you've repackaged it yourself and it's perfectly sealed, this shouldn't be an issue.
 This is just a general guideline, letting you know when the seller deems the meat of the highest quality. Generally speaking, a couple of days after the sell-by date is still fine.That is, of course, if it's been properly stored the entire time. If it's been sitting out on the shelf, not so much. And if it's been frozen, it'll be good for months.
 Raw ground beef will last 1 or 2 days past the sell-by date if constantly refrigerated. But cooked ground beef will last you an entire week.So if you didn't get to the grill when you thought you would, cook the meat anyway. You can use it in any number of recipes later.


Just make sure you put it back in the fridge in an airtight container. Any meat that's left out -- cooked or not -- isn't wise to consume at any point.
 To start saving money and saving time asking questions, freeze your beef (cooked or uncooked)! Your meat will be totally safe to eat for 6-8 months if you go this route. And no more last minute trips to the grocery store!


And if you keep it at 0°, anything will last indefinitely. It might not taste as good, but it'll be safe to eat.
 Here's a few general guidelines to remember for the next time you're in this predicament:


Meat left out will keep for about 2 hours -- don't leave it out beyond this point.Meat that has been frozen and then thawed will keep for a day or two in the fridge. However, if it's been thawed in the microwave in water, you should cook it immediately.To reiterate, ground beef will keep in the fridge for a couple of days beyond the sell-by date; up to a week if cooked. It will keep in the freezer for 6-8 months. This is all, of course, if it's kept in an airtight container and properly stored.
 Even meat that has yet to see its expiration date pass will turn bad if it's left out in room temperature. Bacteria starts growing like weeds at anywhere from 40°F to 140°F (4°C to 60°C).In general, you have up to 2 hours to forget about it when you bring it home from the grocery store. It's best to avoid that though and stick it in the fridge immediately!

