 When a mosquito bites you, it injects some of its own saliva into your skin that released an enzyme which makes your blood easier to drink. Your body reacts to the proteins in the mosquito saliva and this causes an immunological reaction and inflammation. These cause an inflammatory response that leads to redness, bumps, and itching.Baking soda can neutralize the skin's response and provide release from itching.Some people gently dab baking soda into the area around the bite. You should only do this, however, if the bite is not irritated due to scratching as the baking soda can actually make symptoms worse in this case.Only do this if the bite is not irritated due to scratching, since the baking soda can cause further irritation in this case.;
, Raw honey possesses a variety of antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties.It is actually an ingredient in a many natural lotions and skin balms because of its potential to stop itch and skin irritation.A small dab of honey to the irritated portion of your skin can not only reduce itch but smooth out the bump.Honey's antibacterial properties also mean it can prevent the bite from becoming infected., The acidity in vinegar makes it a great choice when it comes to combating itch because it neutralizes the skin's response to histamines.Soak a cotton ball in vinegar and press it to the bite. If you want, you can put a band-aid over the cotton ball and leave it on. This could be helpful in reducing the temptation to itch in addition to providing relief from symptoms.There may be a mild burning sensation at first. Burning is particularly likely to occur if you already scratched the bite. This should diminish with time., There are some fruits that have been shown to reduce skin irritation and lessen the effects of a mosquito bite. This is mostly due to the strong antibacterial properties that can reduce your exposure to the histamines that cause itch.Use the pulpy inside layer of a banana. The oils of a banana can reduce itch. Apply the peel directly to the bite, rubbing the pulp into your skin.Lemon and lime are citrus fruits, making them anti-itch and anti-bacterial. Squeezing the juice from a lemon or lime into your skin can both reduce itch and prevent infection., Ice can reduce redness, swelling, and itching. It blocks histamines from getting deeper under the skin and increasing the severity of symptoms. Ice the bite shortly after you notice it. You can apply ice cubes directly on the skin or, if this is too intense of a cold for you, place them in a plastic bag and press that to your skin.