 Though the prosecutor decides whether to drop charges, a victim or key witness can have a significant impact on the case. If you say you aren't interested in sending the case to trial, there's a good change the prosecutor will drop the case.This is especially true of minor offenses.


In most jurisdictions, domestic violence is a "no tolerance" offense: prosecutors will not drop charges, even at victim's request.;
, Call the police station that filed your report to ask for a copy of it. Review the report carefully, paying attention to the section that describes what you told the police. If you notice anything inaccurate in the report, you can change your statement.


Do not lie to get charges dropped. You could be prosecuted yourself for fraud, perjury, or obstruction of justice.
 You need convincing reasons to persuade a prosecutor to drop charges. This is usually comes in the form of new information, evidence, or witnesses.Note that you can't contradict your earlier statement when adding new information.


Consider this option only if you provided incorrect information to the police. Whether you made a simple mistake or consciously lied, it could result in punishment for an innocent person. For example, if you thought something had been stolen from you, but you just misplaced it, let the police know.
Don't try to take back your original statement completely if the statement is correct. You could face criminal charges.
 Visit the police station to submit an amendment of the report either through interview or in writing. In either case, bring photo identification so that you can prove you are the person who filed the original report.


If the case is already scheduled to go before a judge, you may need to show up at the District or County Attorney's office instead.
 Law enforcement may ask for further information about the case. Making changes to a police report doesn't guarantee that the prosecutor will drop the charges. If the case proceeds anyway, they may ask you to testify in court. If you don't show up and cooperate, you could be fined or arrested, even if you did not want to press charges.