 Create and idea that is geared towards a particular group of people, e.g. people trying to lose weight, busy moms, firefighters, people who need five minute workouts, etc. Make sure it’s a product that will stand out and is one that your really believe in. Make sure you will be inspired to be dedicated and persistent it turning your product from words on paper to a real viable product.;
, Make a concrete deadline that you will promise to stick to. Make it short enough so you won’t get bored or distracted by something else, but long enough so you can get your ideas down and a strong outline and basis for your first fitness info product launch.


You need to feel busy so you constantly are thinking about your product and have new ideas flowing to help build it up. Remember, you know what you want to create, you are the expert, be confident in yourself and your info product.



One the non-line side of your first index card, write the title of your info product.
On the non-line side of the second index card write the first “chapter” of your info product. On the backside of that index card write 3 bullets: what the product actually is, why it will work, and why it will work for you; for each bullet, write between 1500 and 2000 words.
On the next few index cards repeat the previous step outlining different workout routines, food tips, and overall exercise advice and expertise that will get people really interested in buying your fitness info product.
 Make your outline a reality, and fast. If you wait to long something will come up or you will doubt yourself and not go through with your plan. The little details can be your worst enemy, so just GO for it, even if it isn’t perfect, at least you have a product out on the marketplace that people can buy. There is no reason why you can’t go back and fix the little imperfections and tweak a few things to come out with a 2.0 version.
 Set up a website and a way to receive payments, like Clickbank, but don’t spend your life savings trying to market to the world and have a top of the line website. You are wasting away your money, just a couple hundred dollars will give you an eye-catching and functioning website with payment collection method and the support for any problems that may arise.
 Connect yourself with others, like you, who are trying to sell an info product. You will be able to ask them for advice and use their contacts to get your product out there to potential customers. You can help yourself by helping them and promoting their products on your site so they will do the same for you.

