 Bullies tend to target those they perceive as insecure. They feel they can get away with picking on people who are unlikely to challenge them or fight back. Try to look confident as you move through the hallways. Proceeding with confident body language may deter bullies from bothering you.Stand up straight as you walk through the hallways. Make eye contact with people and offer a kind smile. Keep your shoulders back and your gait quick and even.
If someone does make a negative comment towards you, stand strong. Do not slump over to appear smaller. Instead, keep standing up tall and proceed as if you heard nothing. If you maintain a confident appearance in the face of bullying, bullies will be much less likely to see you as a potential target.;
, Strength in numbers is one of the most effective ways to prevent bullying. Form a solid friends group composed of supportive peers. A bully is unlikely to bother someone who has many close friends that will offer protection and support.Nurture the friendships you have. Make plans with friends regularly and offer your friends support and advice. If you're new to a school, you can make friends by talking to people between classes and joining extracurricular activities.
Try to be nice to everyone in your school. Avoid putting people down and try to be as kind as possible to other students. If you're well-liked in your school, people will defend you against criticism. This can help reduce the risk bullies will bother you., Bullies tend to run in the same group, and there may be a certain area around the school where bullies tend to gather. Avoiding these areas altogether can help you avoid unnecessary harassment. There also may be certain areas where bullying is likely to occur, like a bathroom or locker, due to the lack of teacher supervision.Know where bullies tend to hangout. Bullies may, for example, congregate around a certain part of the cafeteria during lunch. Try to avoid going into this area during your lunch break.
You should also be careful navigating areas where teacher supervision is limited. Bullies may, for example, target victims in places like isolated hallways, locker rooms, and bathrooms. If you have to expose yourself to these areas, use the buddy system. If you have to use the bathroom, for example, ask a friend to accompany you to help you repel bullies.
 If someone targets you, be assertive. If a bully sees that you will not tolerate mistreatment, he or she may back off. Bullies tend to target those who won't fight back, so make sure to establish yourself as an assertive person.If someone makes a mean comment to you, tell them that's not okay. Use a strong, confident voice to say, "I don't appreciate being talked to like that." Then, walk away. Remember to use confident body language as you go.
Do not cross the line into aggression, however. Aggressive people resort to yelling or physical intimidation to get their way. You do not want to stoop to this level, as these tactics are similar to the ones bullies use. Remain calm when addressing negative behavior. Do not raise your voice or use aggressive gestures.
 Bullies target people who feel bad about themselves. If you have high self-esteem, this will show up in your behavior in subtle ways. This can help make you less of a target for bullies. If you feel good about yourself, bullies will not see you as an easy target.Engage in activities you enjoy so you can build up certain skill sets. If you love singing, for example, ask your parents if you can take voice lessons. Join the school choir or audition for a role in a musical.
Work on keeping your grades up so you feel good about your intelligence. Ask your parents to provide you with extra help in areas where you struggle.
Eat right and exercise regularly. If you feel good about your body, you will have higher self esteem.
 Do not be a bystander to bullying. Just as you would like someone to stick up for you, make sure to stick up for others when you see bullying occurring at your school. If you see bullying happening in your school, speak up immediately.Know who the bullies are in your school. There may be a group of kids in your class who gang up on other kids on the bus, in the cafeteria, or in the locker room. Know who these kids are and make sure you document any cases of bullying you see.
Talk to your parents and school officials about bullying. If you feel safe doing so, talk to the bullies themselves while the incidents are occurring. If you see a group of kids mocking another student's weight in the locker room, for example, say something like, "Hey, leave him alone. How would you like it if someone talked to you like that?"

, Bullies thrive on a negative reaction in their targets. If a bully sees you will not be intimidated, he or she may back off. When you're being targeted by a bully, work on ignoring this and walking away.Do not feel like you're being a coward by walking away. Engaging with a bully can sometimes escalate the situation, and may even force it to become physical. If someone is trying to provoke a reaction from you, ignore them.
Do not respond to intimidating text messages, e-mails, or phone calls. Pretend that you cannot hear name calling in the hallway or classroom. Once again, use confident body language. Hold your head high and keep your back straight and tall while you walk by bullies.
 Sometimes, you may have to talk to a school official about bullying. Bullying can get dangerous, especially if there's a threat of physical violence. If bullies continue to target you, despite your efforts to deter their behavior, you should start documenting what is occurring. You may need this information when you report bullies to school officials.


Write down what happened after it occurred. Make sure to record the date, time, and place.
Get witnesses, if possible. If someone else saw you were being bullied, ask that person to back up your story if necessary. A second set of eyes can help you make your case.
 High school is a time of intense peer pressure. People sometimes talk about their friends behind their backs, or choose to exclude one friend from a group. Do not engage in this kind of behavior. You do not want to become a bully yourself.You want to foster a welcoming environment amongst your peers and within your friend group. Avoid excluding friends from certain activities. Make sure everyone feels comfortable around you and in your group of friends.
Do not engage in gossip. If you feel tempted to talk about a friend behind his or her back, imagine how you would feel to be on the receiving end of that kind of treatment.
 If bullying does not stop, you may need the support of other people. If you are being targeted by bullies, alert your parents. They may be able to talk to your teachers, or the parents of the bullies, to help you find a solution so you can feel safe and comfortable at school.If you're a teen, you may be hesitant to tell an adult. You do not want to be labeled a squealer or a tattletale. However, keep in mind that, in certain situations, it is necessary to seek out the help of a grownup.
If the harassment is affecting your mental health, to the point you do not want to get out of bed or attend school, telling an adult is important. It is also important to tell an adult if physical violence has occurred, or if there's a threat of physical violence.
 A solid friends group can help you cope with bullies. If your friends are being targeted by the same people, they may have advice for you on how to cope. It can also be helpful to know you're not alone in a situation. If you're being targeted by a bully, talking over the issue with your friends can help remind you that you're not alone.
 If the situation gets out of hand, you need to alert school officials. Bullying that becomes violent, or bullying that affects your mental health, needs to be reported. Do not fear being labeled as a tattletale in these situations. Nothing is more important than your physical and emotional wellbeing.


Report the bullying to a teacher or school official you trust. Make sure you provide the information you've documented, including the nature of the bullying and when and where it occurred.
See if you can get anyone to step up with you. If you and a friend are both being bullied, you can help corroborate one another's stories.

