 Try to get at least one hour of exercise each day.


Do light exercise that does not twist or negatively impact your back, such as gentle yoga. Avoid contact sports like football, hockey, and rugby. You should also avoid lifting heavy weights. Instead, go for run, walk, or bike ride.
Eat a healthy diet composed primarily of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, with a small amount of lean protein. Avoid eating meat, fast food, and processed foods, which are heavy in sugar, salt, and fat. Drink at least eight glasses of water each day and avoid soda and sweet drinks.
Do not smoke. Smoking could increase your neck pain.If you already smoke, invest in nicotine patches or gum to reduce your cravings. Cut your cigarette intake down gradually. For instance, smoke half a pack instead of a full pack each day for a couple weeks. Then cut down to one pack every three days for two more weeks. Continue to reduce your cigarette consumption in this way until it reaches zero.
 Bending, twisting, and straining your back can increase your chances of developing spondylosis down the line. If possible, try to find another job with the same company you work for now. For instance, move to a desk job instead of doing unpacking, lifting, and similarly physical work.


Even desk jobs, however, can have their own risks. Sitting all day in one position with your neck craned toward a computer can lead to neck and back pain, too. Ensure your chair provides an adequate amount of back support. Adjust your position frequently to avoid developing cramps and pain in your back and neck. Walk about the office – even just a short distance -- every 30 minutes or so.
 There are a number of medical procedures that can increase your chances for developing spondylosis later. Arthritis, a ruptured or slipped disk, fractures due to osteoporosis could all increase your risk for spondylosis. Talk to your doctor about treatment for these and related conditions, especially those related to neck or back injuries.Follow your treatment plan in order to avoid developing or worsening spondylosis.

