 While you should not engage in high-impact, strenuous exercise regimens during severe menstrual cramps, gentle exercise can relieve symptoms by stimulating blood flow and releasing endorphins.


Effective exercises during cramping are aerobic exercises such as walking, biking, or swimming.Yoga poses that stretch the back, groin, chest, and abdominal muscles might also help stimulate blood flow to the uterus and relieve pain.Make sure that you are exercising gently, while wearing loose and non-restrictive clothing.Overdoing it or wearing constrictive clothing might aggravate symptoms.
An added benefit of exercise is potential weight loss, which can also reduce the frequency of menstrual cramps., While it might seem counterintuitive to engage in sexual activity during menstrual cramping, sexual activity can be a great way to relieve symptoms. Orgasms help to relieve cramping by stimulating blood flow, releasing endorphins, and killing pain.Plus they might serve as a welcome distraction from your pain.
 Rubbing the affected area can help stimulate blood flow to the uterus, which can ameliorate that cramping feeling. Massage your lower belly gently with your fingertips and use a circular motion.You can massage your abdomen for as long as you need to, as often as you need to, in order to reduce your symptoms.


Acupuncture and acupressure might have positive effects similar to massage. Some women have reported pain relief through these services.Acupuncture and acupressure work by stimulating the central nervous system in order to heal injuries and relieve pain. If you take this route, be sure that you talk to your doctor first and that you do your research: you only want to see a licensed professional, not an amateur. , Heat helps to increase blood flow, which helps minimize cramping pains.Run yourself a hot bath whenever you feel the worst cramps coming on. Repeat once or twice a day as needed.


If you cannot take a hot bath, you can get similar benefits by applying a hot water bottle or heating pad to your abdomen for 20 minutes at a time.
Be sure that you are not overdoing the heat: you do not want to scald or burn yourself. A comfortable warmth is just as effective and much safer than a scalding heat.
Heat can be equally as effective as pain medication for reducing menstrual cramps, and has fewer side effects.