 If the jar is to be a decorative item, then it's important that the jar looks good. Keep back suitable jars from your cooking or rummage through old jars at bazaars or thrift stores.


Clean the jar well and allow to dry thoroughly before proceeding.
 There are lots of possibilities for the jar style, so you'll need to narrow this down to what pattern, shapes or effect you want. Some examples include:


Stripes (horizontal, vertical or zigzag)
Solid chunks of glitter color (for example, the bottom half or the top half of the jar, or one side/portion only)
Circles or other geometric shapes
Letters, and so forth.
If you want the whole jar covered in glitter, either use bands of double-sided tape carefully stuck around the jar overlapping each other until the whole jar is covered or buy sheets of double-sided tape, which allow you to cut the double-sided tape to the exact size of the jar.
 Stick the tape onto the jar with great care, ensuring that there are no wrinkles or bubbles.


If you make a mistake, pull it away and begin again. If an area that shouldn't be sticky is sticky, wipe off with a little lavender oil or other sticky-spot remover.
It tends to be easier to work with double-sided tape that retains the backing on the front side of the tape until you've finished adding it and are ready to add the glitter. At that point, simply pull off the front-sided backing and begin to work with it.
 Work over a large piece of paper that will allow you to collect the glitter that doesn't make it onto the jar. Sprinkle the glitter over the tape and ensure that it is sticking in place.


It might even work to roll the jar over glitter on the paper catching excess glitter.
 Keep adding glitter to areas of the tape that have been missed, to ensure thorough coverage.
 Use a soft bristled paintbrush to brush off excess glitter that hasn't stuck onto the jar or that is simply sitting on the glass itself.
 The glitter jar is finished now. Pick up the excess glitter on the paper and carefully funnel it back into the glitter bottle.

