 Taking a photo straight-on will add weight and make you appear disproportionate. Instead, turn at a ⅔ angle to give a slimming appearance to your body. Twist the shoulders away from the camera.Don’t slouch, make sure that your shoulders are back. Good posture will make you appear taller and thinner.
Focus on your thinnest parts. If you have a small waist, angle the camera to show off how small it is. If your legs are your best feature, then turn in such a way as to accentuate them. Make sure not to add bulk to the midsection by keeping your arm close to your torso. Instead, place your arm in a way that gives space between your waist and arm. Your photographer should be able to direct you.Pose in diagonal lines. This means that you position your body so that your arms, legs, and torso avoid being directly vertical.
 Don’t keep both your feet straight forward, as this will stiffen the rest of your body and make you look less comfortable.


Try angling one foot away from the other at about 90 degrees.
Place one foot on a taller surface to create depth to the shot.
Lean your weight on one foot. For females, shift your weight onto your back foot. This can help give you a flattering angle. For males, shift your weight onto your front foot to give you a more masculine pose., It may seem easiest to let your hands hang at your sides, but this can give a lifeless look to a photo. Instead, try different ways of posing your hands. Think about your arms, too. Guys who want larger arms may want to keep them closer to their bodies, while women who want thinner arms should make sure the arms are away from the body.Create movement with your hands as you put them into the position instead of just placing the hand. Placing the hand through movement helps create a more natural pose.Have your hands near your pockets. Pockets act as a natural resting stop for our hands, so pose with them resting over or slightly inserted into your pockets. For males, slipping your hand inside your pocket creates a nice pose.Put one hand on your hip. This pose is primarily used for women, but works wonder for highlighting your waist - the thinnest part of your body. It also helps avoid making your arm appear larger.Always bend your fingers and wrists. You will rarely stand or sit without either of these things occurring naturally, so recreate them in your photos. Guys can pose like they're holding small rocks, while girls can pose with longer, elegantly curved hands.Avoid having your hands open near your face. They are roughly the same size, and will make you seem out of proportion. If you keep your hands next to your face, close them slightly or tuck them partially in your hair.Avoid clasping your hands. Holding your own hand doesn’t seem natural unless you are in a sitting position., As with all posing, avoid stiffness. Keeping your legs relaxed and bent will make a photo feel more natural. Try crossing your legs at the ankles or calves if you are female.For males, try spreading your legs slightly.


Bend one knee slightly and place it in front of the other to make your legs appear thinner.
Avoid too wide of a stance, as this will look posed and unnatural. A wide stance can also show aggression, which is typically something to steer clear from in photos.
Shooting the photo with the camera from below will give the illusion of very long legs, a definite plus if you happen to be on the shorter side., Stiff shoulders can throw off the movement of the rest of your body. Your shoulders should never be directly facing the camera, but should always be turned at an angle.


Try shooting a photo from behind the shoulders, with your head turned back. This is an interesting new perspective and can make your body seem smaller.
Placing your shoulders on different planes can add depth to your photo. If you can manage, drop one shoulder so it is comfortably lower than the other., The saying for portraits goes, “if it can bend, bend it.” Bent joints are more natural looking than stiff ones. This includes your elbows, wrists, knees, hips, and ankles.