 Look for corn flour or maize flour at the store. In addition to the flour and water you will need a saucepan and a wooden spoon, as well as a stove to cook the ugali on.


The saucepan will need to be big enough to hold the 6 cups of ingredients with room to vigorously stir them around.
You can use cornmeal if you can't find the flour at the store but the consistency will be very different. Corn flour is more finely ground than cornmeal, so the finished consistency will be smoother and more gelatinous with the corn flour.
This dish can get messy while cooked, so might consider using a non-stick pan. Either way, expect a bit of scrubbing after the dish is finished.;
, You want the water to be very hot so that it keeps enough heat while you add the flour.
, You want to keep stirring constantly, making sure that the mixture is getting even heating and that you smooth out any lumps that develop., Cook untill thickened.


You may need to add more than 1 cup of flour to get your ugali to the right texture. Don't worry about staying strictly at 1 cup, instead pay more attention to the texture.
 The texture is usually thicker than mashed potatoes and is best cooked until the dough pulls from the side of the pot.


It may get difficult to stir and incorporate the flour by the end of cooking.However, you want to keep going, so that the finished product is pretty firm.
 Use a wooden spoon to transfer it, taking care while you do it, as the ugali can be very hot.
 Simply cut across making a grid-like pattern, so that the pieces are easier to handle. You could also cut the ugali into slices like a pie, cutting across the center in all directions.


If you don't want to cut the ugali, you can just keep it whole. During the meal allow people to simply pull chunks off with their fingers.
 To eat it, you first want to roll a small piece into a ball, about the size of a golf ball or smaller. Then make an indentation in the middle of it with your thumb.You can then use this indentation to scoop up other foods served in the meal., It goes well with many foods, particularly those that are juicy and need to be scooped up.


Consider serving with a fresh salad or with lightly cooked or steamed vegetables, such as collard greens or spinach, prepared to your desired taste.
Ugali also goes well with any kind of stew. Just use it as you would bread, for instance sopping up any delicious leftover sauce.
Traditionally, ugali can also just be paired with buttermilk.

