 Components like lights, windshield wipers, radios, etc. draw power from the battery to run. If you want your battery to charge effectively, they will need to be turned off. .;
, In order to jumpstart your vehicle you will need another vehicle that has a good battery to give you a boost. Usually parking the cars facing each other will get the batteries closes, but sometimes it's better to park them side by side. Either way, be sure that the cars are not touching.
 You will need these to connect the dead battery to the good battery. Current will flow between them, allowing your engine to start and charge your dead battery. If you have a choice, longer cables can be easier to connect but transfer energy less effectively than short cables. Also, a lower gauge cable (thicker) will transfer energy faster.
 The batteries will be located in a different place depending on the make and model of the vehicles. Most batteries will be found either under the hood and or in the trunk of your vehicle. Sometimes the battery is not easily accessible. If this is the case you most likely have a charging post under the hood that is connected to the battery.
 You should connect one red clip to the red post on the dead battery first. Next you should connect the other red clip to the red post of the good battery.
 Connect one black clip to the black post on the good battery. Your cables are live now, so be careful not to touch the last metal clip to yourself or any part of your car besides unpainted metal under the hood.
 This piece of metal is referred to as a ground and completes the circuit. When the circuit is completed it can cause an arc of electricity (sparking). This could damage your battery and is why you should ground the circuit away from your battery and NOT on the black battery terminal of the dead battery., This will start the process of charging your battery.
 You want to have enough power to turn the engine over when you hit the key. One good way to see if you have battery power is to turn on an interior light. If it burns normally then you might be able to start your car. If the light is dim or doesn’t come on you should wait a little longer.
 Sometimes you can start your car immediately after hooking up the jumper cables. If it doesn’t start the first time you can try two or three times, but if it still doesn’t start you will need to wait and allow the battery time to charge., Once your car is solidly running it is time to remove the jumper cables. Start by removing the black clip attached to the metal ground.
 You should first remove the black clip from the good battery. Next you will remove the red clip from the same battery.
 Now the cables should be completely disconnected and you can put them away. You can also close the hoods of both cars.
 As your motor runs it turns your alternator. This in turn charges your battery. You should allow your battery to charge up for a few minutes before hitting the road., Sometimes the cause of a dead battery is as simple as cold weather or forgetting to turn your lights off. Other times there can be a more serious issue such as a bad alternator. If you suspect this is the case you should follow up with a mechanic.

