 Under-eye bags are often the result of allergies that lead to inflammation in the face.Since the skin around your eyes is thinner than skin on the rest of your body, fluid tends to collect there and puff out the skin.


Use an allergy medication to treat hay fever and other seasonal allergies. Try an over-the-counter medicine or get a prescription from your doctor.
Avoid spending time near allergy sources, like flowers, dust or animals. Make sure your house is well-vacuumed and wash your linens frequently.
 Side sleepers may actually notice that the eye on the side they sleep on has a larger bag than the eye on the other side.


Try gradually sleeping on your back more often than your stomach or side. It's not easy to change sleeping positions, so you may have a little difficulty getting used to it at first. You can try adding pillows to your sides to make it easier to sleep on your back.
Use a second pillow under your head if you're a back sleeper. With your head at a slightly downward angle, fluid won't collect under your eyes at night.
 Since facial skin, and especially under-eye skin, is thin and fragile, it's easy to damage it and make it weaker, which leads to even bigger bags. Use the following methods to start treating your under-eye skin with more care:



Don't go to sleep wearing makeup. Wearing makeup to bed is one of the most common things to do that causes eye bags. The chemicals in makeup can irritate your eyes at night. Washing your face before going to sleep is an important part of good facial hygiene.
Be sure to wash off any makeup before bed. Mascara and eyeliner can smudge overnight, making circles look darker. Use a good eye makeup remover to gently wipe away makeup, then splash your face with water a few times and pat it dry with a soft towel. Be gentle – too much scrubbing can weaken skin around the eyes.
Moisturize your face every night. Making sure your face, and especially your eye area, gets enough moisture helps the skin retain elasticity and strength. Use a face moisturizing lotion or oil every night before bed.
Use sunscreen every day. The sun's rays can cause the thin skin around your eyes to become even more fragile. Make sure you protect your skin there every day, even during the winter.
 A salty dinner paired with a few cocktails is fine every once in a while, but if you make a daily habit of eating salt and drinking alcohol, it can have a long-term effect on your eye bags. Years of water retention in the facial area can lead to permanently stretched-out bags. To prevent this from happening to you, try making the following changes:



Reduce the amount of salt you use in everyday cooking. Try cutting it in half or cutting it out entirely - you'd be surprised how flavorful food can be without the addition of a lot of salt. Try cutting back the salt you use in baked goods and avoiding salt altogether at dinnertime, since your body won't have time to balance things out before you sleep.
Drink less alcohol. Drinking alcohol causes water retention, so the less you drink, the less puffy your under-eye bags will look in the morning. On the nights when you do drink, follow each drink with an equal amount of water. Try to stop drinking early in the evening rather than having your last one just before bed.

