 To use this method, you will need at least eight pieces of 3” x 3” paper (6 cm x 6 cm). You can use printer paper or origami paper, which will be thin and easy to fold. You will also need a ruler and glue.You can use thicker paper like cardstock but make sure they are 3” x 3” as this will make it easier to fold and fit the pieces of paper together.;
, Make sure the top right corner folds to meet the bottom left corner on a diagonal line. You can use the ruler to ensure you get a nice even fold on a diagonal.If you’re using double-sided paper, make sure to fold it so you can see the colors. Otherwise, they’ll just be hidden in the frisbee.
 Take the left top corner (or the tip of the triangle shape of the paper) and fold it so it touches the bottom left corner of the paper. Use your fingers or the ruler to make a nice, even crease.Repeat these steps for the remaining seven pieces of paper. Make sure the folds are on the same side. For example, if the first piece is folded so the left top corner touches the bottom left corner of the paper, you should do this for the remaining pieces of paper. This will make it easy to put the pieces of folded paper together and form the frisbee.
 Once you have eight pieces of folded paper, you can use glue to put them together in the shape of a frisbee. You will glue and slide each piece of paper together to form the frisbee. You can use other adhesives like tape or staples, but glue will work the best.Turn one of the folded pieces so the point of the smaller triangle faces to the left and the right point of the larger triangle faces to the right. Place a small dot of glue on the top corner of the folded piece where the smaller triangle and the larger triangle form a straight line.
Slide the section with the glue into the pocket of the second folded piece of paper. The pocket will be formed by the smaller triangle section of the folded piece of paper. Press down on the paper so the glue sets properly. The pieces of paper should make two 45° angles on the inner and outer edge when you’re done.
 Add glue to the piece of paper you just glued inside the other. The pieces will naturally make an octagon as you put them together. Make sure you don’t accidentally glue the paper to your work surface and risk tearing it. , It’s better to throw paper frisbees with more of a backhand flick than a full frisbee toss. The motion should be almost entirely in your wrist. Paper frisbees aren’t sturdy enough to stand up to a throw with all your strength behind it.Don’t worry if it doesn’t work the first time. Try to figure out what went wrong and fix it the next time you make one. Is it too floppy to throw? You probably made it too large or added too much glue. Did one of the connections come apart? Add a little more glue and try again.

