 Stretching your jaw can also help relieve pain. Begin with your jaw in a relaxed and centered position, but do not allow your teeth to touch. Use the mirror to see if your jaw is centered.You may have tension in your jaw without realizing it. If this is the case, your jaw may be shifted to one side or the other.When the mouth is closed and in a neutral position, the lips should be closed but the teeth should not be in contact.
 As you are opening your mouth, imagine that your jaw is dropping to the ground and that it is pulling your mouth open. You should feel your jaw muscles being stretched, but should not be in any pain.


Be careful not to over-stretch, the joints in your neck and jaw are small and can be easily irritated. There is no need to open your mouth past the point of discomfort.Hold this position for five seconds. While you do this, look upward toward the ceiling. If there is any tension in your cheeks, you will begin to feel the muscles relax as you stretch and hold this position. , As you begin to close your mouth, bring your gaze back to center. Be sure that your jaw returns to a centered and neutral position. Use the mirror to check the alignment of your jaw.
 Slide your jaw as far to the left as you comfortably can while being careful not to let your teeth come in contact or grind. As you stretch your jaw to the left, look to the right. You may feel tension in your temple when doing this.


Hold this positions for five seconds. Remember to keep your eyes to the right as you hold this stretch. You may feel tension in the opposite corners of your jaw., After allowing the muscles to relax, slowly close your mouth and bring your lips together. Bring your gaze back to center.
 Repeat the stretch, but this time, to the opposite side. Remember to look the opposite way of the stretch and be careful that your teeth do not grind.Hold for five seconds. Allow the muscles to relax before returning your jaw to a neutral position.
 Whenever you feel your jaw beginning to tighten up, perform this stretching routine three-to-five times.

