 Price comparison tools are websites or apps that allow you to select a product and see the prices that product is offered at by various online vendors. Most of these tools are from third party companies that are not affiliated with any one store or seller.Some major vendors also have their own price comparison tools, however.When doing an Internet search for a third party comparison tool, go to your favorite search engine and type in "compare prices online." You could also type something along the lines of "price comparison tool."






When searching for a specific store's or company's price comparison tool, try doing a search for "price comparison tool" or "compare prices online" followed by the name of the store. If the store has its own tool, the result should pop up fairly high in the list.






If you do a lot of Internet surfing on a smart phone, consider doing an Internet search for "price comparison apps" instead.;
, While each price comparison tool is a little different, many can be searched in the same manner. The product keyword you search by can be for a generic item, like "mixer," or it can be the name of a specific company's product, like "Kitchenaid mixer." Some comparison tools will even make suggestions as you type.
 If you are unable to think of a specific search term, you can also browse through the departments on the site until you find what you are interested in.
 Regardless of whether you did a keyword search or browsed through the departments, a lengthy list of possible items will pop up. Look through the list until you find the product you are interested in buying.


Some price comparison tools will list how many merchants are selling a certain product. If you want the widest range in results, which usually results in the best deal, look for a product that is sold by more merchants rather than one sold by fewer.
 Click on the image or the name of the product to go to its product page.
 Usually, the price comparisons pop up immediately. If not, you should be able to click on a tab that says something along the lines of "compare prices." On the price comparison page, the best deal is usually highlighted in some way.
 The lowest price may not always be the best deal. Sometimes, a product sold by a reliable, trusted seller or by a featured seller will result in a more pleasant shopping experience. Before you purchase from any seller, you should make it a point to become familiar with each to gauge whether or not the seller can be trusted.
 With most price comparison tools, a link to the seller's product page or to the seller's website will be available. You will need to buy the product from the seller itself rather than through the price comparison tool.

