 This is a crucial step in developing loyalty in your dog: loyalty will develop out of an emotional connection between owner and dog. If you show your dog that you care about it and that it can trust you, the dog will develop a sense of loyalty. Praising your dog, petting it kindly, and giving it treats will all help you endear yourself to your dog.Stimulating your dog physically and mentally will strengthen this bond. Play with your dog and walk it often, and train the dog to keep its mind sharp., Obedience training is a crucial step towards developing loyalty in a dog. If your dog views you as the alpha in the social structure and respects you enough to obey commands, they’re more likely to behave well and treat you with loyalty.You can take your dog to an obedience-train class, where they will not only learn simple commands (sit, stay, come), but will also be socialized with other dogs and people., Implement a system such as reward-based training (in which the dog gets a reward or treat for correctly following a command) with your dog. Your dog will become more obedient and will also view you as a source of food and other good things.This will help your dog develop trust towards you, which in turn breeds loyalty.
 While there will be times when it’s appropriate to punish your dog, you must punish it correctly and never with violence or cruelty. Punishments are often ineffective, as your dog may not understand what it’s being punished for and may learn to fear or avoid you.If you choose to punish your dog—for example, by taking away its favorite toy after it’s destroyed one of your possessions—make sure to implement this punishment while the dog is in the act of misbehaving. Otherwise, the dog will not understand what it’s being punished for.If you excessively discipline your dog to maintain its obedience, it may grow to fear you and treat you with aggression.To train a loyal dog, focus on positive reinforcement.
 The best way to ensure that any dog will be loyal to you is to treat your dog with loyalty, love, affection, and respect. Train your dog to obey you, and hold it to the rules that you create. Dogs develop loyalty towards owners who care for them (food, bedding, warmth, etc.) and who protect them, play with them, and pay attention to their needs.

