 You can use both real or fake flowers for this method. Try to find some flowers that have a flat base or back, such as daisies. They will be easier to glue onto the clip.


Chose either real or fake flowers. Do not combine real and fake flowers on the same hair clip.
if you are using real flowers, choose something sturdy, such as chrysanthemum, mums, or daisies. You might want to pass on the delicate flowers, such as pansies and blue bells.;
, Make sure that your flowers and clean and free of dust (and in the case of real flowers, free of insects). You will also need to make sure that the back of the blossom is as flat as possible. Here's how you should prepare real and fake flowers:


Cut fresh flowers off the stems. Trim single flowers, such as daisies, as close to the base as possible. This will make it easier to glue it onto the clip.Discard the stems.
Pull fake flowers off the stem. Then, use a pair of sharp scissors to trim down the plastic nub at the base of the flower.Discard the stems.
If you are using tiny flowers, such as baby's breath, keep them in small bunches. Don't trim them down all the way to the base of the flower.
Consider saving the leaves from your flowers. They can make great fillers.
 This will help hide the metal part. It may also make your hair clip look fuller. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Glue two to three leaves onto the clip with the points facing outward, like rays on a sun.
Glue several leaves down the center of the clip, with the points overlapping each other like scales.
Glue a strip of ribbon onto the top of the clip to hide the metal.
Glue several long strands of ribbon to one of the ends of the clip.
 This is not necessary, but it will help give it some stability. The felt circle should be large enough to cover the back of the flower, but small enough so that you can't see it when you look down at the flower.Try to use a felt color that matches your flower color.
 Place the glue onto the clip first, then press the flower into the glue. You can arrange them in any pattern your want, but here are some ideas to get you started:


Work in odd numbers. This will make your piece look more natural and organic.
Work from large to small. Place the largest flower at one end of the clip, and work your way towards the other side, using smaller flowers as you go.
Use all the same size flowers on a barrette clip. If you have small flowers, such as chamomile or mini roses, you can glue them down the center of the clip.
Use the largest flower in the center of the clip, and place the smaller flowers to the left and right of it.
Place a large flower in the center and use filler, such as baby's breath or leaves, around it.
If you are using a real flower, consider using a safety pin to attach the fresh flower to the clip. Slide the needle through both of the felt parts., This is not necessary, but it can give your flower some extra sparkle. Choose tiny rhinestones instead of large, clunky ones for a more professional finish.

