 Stories for adults are much different than stories for 10 year-olds, say. This is an important factor, as it can help so you know not to describe too many battle scenes and such if you are writing for kids to read when/if they read it.;
, This is the perfect way to go. Think about the characters. Think about the setting. Think about the book/show/movie's main plot and how you could maybe incorporate bits from that. Jot down any ideas- stupid or not. Who knows? Maybe making one of the characters get sick turns out to be a good component!

, Sometimes Brainstorming needs a little help, and we can do research for that help. Watch a few episodes, read the book, or watch the movie if you haven't recently, to refresh that mind of yours. You're going to need a BIG idea instead of a plain one.
 Writing a novel takes patience. It can take weeks- sometimes even months to do it! So warming up means- yes, you may write one shots- writing just snip-its and bits from the show.
 It seems we are lugging the actual writing of the novel out far, but it is all worth it in the end. Think, think, and sleep on it.
 Write! Write like crazy. But don't forget to use your ideas and not just write down 'gibberish'. Don't worry about mistakes- this comes later!

, You never really want to be OOC (Out Of Character)

, Now it may seem like you need to write as many Microsoft Word pages as a book. But don't worry! There's a solution to this madness, it seems. If you want to know how many 'book pages' your writing is, take the word count and divide it by 250. This is a simple way to figure it out! 250 is about how many words there are on a smaller novel. Of course, unless you are Gail Carson Levie or Rick Riordan, you might want to start small in the way of novels. 100 to 300 is a nice area to aim for, in the way of pages, of course., Most authors write their novel in a month, maybe two or three.
 Finally, it's time for the step that annoys most writers. Edits. Now this time editing can very well vary. If you wrote a novel, say, around 150 pages long, it will take less time than someone who wrote 300! And some writers write in more mistakes than others- who knows where you might fall under that line, but don't let it get in your way. If it's bugging you, sending to a friend for opinions is also a very helpful state- you can see what someone else thinks, other than your mom or dad who always say nice things!

,, Publishing it is not very likely- fanfiction is most times never published because the books are always under copyright- same applies for movies and shows. But Fanfiction.net is always an option! (Not exactly for 300 pages, though.)

, Who knows? Maybe they might just want to share it and share it- this seems like publishing for the world! It also gives great feelings in your stomach.

