 The better you feel about yourself, the more fun you will have on the dance floor. Put on your favorite outfit, and be sure to wear something that you can actually move in. Stay away from clothes that are too tight or short, and wear comfortable shoes.


You should also take into account the dress code at the nightclub; some clubs are more strict than others.;
, The more people you are with, the less self-conscious you will feel on the dance floor. In addition, having friends around to talk to will serve as a distraction so that you are not constantly focusing on being watched by strangers. Hit the club with an upbeat group of friends who you enjoy having fun with.
 Before heading to the dance floor, do a lap around the club to check out what's going on. Take in your surroundings, watch other people dancing, and get a feel for the kind of music that is playing. Getting comfortable with your surroundings will cut some of the nervousness you may feel upon entering the club.


If you need to head to the bathroom to touch up your makeup or check your hair, do it before hitting the dance floor so that you're not distracted while dancing.
 You don't have to get drunk to have fun at a club, but consider heading to the bar and sipping on a drink while chatting with your friends. This will help you loosen up, give you time to adjust to the club setting, and maybe even meet new people!


Always drink responsibly. While alcohol may loosen you up, getting too drunk will only cause you to get into trouble and embarrass yourself.
 If you are feeling nervous about dancing, you might be tightening up your neck and shoulder muscles or locking up your knees, making dancing feel and look very awkward. Allow these muscles to loosen up. If it helps, head to the bathroom, take a few deep breaths, and shake your entire body to release some tension.
 Rather than focusing on what moves you should bust out, take a moment to listen to the song that's playing and notice the beat. Once you have found the beat, start bobbing your head to the music. This will help you find your rhythm when dancing.


You will have the most fun dancing to songs that you know or that you like. If you are having trouble finding the beat of unfamiliar music, or if you don't like the music that's playing, you might want to sit a few dances out until a song you like comes on.
 If you are with a group of friends, then let them encircle you so that you don't feel self-conscious about being watched by strangers. Allow your body to move naturally to the music. Pay attention to the rhythm of the song that's playing, and don't try to dance faster than the beat of the song itself.


Start by bobbing your head to the beat and moving from side to side.
Sway your hips back and forth.
Take small steps from side to side while dancing.
 If you continue to feel uncomfortable or stuck, then look around the dance floor and find some good dancers who really seem to be in their element. Pay attention to their style their rhythm, and imitate some of their moves. Be sure not to be too obvious by constantly staring at one person.
 Look like you're having fun! Smiling and laughing with your friends will release endorphins in your body, making dancing feel more natural and fun. Plus, you will look silly dancing with a frown or scowl on your face.


Sing along with your favorite songs to help get you riled up.

