 Look behind your TV and find the HDMI ports at the back. Your TV may have multiple HDMI ports, just select one.;
, Plug one end of the USB power cable into your Chromecast and the other end of the cable into the power supply and then into a nearby power outlet.


The USB power cable and power adapter is included in the box.
If you do not have access to an open outlet, you can also power your Chromecast by plugging the USB power cord directly into an open USB port* on your TV.
 Now, attach the dongle by inserting it into the HDMI port of your choice.
 Power on your TV and press the “Source” button on your TV remote. Switch to the HMDI port number you inserted your Chromecast into.


Once there, you should be greeted by the Chromecast screen.
 On your computer, double-click its icon on your desktop to launch the browser.
 At this point, your TV will instruct you to visit http://chromecast/setup. Follow its advice and download the Chromecast app from the setup page.
 Before you can cast from your Chrome browser to your TV, you need the extension to be installed into your Chrome browser. To do this, head to this address:


https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/google-cast/boadgeojelhgndaghljhdicfkmllpafd?hl
This address should take you the Chrome store link of the extension.
 Now all you need to do is click on the blue “Free” button on the upper-right corner of the extension description window to install it.


The extension should download and install automatically after clicking.
 The Chromecast app will automatically launch; if not, click on Chromecast on your desktop to launch it.
 Both your computer and your TV will display a randomized code. Check that both are showing the same code then click “That’s my code.”

, On your computer, enter your Wi-Fi’s password.


Here, you can name your Chromecast if you want .
 Now that the extension is operational, you can look for a tab you want to cast to your TV. This can be anything as long as it is on one tab in your computer’s Chrome browser.
 Once you are on a tab you want to cast, press the “Cast” button on the Chrome toolbar, which is at the top-right area of the browser with the icons of the extensions you have installed.


It should automatically detect the Chromecast that is connected to your TV.
 Select the extension once more, and it should state your Chromecast name. Click on the Chromecast name to cast the tab to your TV.

