 Most cells of the human body are eukaryotic in its structure. This means that they reproduce by way of cellular division and cellular differentiation. These two processes that characterize cells in the body are prominent feature of the cellular life in humans. The type of cells in the body of humans is a function of the type of tissue that it serves.
 An exception is the circulating cells in the blood such as macrophages and blood cells. Usually cells in the body are organized in clusters of cells that are attached to basement membrane. The main organization of the cells in the solid structures of the body is called a tissue. A tissue is an aggregate or a collection of similar cells that are connected with each other using special form of connection that differs from one type of tissue to another., This type of tissue usually covers the lining of the skin and the lining of the intestine. Other tissues serve different function and are also of different structure on the cellular level., Most cellular processes in the body are under regulatory mechanisms that control their function.Examples of such regulatory systems are the endocrine system and the nervous system. For this reason cells in the body are not autonomic in its function but obey orders by higher biological systems in the body through a signaling process that involves mediators in the form of biochemical compounds that are secreted in response to a particular stimulus., An important type of cells in the body of humans is the cells of the nervous system. The nervous system in humans is one of the most complicated structures in the body. This is so due to its numerous functions that are essential for maintaining a constant environment inside the body. Cells of the nervous system are called neurons and they have completely different function than other cells in the body. Neurons mediate many essential functions in the body such as maintaining a state of consciousness and mental arousal., These cells a very important due to their role in secreting signaling compounds that function to transmit information from one cell to another. These cells are organized in clusters of very organized cells that are called glands. These glands synthesize and secrete specific compounds which are called hormones in response to a stimulus that it receives through a regulatory mechanism that is called feedback loop. The understanding of the mechanisms of these loops is key to the understanding of the process of hormonal function in the body., These cells are unusually developed genetically due to their ability to monitor the body for foreign antigens. The mechanism of action of the immune cells is very complicated but the understanding of its mechanism of action is a purely technical issue that requires only strong memory. The cells of the immune system have astonishing and remarkable ability to recognize and fight microbes and antigenic materials. One type of such cells is called macrophage., Cells of the immune system reproduce by one of two ways either by cellular differentiation as occurs with red blood cells for example. The other possible way of reproduction is through the direct cellular division that is typical of eukaryotic cells in the body., White blood cells are part of the general lymphatic system cells that are obtained by the differentiation process that is typical for this type of cells and for red blood cells., These cells are very specialized and unique in its function. Their important function is manifested by the synthesis of proteins in the body in hepatocytes. In addition hepatocytes synthesize an important group of compounds which are called bile acids. These compounds are important for the proper function of the food digestion in the intestine. Also these cells are the site of amino acids metabolism., This is in addition to cells of the two kidneys and the cells of the adrenal gland. These will be discussed in a separate article.