 If you want to effectively manage conflict with your loved one, then you need to avoid the four forms of negativity that are so lethal to relationships that they are sometimes called "the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse": criticism, contempt, defensiveness, and stonewalling. After observing a couple for only a few hours, scientists can predict with over 94% accuracy whether they will stay together or get divorced if these negative behaviors are not changed. If you find yourself using any of these approaches toward your partner, decide to do something about it before it erodes your love.Avoid criticizing your partner just to get rid of some built-up resentment. Instead, complain without blame by stating a positive need. Talk about your feelings using I statements and then express a positive need. What do you feel? What do you need?
Avoid having contempt for your partner by building a culture of appreciation and respect in your relationship.
Avoid being defensive, and be open to your partner's comments and suggestions. Don't focus on trying to prove that you're right and work on finding a solution with your partner. Accept responsibility, even if for only part of the conflict.
Stonewalling, or refusing to listen to your partner or to give in to their demands even one bit, is one of the worst things you can do in a relationship. The antidote is to practice physiological self-soothing. The first step of physiological self-soothing is to stop the conflict discussion. If you keep going, you'll find yourself exploding at your partner or imploding (stonewalling), neither of which will get you anywhere.
 This will help you and your partner keep things positive while solving a problem together instead of blaming each other, yelling, or hurting each other through comments you don't really mean. You can maintain this ratio of positivity during an argument by avoiding saying things like, "You never..." or "You always..." Don't think in absolutes and focus on the positive aspects of the situation, not the negative, if you want to reach a solution.Talk to your partner as if he or she is an equal. Use “I” statements like “I would appreciate it if we…” instead of “you” statements like “You need to…” That way, the problem becomes “our problem,” not “your problem.”

, Even the best relationships have their problems, and not all of these problems can be resolved. To make your love last, you should accept the problems or find a way to manage them instead of constantly fighting over them to no avail. What matters most is not solving these problems, but being positive and open-minded when they are discussed.The goal in your relationship when discussing these types of problems should be to establish dialogue that communicates acceptance of your partner, while demonstrating humor and affection.
Ultimately, what does count is being able to actively cope with the unresolvable problem rather than treating it as a condition of gridlock. Gridlocked conflict discussions only lead to painful exchanges or icy silence.
 Using a "softened startup," or a more tactful technique to bring up a conflict during a conversation, can go a long way in how your partner views the conflict and how easy it will be to resolve it. To introduce a conflict, you should complain about the situation carefully, without blaming the other person in a vindictive, angry manner. This will lead to a more stable, healthy relationship.


For example, instead of saying, "You said you'd go grocery shopping this afternoon and you completely forgot," say, "I'm really upset that we don't have food in the house right now. I thought we discussed that you would help me out by going shopping this time."
Make statements that start with "I" instead of "You." When you start sentences with "I" you are less likely to seem (or be!) critical. Blame immediately puts your partner in a defensive position, while "I "statements show that you are discussing the impact on your feelings instead.
Avoid eye rolling, crossing your arms, or looking away from your partner. These little angry gestures can make a big difference when a conflict is introduced.
 If you want to make love last, then you have to know that being happy is better than being right. If you're determined to get your way every time you have an argument, then your relationship won't have long-term success. You and your partner should be able to weigh the pros and cons of any decision rationally, and to think about how much the decision means to both of you. In the end, you should be able to satisfy both people instead of just having one person get what he or she wants.


You can also take turns. If you got your way on one big decision, when the next big decision comes around, let your partner decide.
Both people should be willing to compromise in a good relationship. If you end up yielding to your partner because you'd rather avoid the conflict, then you have a problem.
 If you want to make love last, then you should be ready to swallow your pride and to let your partner know that you've made a mistake. Admitting that you're wrong takes courage and will make your partner appreciate your honesty and candor even more. If you know that you are messed up but just want to sweep it under the rug and do better next time, you'll run into trouble down the line.


When you say sorry, you should mean it. Don't just say it because you think it's the right thing to say to make things better.

