 Look for tubes made of sturdy materials, such as PVC. This will ensure that your microscope will hold up over time. The small tube should be just small enough to slide along the inside walls of the large tube.Make each tube approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) long.;
, The functioning of a microscope will be diminished if light enters through the side of the tube. To improve the microscope’s ability to function, line the sides of the tube with black paper. This will help absorb the any excess light.If you use a thick, opaque material such as PVC, the black paper is not necessary.
 Glue a lens on the end of each tube. The diameter of the lens should match the diameter of the tube. Use a moderate amount of glue and make sure not to get it on the inside of the lens. Allow the glue to dry before proceeding.Use lenses with short focal lengths. For example, you could reuse the lenses from disposable 35mm cameras to make a microscope.
 Place the open end of the small tube inside the large tube. You now have a lens at both ends and the ability to move them closer to each other. This allows you to view objects and focus on them using your microscope.Focusing this type of microscope is done by simply sliding the lenses close together or further apart until a clear image is obtained.
 Cover the edges of each lens by gluing on a rubber disc. Be sure that the discs do not cover the center of either lens. This creates a buffer between the lens and other objects. It also makes the microscope more aesthetically pleasing., An eyepiece is not necessary to see objects, but it helps to keep your eye off of the viewing lens. It can also make viewing more comfortable. Use a drill or shop object (e.g. scissors) to make a hole in the bottom of a film canister. The hole should be in the center of the canister and large enough to slide the smallest tube through., Line the smallest tube up with the hole in the canister. Push the tube so that the top (side with the lens) inch is inside the film canister. If the tube will not fit, make the hole larger until it does., Use glue or liquid cement to keep the eyepiece in place. This will allow you to look through the eyepiece without it moving. Give the glue time to dry., Use a square of plywood or plastic to set your base. Use a saw to cut the square to have four inch sides. You want the base to be approximately 0.75 inches (1.9 cm) thick., You can use a wooden cylinder to create a vertical stand. PVC pipe is another option. Cut the vertical stand to be 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) tall. Glue the vertical stand to the base plate., The microscope tube should rest just above the base plate. This will allow you to place samples under the microscope lens. The tube can be secured to the vertical stand with glue or zip ties., Gather a sample and view them under your microscope. You can start by looking at a drop of water, or a piece of hair. You can slide the eyepiece up and down to adjust the focus of the microscope.