 When you are with your loved one, do not let him or her dwell on any possible illness. Do not focus in on any illness and do not let your loved one focus on any supposed illness. You should also not suggest another possible illness that your loved one might have.


If your loved one spends too much time dwelling on any supposed illness, he or she will never get better., When your loved one suffers from hypochondriasis, he or she will be anxious a lot of the time. This means that you can help relieve your loved one's stress and anxiety by doing relaxation techniques with him or her. This includes progressive muscle relaxation, meditation, deep breathing techniques, and anything that can help cam your loved one.Yoga is also a great way to help reduce anxiety related to hypochondriasis. Offer to go to a yoga class with your loved one or do one at his or her house., Being able to constantly check to see what symptoms mean or what illnesses can be caused by them can make your loved one's illness worse. When you are with your loved one, discourage him or her from doing any internet searches about possible symptoms he or she is experiencing.


Suggest your loved one does something else on the computer, like look up a news story or look up movie times instead., Your loved one can help get rid of stomach issues and other physical symptoms that he or she has by taking care of him or herself. You can help come up with exercise plans, eat well when you are around your loved one, suggest healthy sleep patterns, and other healthy lifestyle habits.


This has the added bonus of helping your loved one improve his or her overall health as well., When your loved one has hypochondriasis, you can help keep his or her mind off of his or her anxiety. If your loved one is focusing too much on a symptom or possible sickness that he or she may have, try to change the subject. Start talking about something that interests you both, suggest going for a walk, watch a movie, or anything else that will help get your loved one's mind off of the symptoms.


Your loved one may be resistant to this at first and keep focusing on the symptoms, but keep at it.