 Your personal page is essentially the first impression that users will get of your brand and/or personality. Visitors to this site will usually be your peers, but employers also look at Facebook pages to find out information about you before meeting you in person.


Take advantage of this space to tell a story about yourself by adding personal details and bringing yourself to life.
Upload pictures wisely. Refrain from posting inappropriate pictures that could cost you your reputation. Pictures of you out at the bars noticeably intoxicated can cost you a job opportunity or a potential partnership. If people see these pictures, they may worry about your reliability and seriousness.






Fill your personal page with your interests in a consistent style. To create the image of yourself as a marketable brand, your profile page needs to exude a focused idea. This means essentially creating a persona. For example, if you are an outdoorsy person that climbs mountains and goes to music festivals on the weekends, make sure that not only your music pages and interest pages reflect this, but also that every page you like furthers this notion. For example, you might like the REI Sports and the Coachella Facebook pages.
To further create reliability, upload pictures of yourself doing the things you claim to be interested in.
Keep your contact information and job history up to date. Make it easy for people to find out how to get in touch with you and what your experience looks like so they don't have to go digging for details.
Create a Facebook group for your brand or services to build a community where your clients, partners, and friends can interact. Facebook groups come with specific boards for posting discussion topics, photos, and videos that allow you to quickly send updates to your group members.
Utilize Facebook's "Events" function to spread the word about specific promotional or marketing events for your brand or services. Events allow users to RSVP online and see who else is attending your event. Event pages are also a great way to distribute specific information about your event, such as directions to a venue, content details, and other basic logistical information.
Cross-promote yourself by posting content to your newsfeed that links to work that you've done or articles relevant to your discipline. For example, you might want to link to blogs you've written or news articles about your brand.
Buy an ad and pinpoint your advertising targets on Facebook. If you are directly marketing a business, Facebook offers a service called Flyers Pro, a cost-per-click advertising system that uses keywords to target a specific audience for your advertisement based on qualities such as political views, educational status, and profession.
 LinkedIn has quickly become a hub of online professional networking and many employers are quickly turning to LinkedIn to seek out qualified candidates for open positions.


Showcase the problems you've solved in the past at your various jobs rather than the buzzword duties you completed. Write these accomplishments in the "Description" box of each position you've added to your profile.
Convert your goals into keywords to include on your profile. Other users are directed to your page by keywords, so make sure the words you include on your profile page truly articulate your career accomplishments and goals. For example, if you are a graphic designer, find several ways to explain your skills, such as “build graphics,” “design websites,” or “create visual content.”
Build your connections. Your LinkedIn network is the most important part of your profile for establishing relationships with people in your industry. Add college peers, current and past co-workers, and users in your geographic area and industry.
Get endorsements for your skills. Ask your connections to endorse your particular skills to establish credibility. If you don't feel comfortable asking people to endorse you, spend some time endorsing the skills of connections that you'd like to endorse you. Likely, they'll return the favor.
Upload a professional-looking photo of yourself. Be sure that you are wearing professional attire in your profile photo, that the photo is relatively good quality, and that you have a friendly, sophisticated demeanor in the picture.
 Twitter is a quick way to efficiently disperse short messages comprised of 140 characters or less. Twitter is all about current events and to-the-minute breaking news. Because of the limited space Twitter allows, the way you write your Tweets is extremely important.


Update your Twitter several times per day. In order to gain followers on Twitter, you have to be an extremely active user. Showcase your work accomplishments and projects by linking to clips, relevant articles, and pictures.
Produce strictly professional content if you are looking to market your brand or services specifically. Create one account for professional content and one to keep in touch with friends and family if necessary.
Think carefully about how you write each post. Word choice, grammar, and political correctness are all extremely important when representing yourself on the Internet. Make sure to proofread your tweet for content and grammar before posting it.
That being said, don't comprise creativity or entertainment. It's important to create a following of like-minded individuals. Posting funny copy every once in a while will help you gain such a following.
Retweet from relevant and credible sources. This might include tweets from other users about you, or tweets relevant to your industry or an upcoming event.
 Pinterest is an extremely visual website, with clicks driven mostly by visual content that links to written content. This outlet is ideal if you're marketing a creative, visually stimulating service such as interior design, professional photography, or even flower arrangements or something in the food industry.


Post a short introduction about yourself and your interests in the “About” section on your Pinterest profile. This allows users to find out more about you and your Pinterest presence through words rather than pictures.
Title your boards effectively. The way you organize and title your boards is the main way that you are able to showcase your creativity on Pinterest. Decide whether you want your board titles to be written in catchy, funny copy, or serious, straightforward language.
Steadily pin content to keep followers engaged and show up on the home pages of your followers. This will increase the amount of times that your followers repin the same pages that you have pinned.
Tag other Pinterest users by including their @username in your descriptions. This feature allows you to build a network of users that separates you from other Pinterest users and connects you with like-minded individuals.
Create one board that is dedicated to telling the story of your brand/services/personality through pictures. Make sure that it communicates your personality effectively and attractively in a narrative form.
 Instagram is an almost ubiquitous platform for personal users and companies alike. It is particularly useful for showcasing behind-the-scenes, "happening right now" events. If you are shooting a music video, for example, followers would most likely respond well to a photo that highlights the videographers and artists in candid action, rather than a polished, posed photo.


Use popular hashtags in order to show up in search results, but don't overuse them. Hashtags generate keyword pages where users can browse and find similar photos. For example, if you take a photo of your breakfast smoothie, you might use the hashtags "#breakfast," "#healthyliving," and/or "#fruitsmoothie."
Geotag your location to add another layer of searchable information to your posts.
Participate in Instagram "theme days." While users are creating new theme days almost every day, it's important to stay relevant by posting photos with the appropriate hashtags and content to match the theme day. An extremely popular post is "Throwback Thursday" where users post an old photo and tag it with the hashtag "#tbt".
Be a storyteller. Use your photos not only to show something beautiful or exciting, but to give depth to a larger idea. You can use the caption space to include a quote or explain the significance of the photo for you or your brand.
Run an Instagram contest. If it's a business that you're marketing, photo contests are a great way to engage your followers. Simply create a catchy hashtag that participants can hashtag their entries with and then repost the winner to your Instagram account. You can advertise for a contest by posting a graphic to your own account showcasing and explaining the contest and the relevant hashtag.
 If your business or brand deals with video content, YouTube is the best place to market your services. Just about any company can utilize YouTube to post instructional videos for their products, mission statements for their business, or interviews with their employees. YouTube is also the best place for aspiring musical artists to showcase their talent to a mass audience.


Use this space to interact with your audience in whatever way matches your personality/brand. Create a YouTube channel with a clear theme and purpose.
For bloggers and DIY crafters, YouTube is a great place to post instructional videos. Make your video titles clear and concise in order to show up often in search results.
Respond to other videos. YouTube videos go viral all the time, meaning they are shared and viewed so many times that they become somewhat famous. Making a parody or a response video to one of these viral videos can amass a large amount of views.
 A personal or company blog is an integral part of any online presence because it allows for a limitless space to create original copy. Use this space to provide your followers/subscribers with updates about your professional career, travels, and/or personal life.


Update your blog frequently. You should generally post a new blog a few times per week in order to remain an active presence.
Include photos in your posts. Visual stimulation is just as important as the content contained in your blog post. Make sure to include relevant photos of yourself or what you are writing about to break up the text and keep the reader interested.
Keep your posts under 1,000 words and target a specific audience. In order to keep the attention of your reader and attract loyal followers, keep your posts relatively short so readers find them accessible. Long essays will most likely be off-putting to readers who are skimming the web for quickly consumable content.
Comment on blogs that are related to your marketing purpose in order to attract new contacts. Invite them (or provide a link) to your website.
 Remember that everything you write is a representation of yourself.


Use formal grammar and avoid abbreviations and Internet slang when professionally communicating with co-workers and potential employers.
Sign your emails and newsletters with a professional signature that includes your contact information. Under your name, include your job title, company name, phone number, work address and email so that people can easily find alternative ways to contact you.
Keep subject lines/newsletter headings concise and obvious and don't use fancy fonts. Long, colorful titles and text written in fonts like Papyrus can look like spam to your audience. Keep it simple and get your point across in just a few words.
Time your emails wisely. Emails sent during working hours on weekdays have the best chance of being read immediately.
 Market yourself by using your name as your domain (yourname.com). You may choose to have a static site, or to maintain a blog. Either way, this site should be separate from your business site (if applicable).


When you reserve your domain, you may find that your name has already been taken. If this is the case, try variations like "your-name.com" or "yourname.org."
If you are selling a particular product, your website is the best place for customers to actually purchase your product online. You can use your various social media profiles to promote your home website.

