 While many people have never heard of selective mutism or may have trouble identifying it, others might assume a loved one has SM when in fact another condition is causing the communication issues. For instance, autism spectrum disorder or another mental health or physical issue may be at the root of the symptoms. Only a professional diagnosis can confirm or rule out SM.Diagnosing SM usually involves a coordinated effort by a group of professionals. The diagnosis normally starts with a visit to the primary care physician, followed by a referral to a speech and language pathologist (SLP). The SLP will look over reports, observe the person, and conduct other tests to diagnose SM. A psychiatrist or other mental health professional may also be called in to assist with the diagnosis and treatment plan.
 There is no “quick fix” for SM, and expecting immediate improvements or getting upset when nothing seems to be changing will not help you or your loved one. SM is overcome through a slow, steady process of identifying sources of anxiety, developing coping mechanisms, and formulating helpful communication strategies.The approach can literally be represented by a diagram of a set of steps, each representing a new stage of the process of overcoming SM. An early step may involve working on nonverbal communication (gestures, etc.) in social situations, moving up to speaking in short (“yes” or “no”) responses or whispering longer responses, to finally speaking more fully and clearly in an anxiety-producing situation.
Consult the team of professionals treating your loved one to identify and work through the steps best suited for his or her condition.
 SLPs who deal with selective mutism cases often draw from a common group of treatment strategies, albeit ones that should be individualized for the patient. These are often forms of behavioral therapy, akin to the cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) that may be utilized by a mental health professional. Treatments may include, for instance:stimulus fading — this involves starting out in a comfortable situation and slowly adding less comfortable components. For instance, you might practice conversations with the person one-on-one in a school classroom, and slowly over time add additional people to the mix.
shaping — this utilizes nonverbal communication as a gateway to verbal communication. A person might practice “discussing” a topic using only gestures, writing, drawing, etc., then make sounds or use simple words that relate to the topic, then eventually communicate about it verbally.
self modeling — this technique uses video recordings of the person speaking with others as a training tool. In essence, the person becomes his or her own teacher.
 As it is a diagnosed anxiety disorder, SM can sometimes be effectively treated with prescription medications (alongside therapy and other treatments). Most commonly, antidepressants (such as Prozac) are used to deal with the underlying anxieties.Take note that antidepressants can have serious side effects, especially in children. They can, for instance, increase suicidal thoughts in some young people.Talk to your loved one’s doctor or psychiatrist (or ask your loved one to do so) about your questions and concerns.

