 It's important to like what you buy. Carpet can be a big purchase, and it's not something you will replace every year.


Measure the area or room that you plan to buy carpet for. If the carpet is wall to wall, be precise with your measurements. Depending on where you buy your carpet, the retailer may send an installer out to recheck the measurements before finalizing your order.;
,, Carpet sales are hit or miss. There is no special time of year that carpet goes on sale. Generally, outlets and warehouses offer discounted quality carpet any time of year.



If you will be installing the carpet in a heavily traveled area, such as a hallway, you may want to buy carpet that is darker in color or a multi-colored carpet. Both work well in hiding dirt and stains.
On the other hand, if you are putting your new carpet in the master bedroom you may want to go with a lighter color to keep the room bright and cherry.
 What is the level of activity for the room? How long should the carpet last? Do you have children and pets, and if so, will the carpet be a good selection for them?


For high-traffic areas you may want to consider something that will wear well and withstand heavy traffic, such as a looped Berber or a twist friezes carpet.
 See how they look with your furniture, curtains, drapes and especially your lighting. Be sure to open the curtains or drapes to see how the carpet looks in natural sunlight.
 There are 3 different types of padding on the market, fiber, sponge and foam rubber. Have the salesperson explain the differences between all 3.
 Once you're satisfied that you have found the perfect carpet, ask a salesperson to order it.


Determine what payment method works best for you to pay for your carpet. Many stores offer an in-house financing program. You can also pay by check, cash or a low-interest credit card.
Give a deposit. Carpet companies require a deposit before they will place any orders. The deposit will vary depending on the company.
Inquire about the installation. Ask the salesperson to provide you with a price for the installation, along with a date for carpet installation.
 If you have any questions about what it does or does not cover, talk to the carpet seller.

