 When you hear a name, try to associate it with a visual image in your mind. For example, with someone named "Misty, " picture a misty mountain or stream or the mist in the early morning. These types of associations can go a long way to helping your memorization., If you don't have time to write a name down, imagining the spelling can be helpful. You need to say and sound out the letters of the name, if possible. Of course, you don't want to just start spelling, as that will make you look a little weird. Rather, ask about the spelling, and repeat the spelling back to the person.As you say each letter, see it in your mind as well.
Try to make each letter dance or move a little as you visualize it, which can also help with recall.
Another tactic is to visualize it written out somewhere familiar, like a dry erase board., If you know someone with the same name as the person you're being introduced to, take a moment to connect those two people in your mind, so you are better able to remember the new person's name.Say you're meeting someone named "Mary," and you already a know a Mary. Picture the Mary you know in your head (just her face), maybe even dancing around a bit.
Add the new person's head next to the one you know. You can even have the new person's head bounce in time with the person you know.
 As you begin talking to a new person, try to pick out something unusual about the person's appearance. You could love the person's abundantly curly hair or associate the person with their dimples. Maybe you notice the person's brilliantly blue eyes. Try to help the person's name stick by focusing on an unusual feature., Another visual technique to help your memory is to create a picture of the person in your mind with something they're associated with. For instance, if you meet Mike who enjoys mountain climbing, picture him standing on top of a mountain (in his suit, to make it more ridiculous), speaking into a microphone (mic) like it's an open-mic night at the coffee shop.The sillier the image you create, the better. Out-of-the-ordinary situations will help it stick better.
 It's also helpful to combine techniques, such as making a visual association and using an unusual feature. Once you latch onto an unusual feature and figure out a visual associate with the name, try to connect the two through an action.For example, if you meet a Vicky, that you associate with Vick's Vapor Rub, visualize someone smearing it over the unusual feature, such as her curly hair.
Once again, the wackier the association is, the more likely you are to remember it.
Don't forget to go over it more than once to really solidify it.
 Some people use what's sometimes known as a "memory palace" to remember things, including names. To create a memory palace, use somewhere you are familiar with in the real world that has multiple rooms or defined spaces, such as your house. Start by visualizing just 5 of those rooms or spaces. In each space, pick 5 pieces of furniture or items, and number them off in a logical way. When you want to remember something, place it in the memory palace.For example, maybe you want to remember Jon who enjoys trampolines. Visualize him jumping up and down on your bed in your memory palace.

