 Don't act afraid of everything. Walk confidently, say everything confidently, and leave with dignity when you get something wrong. Just make sure the confidence doesn't turn to cockiness.;
, If you're always slouching, people will start to think that you're not in a good mood, sad, or mad. Look approachable and sit up straight. You might think that people don't notice these little things, but they do.
 Girls think acting dumb is cute, but it's really not. Guys dig smart girls. Don't go around showing off your knowledge, but don't be ditzy.
 Being a pessimist is not being a realist––it's overstating the negative, all of the time and it drags everyone down. Even if something goes wrong, just say, "It could have been worse" and start working on solving it instead of milking it for the bad. If someone is having a bad day, be positive around them, and point out the good things. Don't brag about your perfect day, or sulk about your horrible day.


You can vent to a friend in private or in public. Just don't be openly negative.
 Don't make fun of others, or vandalize property. Be respectful of people's feelings, and property. If you went a little too far, and you know it, just apologize. If you really care, and respect your own self-image, then you'll apologize.
 This can be tough for some people. Lying might always seem like the way out, but it eventually will come back to you. It's better to just tell the truth from the start.
 People like to know that you are genuinely interested in what they're saying. When listing to someone, make eye contact, and really pay attention to them. Don't be checking your phone, or talking to some one else.
 Tell jokes! But make sure your jokes are actually jokes, and not to hurt some ones feelings. If people know they can laugh with you, they'll like you more. If you trip in gym, laugh along with your classmates. A girl who can laugh at herself can be respected. If you feel a little hurt, it's okay. That's natural, but know when your peers are going too far. Never accept insults as if they're true.
 Don't hide things from others. It's okay to keep your private thoughts from other people, but if it's worth sharing, share it.
 Ask questions, but don't be nosy. Don't always talk about your self, and try not to one-up people.
 This means being a shoulder to cry on, a friend to laugh with, and a person to vent to. Be aware of other people's feelings, and help others. They will appreciate it, and recognize that you're a good friend.
 For example, help a friend out every once in a while, or greet them in a nice way. You can compliment people, but don't do it just to get them to like you, do it genuinely.
 You don't have to be friends with everyone, just be friendly. For example, if the most annoying kid in school sits next to you on the bus, smile, and greet them politely. That doesn't mean you have to be their best friend, just try not to be mean. If people know you won't be mean, they'll like you more.


Be nice to everyone. If you're going to be popular, then that means that you're going to be nice to everyone, even those that you don't much like. If someone's giving you a hard time, Just say "Hi. How was your day?" It works every time. Just a little compliment will lighten up someone's day.
 If you keep promises and secrets, then people will know you are trust worthy. If you break your friends' trust, it will take a long time to build it up again. Being trustworthy isn't just about the truth. It's also about how you react. Don't be too judgmental about your friends' choices, and don't nitpick at things.
 If your friend is overreacting to something, it might be because she's just had a bad day, or something is going on. In that case, ask your friend if she is okay.

