 A writing prompt can take any number of forms. It can be a specific scenario, such as a scene from everyday life or something a little bit fantastical.


For instance, the prompt could be something of this nature: "You open your closet door to find your clothes aren't there anymore. Instead, you see horse-drawn carriages and people walking in what appears to be London. What happens next?"
It could be an old postcard, where you write about something related to the picture. It could be an intriguing quote (such as "Half the lies they tell about me aren't true." by Yogi Berra) or even a snippet of someone else's writing.;
, Though a writing prompt is a good starting place, you don't have to follow the prompt exactly. Once you begin writing, let your ideas take you where you want to go.


That is the whole point of writing prompts — to get you writing, but still allow you to develop your own ideas.
 Right now, you probably just want to generate ideas. Some of what you write at this stage will be awful, and that's okay — it's supposed to be. However, you should also be able to come up with some really great ideas if you just let your mind wander a little.


Don't think too hard about what you should be writing — just write. Try to turn off the really analytical part of your brain that wants to edit as you go.
 Always remember that what you're writing doesn't need to be perfect, especially in a first draft. The spelling doesn't need to be free of typos, and each sentence doesn't need to fit perfectly with the next one.


If you expect your writing to be perfect before you ever put it on the page, you will never write anything. Instead, you'll be plagued by crippling writer's block.
Writing takes revision, and the first draft isn't the time to be thinking about editing.
 Once you've spent time generating ideas and free writing, consider how you can develop the ideas you generated.


Maybe you just want to use a short passage and develop it into a larger story. Maybe you came up with several ideas that will work for a series of poems. Maybe you have a nearly complete story that just needs some revision.
Circle ideas you like. If you really like a paragraph, but it doesn't fit in to what else is going on in your writing, keep it in a word document for later. You might just be able to use it somewhere else.
 Once you feel like you have a story or poem, take the time to revise, revise, revise. Look for typos and misspelled words. Think about how you put sentences together. Read it aloud; does it sound weird or out-of-place in some parts? You'll probably want to rewrite those parts.


Don't forget to have someone else read over your work — they can give you invaluable feedback and catch mistakes that you missed.
The point of the writing prompt is to get you started, but to be a good writer you also need the drive to keep going and the patience to revise once you have a draft story or poem.
 Writing a story or poem with a group of people can help you go places you wouldn't think of on your own. Someone in the group will have a widely different perspective from you. Bouncing ideas off of each other will only help you to grow as a writer. To use writing prompts in a group:


Start a story together, with everyone throwing out ideas and one person writing. Alternatively, you can brainstorm ideas together, then write on your own; have someone read the writing prompt, and someone to write on a chalkboard. Have everyone else throw out ideas for the person writing.
Once you're finished brainstorming, everyone can break off to write their own ideas based on the prompt and brainstorming.
Another method is to have one person start writing from a prompt and then having each person read and contribute to the next section, all done without speaking.
 Not every prompt will be the perfect one for you. Everybody has different tastes, and while one kind of prompt is not better than another in a general sense, one kind of prompt may work better for you.


If you've given it a good amount of time (at least fifteen minutes), trying using a different one. Sometimes a particular prompt just won't be the right fit.
 For example, a quote like this one from Virginia Woolf can be used as a starting place:


"What is the meaning of life? That was all — a simple question; one that tended to close in on one with years, the great revelation had never come. The great revelation perhaps never did come. Instead, there were little daily miracles, illuminations, matches struck unexpectedly in the dark; here was one."
For a prompt like this one, the starting place could be what the "little daily miracle" is. The point is to use it as inspiration to begin writing. When using a writing prompt, start writing as soon as something sparks your curiosity, letting it lead you into the writing process.
 You can actually use the same prompt over and over, if you try attacking the prompt in a different way each time.


To do this, try thinking about each of your senses (touch, sound, smell, etc) in turn, or use a narrative voice you wouldn't normally consider. Maybe you've never been to war, but you want to imagine a war scenario from different perspectives using a writing prompt.
Maybe the prompt is something like "Your country has just entered World War III. How are you involved?" You could write about being a soldier, but you could also write about being a spouse at home, the president sending people to war, or a person on the other side. In other words, write from a different perspective each time. You may even be able to develop the pieces into a series, as they will likely share common characteristics.

