 This constant is different for each compound, so you'll need to look it up on a chart in your textbook or online. Because these values are determined experimentally, they can vary widely between charts, so it's best to go with your textbook's chart if it has one. Unless otherwise specified, most charts assume you are working at 25ºC (77ºF).


For example, if you're dissolving lead iodide, or PbI2, write down its product solubility constant. If referring to the chart at bilbo.chm.uri.edu, use the constant 7.1×10–9.
 First, determine how the compound splits apart into ions when it dissolves. Next, write an equation with the Ksp on one side and the constituent ions on the other.


For example, a molecule of PbI2 splits into the ions Pb2+, I-, and a second I-. (You only need to know or look up the charge on one ion, since you know the total compound will always have a neutral charge.)
Write the equation 7.1×10–9 = 2


, Rewrite the equation as a simple algebra problem, using what you know about the number of molecules and ions. Set x equal to the amount of the compound that will dissolve, and rewrite the variables representing the numbers of each ion in terms of x.


In our example, we need to rewrite 7.1×10–9 = 2

Since there is one lead ion (Pb2+) in the compound, the number of dissolved compound molecules will be equal to the number of free lead ions. So we can set to x.
Since there are two iodine ions (I-) for each lead ion, we can set the number of iodine atoms equal to 2x.
The equation is now 7.1×10–9 = (x)(2x)2


, Skip this step if you are dissolving the compound in pure water. If the compound is being dissolved into a solution that already contains one or more of the constituent ions (a "common ion"), however, the solubility is significantly decreased.The common ion effect is most notable in compounds that are mostly insoluble, and in these cases you can assume that the vast majority of the ions at equilibrium come from the ion already present in the solution. Rewrite the equation to include the known molar concentration (moles per liter, or M) of the ions already in the solution, replacing the value of x you used for that ion.For example, if our lead iodide compound was being dissolved in a solution with 0.2 M lead chloride (PbCl2), we would rewrite our equation as 7.1×10–9 = (0.2M+x)(2x)2. Then, since 0.2M is such a higher concentration than x, we can safely rewrite it as 7.1×10–9 = (0.2M)(2x)2.
 Solve for x, and you'll know how soluble the compound is. Because of how the solubility constant is defined, your answer will be in terms of moles of the compound dissolved, per liter of water. You may need a calculator to find the final answer.


The following is for solubility in pure water, not with any common ions.
7.1×10–9 = (x)(2x)2

7.1×10–9 = (x)(4x2)
7.1×10–9 = 4x3

(7.1×10–9) ÷ 4 = x3

x = ∛((7.1×10–9) ÷ 4)
x = 1.2 x 10-3 moles per liter will dissolve. This is a very small amount, so you know this compound is essentially insoluble.

