 Use your imagination in achieving this or see the image above.;
, If you choose the tank top, you might consider wearing a floaty silky shirt. This makes a very good effect. If you are more sporty, wear a striped shirt under it. Grey and red is a good combo or grey and blue. The leotard will carry itself without other additions clothing-wise but you might like to decorate it as in the image above.
 Select matching colors with your outfit.
 If you prefer the pixie look, prefer tighter pants and leggings instead of a billowy skirt. Wear ballet flats either way.
 As a base for your eyes: put a dab of liquid concealer on your eyelids, blend all over with a brush, then set with the same powder.
 Do not blend up to your browbone, you want to look very subtle. Then brush shimmery pale pink shadow on the inside corner of your eye.
 Use either black or dark brown.


Add a little mascara to the end of your eyelashes in the corners. Next to the corners in your eyes, add a little cosmetic glitter. Do be careful not to get it in your eyes! Unlike fairy dust, this will irritate. Apply a little foundation slightly darker than your skin and a light blush pink blush.
 Only line the very end of your lid.
 Don't slather on foundation though. Get a good liquid concealer and apply it to any dark circles and blemishes you have, then blend it with a wide, flat brush. Add powder that's a little lighter than your skin tone to set the look.
 Suck in your cheeks and apply the bronze along your cheekbones. Then smile and put the blush on the apples of your cheeks.
 Put on the lip balm, then get some gold shadow on your finger and pat it on the center of your lower lip, then your upper lip.
 If your head is round, wear earrings that are the opposite to your head shape. Round earrings will make your head rounder, not giving the slighter look of a fairy or pixie.
, If you see someone getting bullied, stand up for them.


If you see your friend unhappy just ask why and try to figure things out.
Don't get involved in fights or be mean to others.
 Try to get as much education as possible.
, Point out the flowers and wildlife around you. Take time to kneel down and touch flowers, rub stone sculptures, and try to be an environmentalist.

