 Before you can start creating glitter tears, you will want to put on a base layer of makeup on your skin, as well as eyeshadow and eyeliner. Glitter tears are essentially an extension of your regular eye makeup. Pick a colour for your eyeshadow that will match with the glitter you are using to create tears. This will pull your eye makeup together creating a dramatic look.






;
, Before adding the glitter, you can draw faint lines under your eyes using eyeshadow. You can also put a bit of eyeshadow immediately under your eye. These lines should be situated where the glitter will be placed. Try using one of the lighter colours that you used for your eyeshadow. This will help give the glitter a light background colour and will allow them to stand out even more.
 You can create subtle glitter tears, by placing a fine glitter directly under your eyes. Use a glitter eyeliner, such as Urban Decay Heavy Metal Glitter Eyeliner or Burberry’s Shimmer Dust. This is a very fine glitter that does not require an adhesive and comes in a variety of colours. Depending on the look you are going for you can apply a thin line of fine glitter under your entire eye or just in certain areas.








The glitter immediately under your eye is meant to look like the pool of wetness that often develops when you are crying.
Pair these subtle tears with smudged black eye makeup to make it appear as though you have actually been crying.
 For a more dramatic look you can actually apply glitter in small tear spots running down your face. Always put more glitter closer to your eye and less glitter as you move down your cheek. This will mimic more closely the look of real tears. Glitter tears can be applied in a variety of different shapes.








For instance, you can create long streaks of glitter tears that run down the entire face or put a few tears that drip down the face, stopping at the cheek.
Be creative and don’t be too precise with the glitter. In order to achieve the look, you want to be slightly haphazard with the application of glitter., For a dramatic effect, you can use different sizes and colours of glitter. For example, begin with fine pieces of glitter and then add larger pieces, and then finally you can add small gems. You can also use a variety of colours. For instance, you may want to use silver and white glitter as the dominant base and then add some pink and purple. Alternatively, you could stick to one colour like gold and just provide a light dusting.









If you want to apply a few gems or a heavier glitter, you may need to use a makeup adhesive first. These can be purchased anywhere makeup is sold.Apply glitter using your finger or a small makeup brush.
 There are many different types of glitter tear looks that you can achieve. In order to create a custom look that works with your personality, style or costume, search online. You can complete an online image search for “glitter tears”, or you can follow the glitter tears hashtag on Instagram for examples.Some different glitter tear looks include bold and thick tears or a subtle sparkle under the eye.
 Once you have finished applying the glitter tears, you can put on mascara or false eyelashes. False eyelashes are often much darker and thicker than your regular eyelashes and they will likely stand out more fully. Because you are wearing so much dramatic eye makeup, false eyelashes are likely preferable, but a dark mascara can also work.
 Glitter can be difficult to work with and often gets all over the place. While applying glitter tears you may accidentally get some on your forehead, chin, or anywhere that you don’t want the glitter to be. In order to remove unwanted glitter or fallout from your face, take a small piece of tape and tap the glitter. It will stick to the tape and be easily removed from your face, without disturbing the rest of your makeup.
 When creating glitter tears, you want your eyes to be the focal point of your look. As a result, you should use a light pink or nude lip colour. A light lip colour will help your eyes stand out even more.
 At the end of the night it is very important that you remove all makeup, including glitter tears, before going to bed. This will help reduce your chances of developing unwanted acne and will keep your face clean and fresh. In order to remove glitter from your skin, use a natural oil, such as coconut oil.








Dip your fingers in the coconut oil and rub in a gentle circular motion over the area with glitter.
 Once you have applied a natural oil to the glitter, wipe your entire face using a water-soaked cotton pad. This will help to remove the adhesives and any excess glitter. Lightly rub the pad across your face, so that you do not irritate your skin.
 Finally, you should wash your entire face using warm water and a gentle cleanser. This can be the same as your regular cleansing routine and will help to remove the rest of the makeup from your face, including your eye makeup.









Pat your face dry using a towel.

