 This mixture will be used to stain the paper so that it has a more ‘warn-money’ look. Use about 3 tablespoons of coffee (all though a little more or a little less will not really make too much of a difference.) You can also add a few drops of green food dye to give you paper a more olive-y look.









You can also use tea to dye your fake money. Make a pot of black tea--it doesn’t matter what kind so long as it is black tea. Brew it for a bit longer than you normally would brew drinking tea (so let it sit for five or more minutes.) The extra time will make the tea a bit darker in color.;
, Make sure to evenly coat both sides of the paper so that there is a more uniform color throughout your money. However, try to dip the paper as quickly (and evenly) as possible to reduce the chance of potentially ripping the paper because it is too soggy.
 Make sure none of the pieces are overlapping (which means you may have to do one piece of paper at a time.) Place the paper and plate in the microwave and heat the paper for 20 seconds. Take it out and test it--if it is still damp, place it back in the microwave for another 20 seconds.









If you would prefer not to use a microwave, you can simply let the paper air dry. Lay the paper out flat on something that you do not mind getting wet (such as on a baking sheet.) You could also hang the paper up on a clothes line.
 There are two ways to do this. You can either print out images of currency, or draw them onto the paper yourself. Be aware that while printing images of money will look more realistic, there are certain limitations you must abide by so that you do not break the law. Your printed fake money can only be one-sided and less than three-fourths the size of real currency.









To print your fake money: Place your dyed paper into your printer. Select the image you would like to print and print it out. Know that it must be three-fourths the size of a real dollar. Learn how to resize images on the computer here.


To draw the details: Use real money as a reference. Choose the amount of currency you would like to create and place it in front of you. Trace around a real dollar to create the outline of your fake dollar so that it is the right size. Draw the details of the front of the dollar onto your fake dollar.
 Use a scanner to duplicate your drawing or printed-out money. Make sure to load the scanner/printer with your dyed pieces of paper.









If you forget to load the printer with your dyed paper, you can dye the paper you printed your images on by dipping them back in the coffee mixture and putting them in the microwave again. Be aware that the ink used to make the details of the money may run if you do this.
 Now that you have multiple bills, cut them out with scissors. You could also use a paper cutter to ensure that your bills are all cut the same size and that the cuts are straight.
 Only do this if you are wanting to create a stack of fake bills. You can purchase cash straps at office supply stores or banks. If you do not want to buy them, you can use thick rubber bands. Write the name of a fake bank (or a real one even) on the wide rubber band.








