 Children and adolescents should get 60 minutes of physical activity each day in order to lead a healthy lifestyle. Provide your child with opportunities to engage in physical activity. For example, sign them up for dance classes, or a team-based sporting activity. Even hanging on the monkey bars or playing tag with friends counts as physical activity.Model healthy habits for them. This means that you eat healthy around them and exercise regularly so that they can see what a healthy lifestyle is like.
Take part in physical activities as a family. For example, go for a hike or bike ride together, or spend time playing at a local park.
Make sure that they do not overtrain in a single sport. Watch for fatigue, trouble sleeping, and lack of motivation.
 Children require plenty of fruits, vegetables, grains, and protein in their diet. Because their bodies are still growing they should have more calcium than adults to help with bone growth. Ensure they get approximately 1,300 milligrams of calcium each day. In order to promote the development of a healthy diet:Introduce your child to a wide variety of foods.
Avoid eating too much fast food. This should be a treat, not a regular occurrence.
Monitor their intake of sweets, candies, and refined sugars.
Older children can help out with grocery shopping and cooking. Include them in meal planning, and teach them how to make their own food. This will foster healthy eating habits as they grow up.
 Sleep is extremely important to your child’s overall well-being and it will help them to stay focused throughout the school day. Sleep is also important to the immune system and can actually help to prevent illness. Children between the ages of 5 and 12 need approximately 10-11 hours of sleep each night. Some children will need more sleep than others. Here are some tips to help them get a good night of sleep:Set a firm bedtime and stick to the same time every night.
Create a bedtime routine. This will help them wind down from the day and prepare their minds and body for sleep.
Avoid foods and drinks that contain caffeine prior to bed.
Don’t allow a TV in their room. Make sure they don’t watch something scary before going to bed.
Don’t let your children do homework or play in their bed. Make sure it is reserved for sleeping. This way they will associate their bed with sleep and it will be easier for them to fall asleep each night.

