 If you want to quit smoking, you have to keep your body active so that you have less time to think about indulging in a craving. Keeping your body active can not only keep you feel healthier, but will help you replace your smoking routine with other routines. Here's what to do:


Keep your mouth active. Drink lots of water, tea, juice, or anything to keep your mind occupied. Chew gum or suck on mints when you need to.
Keep your hands busy. Squeeze a stress-relieving ball, doodle, play with your phone, or find another way to keep your hands busy so you don't end up reaching for a cigarette.
Get some exercise. If you don't have an exercise routine, pick one up. Working out for just 30 minutes a day can make your body and mind feel more fit and relaxed.
Go for walks. This is a great thing to do, especially when you have a craving.
 If you're trying to quit smoking, it's not the time to hole up alone in your room, or you'll find it much harder to keep your mind off of having another cigarette. Take this as the opportunity to spend more time with your friends and family, and you'll not only be distracted from smoking, but you'll be happier.Accept more invitations. Take this as an opportunity to go to more events, even if you've avoided them in the past.
Invite a friend out for coffee, a walk, or a drink. Turn an acquaintance or a casual friend into a closer friend by taking the time to chat. Try to invite them to an activity that won't lead to one of your triggers.
When you hang out with friends and family, open up about how you're trying to quit. This will make you feel less alone and more supported.
Do something fun that involves activity. Go to a yoga class with a friend, go out dancing, or invite a friend for a hike or a trip to the beach to go swimming.
Remember to avoid temptation while you're being socially active. Don't go to parties where everyone is smoking or spend all of your time with your friends who are die-hard smokers, because that will make you much more likely to smoke. Find new ways to be socially active if you need to.
 This is a must. Once you know your trigger points, it's important to avoid any situations that will lead you into a relapse, or which will make it almost impossible for you to do anything but think about smoking. Here's how to do it:Try to avoid hanging out with other smokers as much as you can. Of course, if one of your best friends is a smoker, just have a serious conversation about it, and try to minimize your time around the friend when s/he is actually smoking.
Avoid the places where you used to buy cigarettes. If you can't go to your usual grocery store or drive by the convenience store where you buy your cigarettes without wanting to buy a pack, avoid your usual route and find new stores.
Avoid situations where you tend to smoke. If you always smoke when you hang outside the mall, go to a certain restaurant, or go out to clubs, try to cut those situations out of your routine.
 Finding a new healthy "addiction" to replace your smoking habit can help you refocus your energies and be more excited about your new routine instead of feeling like you're just slogging through your days without smoking. Here are some great hobbies or interests to pursue:


Do something with your hands. Try writing a short story or a poem, or take a pottery or art class.
Try running. If you set a goal to run a 5K or even a 10K, you'll be so focused on your new training plan that you won't have time to think about smoking all the time.

Be adventurous. Try hiking or mountain biking. Do something completely out of your comfort zone that will take your mind off cigarettes.
Find a new love for food. Though you shouldn't replace your cigarette cravings with food cravings, you should take the time to appreciate food and to maybe even learn how to cook. Notice how much better everything tastes now that you're not smoking.

