 He or she can help design a diet that will work for you. It's important to have multiple options that sound good to you. Don't just cut out foods -- find new foods that will help you deal with the disease. Keep in mind that changing your diet is an ongoing project, and you might need to meet with your doctor or dietitian multiple times to get it right.;
, This is because fats reduce the rate at which foods are digested. Fatty foods include many meats, cheeses, crackers and chips, pastries, and creamy sauces. Instead, stick to low-fat options like:


Cottage cheese
Nonfat yogurt
Egg whites
Lean meats (poultry, lean cuts like rounds and loins)
Fresh fruits and vegetables that can be pureed.
 Fiber usually contains oligosaccharides which are elements of food that are generally hard for your stomach to digest. This is because your stomach may not have the enzyme that digests these compounds so the food remains intact in your large intestine and rectum. A low-fiber diet can cause constipation, so you will want to discuss this diet with your doctor before reducing your fiber. It may be more appropriate to eat small amounts of fiber throughout the day or eat more soluble fiber instead. Low-fiber foods include:Ground meat
Tofu
Fish
Eggs
Milk
White bread
White rice
Canned vegetables

, Pureed foods are much easier for your stomach to digest than whole, chunky foods. Always check the pureed foods for large lumps of food that might be hard for your stomach to break down. Make smoothies with fresh fruits and vegetables. , Because your stomach has a hard time digesting food, you might find it easier to drink calorie-rich liquids. These drinks can include evaporated milk and protein shakes, both of which can replenish your stores of protein. You also might want to consider drinking clear soups and broth, which can replenish electrolytes and provide nutrients, and electrolyte rich drinks (like sports drinks or Pedialyte).
 Ginger has properties that aid digestion. It contains gingerol and shogaol, two substances that are believed to increase gastric juices and secretions that are necessary for digestion. Try to drink one cup of ginger tea each day. To make ginger tea:


Slice up a three ounce piece of ginger.
Boil 3 cups of water.
Mix 3 ounces of ginger into the boiling water and steep for 10 to 15 minutes.
Allow it to cool down a little and drink.
 Peppermint contains two active ingredients, menthol and menthone, that have been known to help the stomach muscle relax. They can also cause the stomach to increase more bile, which helps to digest fat. To make peppermint tea:


Gather some peppermint leaves and tear them apart so that menthol and other essential components are produced.
Boil 2 tablespoons of peppermint leaves in 3 cups of water.
Steep for 10 to 15 minutes.
Allow to cool down and drink.
 Even though these are liquids, they do not add nutrients to your diet. It does not hydrate you but at the same time fills you up -- a bad combination for gastroparesis.