 Don't pass them and don't talk to them. This does not mean be scared and hide, but things will only get worse if you cross their path. If you are in class, ask to be seated far away where they can't hurt you, physically or mentally.
 Do not show the bullies that you feel hurt if they do something that makes you uncomfortable; just walk off. Bullies gain satisfaction from making others feel hurt or uncomfortable, so giving them a reaction may only encourage them further. Instead, make them look silly by just leaving them to it, they'll find themselves shouting horrible things for no real reason.
 The tactic of not reacting to a bully may backfire initially, depending on the bully. Read the situation carefully. Some will feel safe tormenting you, as they enjoy that action itself, if they see that you aren't suffering from their actions. However, given a little time, such as days and weeks, most bullies will give up because your deadpan reaction becomes boring and they realize that they truly can't break you. Keep with it!

, Walk away with dignity, saying you have better things to do with your time. And mean it; fill your time with things you enjoy doing, as it serves as a great distraction and builds your talents instead of wasting time worrying about the meaningless taunts of unkind people.
 This step ties into the next, so be sure to read them both very carefully. A good way to end bullying is to catch them out. You catch out different bullies in different ways. Since you have already identified the type of bully (see above), you just need to identify the way to sort them out, as follows:


Aggressive bullies: Aggressive bullies are probably the scariest, however that doesn't mean that you shouldn't report them. Catching out an aggressive bully is also pretty easy. They'll probably be trying to hurt you as much as they can, leaving bruises and cuts everywhere. Simply show these bruises to an authority figure and you're sorted. Also, if you know that they always get you at a certain place, you could get that authority figure to hide and watch or get a close mate to hide and film it. Give the film to whoever you're reporting them to. Make sure they record it with your device. That way, they can't show other people because you have the footage.






Taunting bullies: To catch out a taunting bully, you could record them saying something mean with a sound recorder or phone. Simply keep the recorder hidden in a pocket while they shout mean things. Make sure the recorder is well hidden and don't accidentally say anything mean to them, as you could get into trouble too. When you go to report them, play the recording back. Try to get one with good sound quality so it can be easily heard by those you're asking for help from.






Cyber bullies: Cyber bullies send messages through texts or social network sites such as Facebook. If they're texting you, save the texts and show somebody. If they're bullying you online, you can do two things. The first thing is to save the messages then ask to log on and show the person that you're telling once you get to their office. The other, simpler, way, is to screenshot the mean messages and print them all off. That way, it can't go missing. Print a copy off for yourself too. Keep dates and times where possible, to verify the extent of the bullying behavior.







