 Look for a kid-sized table and chair set. Set it up in a corner of your yard. The tables can be made new, purchased from a garage sale, or even built if you are particularly handy. Kids can sit at these tables to color, eat, or play with their toys on nice days.If you have extra room, look for an adult-sized table and chairs to put next to the table for kids.
 A chalkboard can be a great activity for kids that won’t take up a lot of space. A chalkboard can be attached to fence with a hammer and nails, or set up on a stand. The size of the chalkboard you use depends on the amount of space you have. Look for a chalkboard that is big enough for at least two children to draw on. A chalkboard can be purchased from a crafts store, or even a school supply shop.Set out a bucket of chalks and erasers next to the chalkboard. Bring it in during the night or when it rains.
 A sandbox can be a fun activity for children during the warmer months of the year. For a small yard, look for a small sandbox that can easily fit into a corner. If you can’t find a sandbox, one can be made out of a plastic or wooden box that isn’t very high on the sides. Purchase sand to fill the sandbox, and put in a few toys to play with, like buckets and shovels.Look for a cover to put over the sandbox for rainy weather.
 A kiddie pool can be placed in another corner, or next to the sandbox. If there is not enough room, you can opt to choose a kiddie pool over the sandbox. Kiddie pools can be purchased at most toy stores and supermarkets with a toy section. Look for one of the smallest pools you can find. It shouldn’t take up too much space.You can set out a sprinkler instead of a kiddie pool if you have limited space in your yard.
Fill it with water from the garden hose whenever your kids want to use it.
 A yard can get messy with children playing in it. Put out a box with a lid for their toys. Any type of box will do, though a plastic or wooden box is ideal because it can withstand weather. Ask your kids to put their outside toys into it when they are done playing.