 Approach your friends, family, and acquaintances about issues you’re passionate about. Your goal should be to make them care about that issue. Think about their experiences, sympathies, and temperaments so you can craft an appeal that’s most likely to succeed.For example, imagine your uncle is a police officer in a poor area. The issue you care about is education. If you want to get him to care about education in the same way you do, talk to him about how lack of educational opportunities contributes to crime. You could open by saying something like this: “You know they just cut funding for afterschool programs in Sandtown? Better get ready to start chasing kids all over the city. Kids with nothing to do get in trouble.”
It’s easier to influence someone’s opinion about a new subject than it is to change their mind about something. Talk with them about unfamiliar subjects or approach new subjects in unfamiliar ways.
 Social media platforms like Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook can be a great way to raise awareness of an issue. These tools allow you to reach large audiences with relatively little effort, and numerous issues have gone viral (achieved notoriety quickly) with the aid of social media.Use social media to promote articles, videos, and memes that tackle any one of the many facets of ending poverty.


While the reach of social media is broad, its effect is often shallow. Even though it’s a great way to spread a message, social media alone usually doesn’t produce lasting change. Over-reliance on social media risks creating a lot of “slacktivists,” or people who are constantly hitting the “share” button to spread a message, but take no action beyond that., If you want to take your advocacy one step further, create content that tackles issues relating to poverty. “Content creation” is a broad term, but all it really means is creating any type of media—whether it’s audio, video, visual, or written. In order to publish your content, you can create your own platform or contribute to someone else’s, depending on the effort you can devote to it.Podcasts, blogs, and YouTube are all great ways to publish your message. You can create your own blog, podcast, or YouTube channel if you think you can attract an audience and you want complete control over messaging. See Start Your Own Podcast and Start a Blog to learn more.
There are a lot of ways to publish your content on someone else’s site but they’re all going to boil down to two basic methods:You can give them what they want, or convince them to accept what you’re offering. Search the blogs, podcasts, and YouTube channels that you think would make a good platform for your message, and ask them their policies on submissions. Either they’ll ask you to create something about a certain subject, or they’ll want you to pitch them on something you’re working on.
 Many voices together are more powerful than one voice alone. By joining a group that’s concerned with the same issues you’re concerned with, you’ll gain credibility and access.


For instance, if your particular concern is poverty among working women, you can join a group like 9 to 5, which lobbies and advocates on that particular issue.As a member of 9 to 5, you’ll gain credibility when you talk to others about poverty among working women. Saying, “I’m a member of 9 to 5, and we lobby and organize on behalf of issues of special concern to poor and working women,” has a much better ring to it than “You know what I think?”
Plus, 9 to 5 already has a newsletter, a website, and a blog. What better way to spread your ideas about poverty and working women than broadcasting them to a group you already know cares about that issue?

, Be an advocate by taking your message to people who have the power to make the changes you want to make. With a problem as big as poverty, there are a lot of decision makers and a lot of ways to communicate with them. For example:


You can write a letter to the editor of your local newspaper, your congressman, senator, mayor, or other political figure.Call your elected representative.
Start an online petition (that you spread through social media). Since one voice might not be enough, let the decision makers know just how many people care about the issue you’re passionate about.
Change.org is one of the best known places to create an online petition, but it’s far from the only one.If you gather enough signatures, invest the money and time in printing out a hard copy. Hand delivering a stack of papers with 30,000 signatures is more visually impressive than sending an email with an attachment.

