 By being willing to accept your fate, you make them more receptive to not punishing you as much next time, as well as maybe letting you off early this time.
 Your parent doesn't just want to make you unhappy by punishing you. He or she wants you to a learn that you are doing something wrong so that you don't make the same mistake next time. Your parent has experience you don't, so he is trying to help you avoid the consequences that could happen to you if act in that way as an adult. Once you show you understand why your parents are punishing you, they may be willing to let you off early., They may have been a little harsh in their punishment and may regret it later. If you are on your best behavior, they may let you off for good behavior.
 Show your parents that you are willing to work extra hard to please them and to do the right thing.
 Similarly, your parents will notice if you are working extra hard to be good. They'll appreciate you helping out around the house, which may make them more receptive to letting you off the hook.


Additionally, the more you complain, the more your parents will know you hate the punishment, meaning it's the perfect punishment for them to choose the next time you get in trouble.
 Write a letter detailing how you will do better in the future, and behave in a way that clearly shows you are trying to do better. For instance, if you were grounded for getting in a fight with your sister, try being extra nice to her to show you understand the problem.For example, if you stayed out past curfew, you could write a letter that says the following: "Dear Mom and Dad, I realize now that I should have called when I was out so late. Staying out too late was bad enough, but then I made you worry by not letting you know where I was. I know you love me and want to keep me safe, and I really do appreciate how concerned you are about me. In the future, I'll try to be more considerate of your feelings in all situations, and let you know where I am no matter what. Love, Jessie"

, After accepting your punishment for at least several days (though a week is better for longer punishments), you can ask to be let off early from your punishment. If your parent has seen you've learned your lesson, they may relent and stop the punishment.


Remember not to demand to be let off. You are making a request, which means your parents have the option to say no. Also, be specific. Say something like "Mom, can I talk to you? I know getting behind on my school work was wrong, and I have learned my lesson. I think you may have noticed that I've gotten all my homework done early this week, and I've abided by your punishment. Do you think you could please let me off a little early so I can see Julie this weekend? I have already done my homework for next week."

