 Brush your hair to remove any tangles, then curl it using your favorite curling method. If you have naturally-curly hair, consider combing it with your fingers or a wide-toothed comb instead. This will help detangle it without making it frizzy.









If you decide to curl your hair, consider doing it the day before.This style is better suited for long hair. You can attempt it with shorter hair, but it may not look exactly like Dorothy's.
 Twist and clip one of the halves out of the way. Avoid doing a side or off-center part for this *style.
 Take a small section of hair from you front hairline, close to your center part. Twist it upwards, towards the center part.
 Make sure that you are only grabbing hair from your hairline and not the part.
 Keep the twists night and tight as you go. Remember, you can always loosen it up later if you wish to do so.








You want all of your hair gathered into the twist by the time you reach the nape of your neck.
 Divide the twisted hair into three, even sections. Braid them together three to four times, or until you reach your collar bone. Secure the braid with another hair tie.








If you are having troubles with this step, secure the twisted hair with a clear hair elastic first. Braid your hair, tie it off, then snip off the first hair tie.If you have short hair, you may need to braid only once or twice.
 Unclip your hair. Twist braid it towards the nape of your neck. Make sure that you are twisting it upwards as before. Divide it into three sections, then normal braid it until you reach your collar bone. Tie it off with another hair tie.
 If you curled your hair, you may need to touch the curls up with a curling iron. If you have naturally curly hair, wrap your hair around your forefinger to give it a better shape.
 For a traditional Dorothy look, tie pretty ribbons into bows around the base of your braids. For a more boho-look, you could gently loosen up the twisted braid with your hands. Set your style with a light misting of hairspray, if needed.







