 If you determine that your child is spoiled, sit them down for a talk. Let them know that they are not being as good as they could be, and that some things will be changing in your house. Have the conversation after they have just done something bad so that it doesn’t seem random.Say something like “I know you’re angry, but this kind of behavior is unacceptable in this house. From now on, if you act like that, you will be punished every time.”
Don’t yell or curse at them. Avoid physical punishment, as well.
 Clarify the new punishments in the household to your child. You can take away certain privileges from them or put them in timeout when they act out. Do not cut them any slack on these punishments, or else they will not respect them and will continue to act spoiled.Consider taking away things like cell phones or TV privileges from children over age seven.
Use timeout for children younger than eight. Put them in timeout one minute for every year of age (e.g., three minutes for a three year old).
 When your child whines for something, do not give it to them to shut them up. Let them know that you will respond to them once they ask without crying or acting like a baby.Say something like “Josiah, as long as you are whining, I cannot understand what you’re asking for. I need you to ask me like a big boy or you are going to timeout.”

, Correct this behavior immediately and let them know that this is not okay. If you allow too much time to lapse between bad behavior and correction, they will be unclear on the severity of their actions.

Pull them aside and say “Amy, that was rude. You are not to speak to your grandmother in that way. I want you to apologize to her now.”
If they refuse to apologize, you can do so for them by saying “Mom, I’m sorry that Amy spoke to you in that way. It was rude.”

, Your child is likely accustomed to getting whatever they want, whenever they want. Begin establishing a bit more balance between wants and needs in your home. Before approaching situations where they would typically get a treat, communicate any change of plans.

Say “I know you usually get a toy when we go shopping, but today we are just getting groceries. I need you to not ask for anything in there, okay?”

, In the past, you likely offered your child a treat just to avoid a tantrum or crying spell. Abandon this practice and instead reward your child when they are good. If you come in from the store and your child helps you put away the groceries, give them your thanks. If you come home, and their room is clean without you having to tell them, make them their favorite dessert that day., Though you are probably accustomed to your child controlling all your time, begin to break that cycle. Connect with friends, go on dates with your partner, and take time to yourself each day to relax or enjoy life. Spend time with your child, but remember to maintain a relationship with yourself, as well.Even if they cry when you leave, know that they will be okay. They will probably be calm within a few minutes.

