 Think about your cooking over the last month. Make a tally of the times you needed a mixer and either didn’t have one or had an inadequate one. If you are a person who bakes a lot you will have different needs than the occasional baker. If you like to experiment with new recipes your needs will be different than someone who cooks quick and easy.


Look at your holiday plans and determine if you will be cooking more and may need a mixer.;
, Look around your kitchen and decide where you would keep a mixer. Determine if you have a large enough kitchen with a lot of counter space for a large mixer or a small kitchen where storage is an obstacle. Move some things around on your countertop to get a feel for how a large mixer would look. While some people don't like to have a lot of things on their countertops because it feels cluttered, other people love the look of upscale appliances all around the kitchen.Look in your cupboards to see if you have room to store a mixer. You will want it to be easily accessible.
Mixers come in many different sizes.

A stand mixer usually measures around 14”D x 8-½”W x 14”H (35.5.cm x 31.5cm x 35.5cm).
A hand mixer will be approximately 8"D x 4"W x 6"H (20.3cm x 10.2cm x15.2cm).
 The cost of mixers varies dramatically. You will need to budget for a mixer regardless of the type. You can buy a hand mixer at a discount store for as little as $20.00 and upwards of $150.00. A stand mixer will range from $200.00 to upwards of $500.00.If you are budget restricted you do not have to overspend to get a good mixer. If you are a beginner in the kitchen but love expensive appliances, you can have the look of a pro for the right budget. Make sure you set a budget and stick with it.
 The right hand mixer will be easy for you to use and you may be thrilled with the results. You can use a hand mixer to do many basic tasks including: mixing cake batter, whisking egg whites, and whipping cream. If you only bake a few times a month, it may be perfect for you.A hand mixer is small and lightweight, making it easy for you to handle. You can store it easily because of it’s small size.
Most hand mixers have 2 or 3 speeds for mixing. They typically come with one or 2 sets of small beaters as well. You will find this adequate for many basic mixing jobs.
Hand mixing can be tiring if you have to hold your mixer for a very long time.
 In addition to mixing, whisking and whipping, you can knead dough and prepare pasta ingredients with a stand mixer. You can purchase additional attachments for things like meat grinding and food processing. If you will be mixing more than once a week you may consider a stand mixer.The stand mixer is a large, heavy appliance and you will utilize it best if you give it its own counter space. Weighing 29 pounds on average, you may not want to pull it out of a cupboard every time you use it.Because of the mixer's weight, you will be able to prepare hard to knead doughs without the mixer lifting or tipping. The stand mixer also has a head that locks in place to prevent bouncing and moving while you are mixing.
The attachments for pasta, meat dicing and others make it more versatile for you to use your mixer for more than just baking.
There may be as many as 20 speeds on a stand mixer, so you will be able to manage every job effectively. The larger bowl size of a stand mixer size is conducive to your working on larger projects in the kitchen.
You will find a variety of colors and finishes so your stand mixer can match any decor. A good finish will be easy for you to keep clean. Most stand mixers also come with a splash guard to prevent liquids from splashing out of the bowl and all over you and the countertop.
 You can use a simple, balloon shaped wire whisk for some basic kitchen tasks. You can easily mix ingredients such as eggs, wet cake mixes and whipped cream by hand. If you don't cook very often, a whisk may be all you need.


Whisks are handheld and contour easily to a bowl for whipping.A whisk is typically 8 to 12 inches long (20cm to 30cm), making it very easy for you to store, even if your kitchen is small. You can store it in your utensil drawer or on the countertop in a utensil holder.You can purchase a whisk for as little as $1.00 but a good one will cost between $8.00 and $10.00. If you are choosing a whisk instead of a mixer you may want to choose a better quality whisk.
 Now that you have decided which kind of mixer to buy, consult online marketplaces like Amazon or a magazine consumer buying guide like Consumer Reports. You can compare features within the category. You will also learn about quality differences. Read real reviews to see what people are saying about different models.Be sure to stay within your predetermined budget.
 People have very strong opinions about their tools, so a friend may be happy to help. You can turn it into an evening of cooking with your friend. You will get a good recommendation and you may avoid repeating a friend's mistake purchase.
 Kitchen mixers are frequently on sale, especially during the fall holiday season. Be sure you compare apples and apples as there are so many different models to choose from. Many department stores and kitchen specialty stores issue coupons for discounts on your purchase.


Look for coupons online, both on the manufacturer's website and on websites like RetailMeNot and Coupons.com.
 You may find a nearly new, high quality mixer for sale at a fraction of the price of a new one. Look for something local on Craigslist so you do not have to pay shipping costs. If you do not have experience with sites like Craigslist, be sure to ask an experienced friend to help guide you through a safe buying process.
 Go to a store to see get a feel for different mixers even if you hope to purchase online. The weight, feel and look vary greatly between brands and models, hence why many stores have models out for you to try. A little more work up-front will help ensure a choice you will be happy with for years to come.

