 A person’s ability to emotionally attach to another person in a relationship is heavily influenced by the relationship she had as a child with her primary caregiver.If the caregiver relationship was afflicted with insecurities, it is likely the person’s adult romantic relationships will suffer the same struggles. Precise terms can vary, but generally adult attachment styles fall into four categories. Determine which one you might fall into:Secure: the person easily attaches to others.
Anxious-preoccupied: the person wants to be emotionally intimate with others, but the person believes others don’t want to return the favor.
Dismissive-avoidant: the person is independent and does not want to rely upon anyone or have anyone depend on her.
Fearful-avoidant: the person desires closeness but is insecure about the possibility of getting hurt.
If you recognize your style in any of the above, there are things you can do to manage: educate yourself on attachment theory; find a therapist with an expertise in attachment theory; seek partners with secure attachment styles; participate in couples counseling; talk about your relationship.
 Your family teaches you many things that you will carry into adulthood. Some things will be life-affirming and wonderful, and other things will be challenging. Many times insecurities are derived from the interactions you had and continue to have within your family, and even affect the types of adult relationships you pursue.List all the members in your immediate family. Next to each name list the positive things this person helped you develop. Then, list the things that you believe contributed to the negative feelings and behaviors you have developed.
For example, if your father favored your brother and excluded you from activities because you were a girl, you may believe you will never be good enough. This doesn’t only affect the relationship you have with your father and brother, but it may be a theme that runs through a lot of situations in your adult life.
 The biggest difference between family and friends is that you get to choose your friends. Sometimes you will be closer with your friends than your family members. Insecurities can make friendships challenging at times. Identifying a friends' insecurities and showing empathy toward them will help build a more solid friendship.


You may have friends who trigger your insecurities. For example, one of your friends might be extremely attractive and when you go out with him he gets a lot of attention. You feel excluded and unattractive. If this occurs, appreciate your great qualities and focus on having fun rather than judging yourself.
On the other hand, if one of your friends is showing her insecurities, use reassurance to help mend the problem. For example, your friend doesn’t get picked for an audition for a school play and berates herself by saying, “I’m so lame. I knew I was going to blow it. It’s because my nose is too big.” Speak up and say, “You can’t do that to yourself. You are beautiful and smart and remember they are looking for a particular type for the role. It just wasn’t you and it doesn’t mean there won’t be fabulous roles for you later.”

, It is difficult to watch a friend make poor decisions that affect him and the people who care about him. Unfortunately, insecurities can cause people to do things that may require you or someone else to step in and help.


If a friend is being promiscuous it is likely the sign of some deeper issues. A person who uses his sexuality as a way to garner favor with others may be insecure. Your friend is likely valuing himself based on his sexual attractiveness to others rather than being seen as a complete person. This type of behavior leads to health risks, being taken advantage of and declining self-esteem.
Insecurities can lead to people self-medicating with alcohol and drugs. Perhaps a friend gets drunk to feel more confident and relaxed.The degree to which this friend does this is the issue. Addiction is a very serious affliction that requires dedication and professional help to manage. Help yourself or a friend get help by asking a physician or close friend or family member for a referral to a therapist. However, if that is not feasible contact your local department of mental health about counseling.
 Insecurities in the workplace can affect your livelihood. When someone in charge is a bully and you must abide by this person’s rule, you must be cautious.Identifying a coworker’s insecurities will prevent you from endangering your job. The goal is to know what the insecurities are so you can avoid discussions and actions that arouse and aggravate them.


Someone you work with is not willing to share information with you because he is insecure about his job. Rather than confronting the person, find other sources for the information. If it becomes an extremely difficult situation and threatens your job, then speak to a supervisor about it. Respect the chain of command and ask for suggestions on how to handle the situation.
You might work for an online company and never get to see your coworkers face-to-face. This leaves you with extremely limited ways to develop relationships, and any sense of confidence in the longevity of the position. To combat these insecurities, produce great work and let that speak for itself. Focus on building your confidence through methods such as: physical exercise, volunteer work, or join a club that promotes group activities.

