 The Amish believe the best way to express their religious beliefs is to practice the teachings of the Bible in their daily lives. They do not rely on ostentatious or elaborate religious ceremonies and rituals. They live by the biblical instruction "be not conformed to this world" (Romans 12:2) which informs their practice of living humbly, separate from the modern world. Two of their most important abiding principles are those of Demut which means humility, and Gelassenheit, which entails calmness, gentleness and surrendering yourself to God's will.The Amish place great importance on individual study of the Bible, which is considered to be the only source of religious authority. However, you should also get your hands on a copy of a book called "Martyr's Mirror", a highly respected publication which chronicles the history of the Amish people and honors those who dies for their faith.
It should also be noted that although the Amish place utmost importance on living according to the teachings of the Bible, they do not believe that this is a guaranteed path to salvation. They believe that any claim to be "saved" is an expression of pride and is therefore forbidden., Amish Church service are held every second Sunday, at the home of one of their community members. Each Amish family is expected to host their friends and neighbors for Church about once a year. Every Church district owns a collection of wooden benches, which is transported by wagon to the home of the church family and set up in their house and barn. Seating is arranged with men and boys on one side and women and girls on the other. The service lasts approximately three hours and is followed by a light lunch.


The service is said by 3 to 7 ministers and bishops, with the scriptures being read in High German. The main themes preached by the ministers include living a humble and virtuous life in the eyes of God and the idea of "judge not lest ye be judged". Personal prayer time is also included, with the congregation kneeling on the floor in silent worship.
Although musical instruments are not permitted by the Church, singing is an important part of every Amish service. The congregation sings from a special hymnal called the Ausband, a High German songbook which dates back to the 16th century. The singing is always done in unison, never in harmony.
The Amish receive Holy Communion twice a year.
 As mentioned before, the Amish are a branch of the Anabaptist church, which believes in adult baptism. The Amish are usually baptized between the ages of 17 and 22, and this ceremony marks their formal membership of the Church and a commitment to always live by the Ordnung, a set of unwritten rules which outlines the behavioral standards all Amish are expected to adhere to.The decision to be baptized must be completely personal and voluntary, you must willingly commit yourself to the Church for the rest of your life. Young people are free to leave the Amish community before they are baptized, and while some of them do, most will decide to commit themselves to the Church.
Once baptized, you will be committed to living your life according to the rules of the Ordnung. If you break this commitment and fail to repent for your sins, you may be "shunned" by the community, where people will avoid having any social contact with you and you will be forced to eat your meals separately from your family. If you repent you will be accepted back into the community in time, but if you continue to sin you may be excommunicated from the Church., Members of the Amish community can only marry once they have been baptized and are required to marry other Amish, though a couple may come from two different Amish communities. Most of a couple's courtship is done in secret, with the engagement only being "published" several weeks before the marriage. Most weddings occur in the fall, after the autumn harvest and are a joyous occasion, celebrating the union of two baptized adults, who promise to continue living according to Amish traditional values and to pass their faith on to their children.An Amish wedding ceremony is quite different to that of the "English". No rings are exchanged, there are no flowers or music, and the bride traditionally makes her own dress, which is blue or purple. In fact, the ceremony is very similar to a regular church service, except there is a greater emphasis on the ordinance of marriage, which is taken particularly seriously, as divorce is forbidden by the Amish church.After the ceremony, a huge feast is held at the home of the bride's parents, with as many as 200 to 300 guests. The guests are often served in separate sittings, followed by the singing of hymns. The couple's honeymoon period is spent visiting all of their relatives over the course of several weekends, at which point they will also collect their wedding gifts.Once an Amish man is married, he will begin to grow his beard - the symbol of a married man. The couple will usually be ready to move into a home of their own by the spring following their wedding., Amish bishops and deacons are chosen differently from church leaders in other faiths. Groups of men are first elected by the congregation, and then lots are drawn to decide who will become the new minister. Only baptized, married Amish men are eligible to become ministers, and they are obligated to accept the responsibility once they have been nominated. They will usually serve in this ministerial position for life.Amish bishops and ministers do not receive any formal, theological training; they are simply called upon by their community to uphold and enforce the teachings of the Bible and the rules of the Ordnung.
The system for drawing lots works by placing a sheet of paper with a Bible verse into the pages of a songbook. This songbook is then arranged in a row of other songbooks. Each nominated man must choose a songbook, and whoever picks the songbook with the Bible verse concealed inside is said to have been chosen by God to serve the Amish Church.