 Some items are easy to find a home for such as the kitchen scissors. They belong in the knife block on the kitchen counter, but where should you store the batteries you found rolling around in a drawer?Mentally decide where everything should go so that every item has a home. Put any random items in a location you think is appropriate. For instance, put screws in a tool box. Put pens and pencils in a container on the desk. Put decorative items on a side table.
 If your current bookshelves, closets, or drawers aren’t laid out well, then re-organize them. You don’t always have to toss out items to declutter. Sometimes you need to re-organize books, closets, shelves and the items they hold because entropy has taken over, and sometimes it’s because the items were never organized well in the first place.


Restack the books on the shelves. Unfold and refold items in the linen closet that make it look messy. Take all the shoes out of the closet and then line them up in the closet again.
Assess what you may need to store everything properly. Consider boxes, baskets, shelves and underbed boxes.
Utilize your wall space to create more living space in your home. Think about hanging more items on the wall or putting up shelves if you don’t have a lot of floor space., Stores such as The Container Store, Target and KMart have lots of organization materials to choose from. Don’t be afraid to get creative, and consider a wide variety of materials. Cardboard office style shoe boxes are good for storing items on open shelves. Baskets, which usually don’t have lids, are good for storing items you don’t mind displaying like magazines or extra throw blankets.


For closet organizers, look for hanging shoe racks and clothes racks. Grab some extra- hangers and hooks if you need them. Underbed boxes are good for overflow -- stuff that doesn’t have any other place to go. Use them to store seasonal clothes like sweaters.Ottomans with interior storage areas can help you hide clutter. Also, think about bookshelves, boxes with lids and baskets to organize items like magazines that otherwise might be left laying around on the floor.If you have any messy drawers or cabinets, think about purchasing some drawer organizers. These are good options to store loose items like tacks, coins and batteries.
Hooks and small dishes are good decorative options to store keys and loose items.
Zip ties and charging stations can help you make your area look neater by making your charging cords more organized. , Once you have everything that you need, put everything away neatly in its new organizers. Use clear storage containers so that you can see what’s inside. You’ll thank yourself later when you’re searching for your items, since you won’t need to open every single box to see what it contains. Place items that you’ll rarely use in storage spaces such as the attic or basement. Put more frequently used items under the bed or in the closet.


Label the boxes that are going to be stored away in closets or under the bed so that you don’t have to open the boxes when you’re searching for your items.