

Combine the olive oil, balsamic vinegar, salt, pepper, chives, and basil in a 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) baking pan. Stir with a spoon or fork to thoroughly combine.






Allow the corn to marinate in the mixture. Add the corn to the baking pan and toss, using a fork or spatula, until evenly coated. Cover the pan with plastic cling wrap and keep in the refrigerator for approximately three hours.
 You can you a gas grill or charcoal grill, but a charcoal grill generally works better for use with wood chips.


Pre-soak wood chips, if desired. The right kind of wood chips can enhance the flavor of the corn as it grills. Soak the chips in clean water for one or two hours before you plan to start the grill.To add a sweet flavor to the corn, try applewood, alder wood, cherry wood, or maple wood. Maple wood has a mild sweetness, while applewood is moderately sweet and also contributes a fruity smell.
For a bold, smoky flavor, try hickory wood or pecan wood. Hickory wood is considerably stronger.
Drain the chips before starting the grill. You do not want them completely dry, but if they are dripping wet, they will hinder the fire. Place the chips in a colander to drain or pat off excess water with a dry dish towel.
Sprinkle the still-damp wood chips over the grill. Only use a handful of chips unless you already know what sort of flavor to anticipate with that type of wood. Allow the wood chips to begin steadily smoking.
 Stir the corn to redistribute the coating.
 You might be able to keep the corn in the baking pan you marinated it in, but more of the smoky grill flavor will be transferred to the kernels if you remove them to a fine-mesh grilling basket or grilling griddle with small perforations.
 Distribute the kernels evenly between six sheets of aluminum foil, laying the kernels in a pile at the center of each sheet.
 Make sure that there are no loose or open gaps in the seal.
 Doing so creates small perforations that the corn cannot escape through, but it also allows the smoky flavor to seep in.
 Cover the grill. Keeping the grill covered allows the corn to cook faster, but it also traps the smoke from the wood chips inside, giving the corn a stronger flavor as a result.
 After this time has passed, open the grill and stir the corn. If the corn is wrapped in foil packets, use an oven mitt to gently grab the packet and give it a quick, light shake. Put the lid back on the grill and continue cooking.
 At this point, the corn should begin to sizzle. Uncover the grill and remove the corn.
 Allow the corn to cool slightly, but for the strongest flavor, serve it while it is still fairly hot to warm.

