 Look at bridal or wedding-related magazines to get a sense of what you want to wear. These magazines are great for inspiration and for narrowing down your choices if you are feeling overwhelmed! You can even start a physical scrapbook or Pinterest board of designs and styles that you like.;
, Even if it looks great on you, make sure you go to at least a few different shops and try on multiple things. You want to be assured that you made the right choice. To remember all your different options, take pictures of your favorite dresses so you can compare. Get the business card of all the shops that you visited and write notes on the back so you can remember where you saw each dress.
 Sometimes, it's hard to know what design looks best on your body type. It's easy to fall in love with a dress or suit and not be able to see that it might not be the best option for you personally. This is why getting the opinion of someone else is invaluable in picking the perfect outfit. , That thing was expensive! You want to make sure it looks pristine on your wedding day, so storing it in a garment bag is vital to making sure it looks the same way on your wedding day as it did the day you bought it. You can buy zipped garment bags at Sears of Walmart.
 Buy your shoes after you buy your dress or suit so you can match them. While you want to buy great-looking shoes, you also should make sure that they don't hurt your feet! Remember that you will be wearing these shoes all day for your wedding. They should be fashionable but also comfortable. When you find a pair of shoes you like, take a stroll in them. Walk around the store for five minutes and see how they feel. If after five minutes they feel like torture, they aren't the pair for you.
Match your shoes to your dress or suit by making sure they are the same shade. If they aren't the same color, make sure that something about them, whether it be an accent or an embellishment, matches your dress or suit.
Try to pick shoes made of soft leather. Soft leather is more comfortable and are less likely to cause blisters.
 Most brides, and some grooms, choose to accessorize their wedding outfits. A stunning necklace, pair of earrings, or watch can be a great way of making the outfit seem complete. For women, a wedding veil is also a traditional accessory they may choose to wear at their wedding. The key to buying the perfect accessory is to find one that matches your outfit but is special and unique on its own.


Choose an accessory that is made of high-quality materials. You want your accessory to not only match your dress or suit in color, but also in the quality of the material. Wearing a cheap-looking accessory will seem out of place paired with your dress or suit. Don't overdo it. Choose one or two accessories. Less can be more when it comes to accessories because too many can look overdone. 