 That is the most important step of them all. They know that you are the way you are because their little name tag says "manager" in cold black. Instead of working harder when the manager is around, work harder when there is a more experienced worker with you. Any person who has a relation with the manager will let the manager know you've done a good job. Word of mouth is extremely powerful. If you do a job better then the other new people, the supervisor will be sure to note it in reports. The manager will eventually find out.;
, Say something funny, informative, or even just "hello" to people. Greet customers and coworkers alike when you enter your station. Being friendly invites people to talk to you, and being able to hold a good conversation is vital.
 Properly. Mistakes happen. When they do, be sure to learn from them. If you are doing something and someone suggests a better way, do it. McDonald's didn't become a world-wide multi-million dollar company by not knowing what they are doing! If someone suggests a better way of doing something and you feel slightly foolish because it was obvious, laugh and thank them for the insight. If another co-worker gives you good advice, follow it.
 If you don't understand something or need to find something, ask someone for help. Figuring it out on your own may make you look good if you're lucky, but in the end it can slow you down too much to be efficient, or make you look foolish if you screw up. Don't be afraid to ask the same question twice or have someone demonstrate.
 Everyone drops and breaks things or puts ketchup on something that is not supposed to get ketchup. It's life. Apologize and learn not to do it again. If someone was hurt as a result of your actions, be concerned and don't lay blame. Report all accidents and incidents to the supervisor or manager as soon as possible. If a supervisor or manager asks you to do something, let them know you will do it after you finish what you are currently doing, within reason. "Just one second, I have to clean the grill off" works wonders. "Let me go wash my hands first" is a plus, but be sure you use that with all other employees too, or else the manager will catch on to you being a suck up.
 Show up to work when scheduled. Phone if you will be delayed.
 Skip breaks to assist your coworkers during unusual work hours. Managers appreciate teamwork.
 No one likes a know-it-all.
 If someone isn't doing their job right, inform them. If they don't improve, speak with the manager about it.
 In times of worker shortage, knowledge of all stations will become a valuable asset.
 Agree to work late or extra shifts whenever possible.
 Most people already know or have heard all about how much extra work is involved with closing, they don't want to hear about it again. You don't want people to hate you.
 Wear a clean uniform. Always wear your hat, even when you don't need to. If some uniform rules, like black shoes are not actively enforced, still follow it. It shows you care.
 If a person talks to you about your co-workers, they will talk about you. Be sure they have something good to talk about, word spreads upwards.

