 If you're in a hurry, you might not want to make an outline. However, this simple step will save you time in the end. An outline lets you map out your entire essay, start to finish. After that, all you have to do is fill in the gaps.Figure out the topic sentence, or thesis, of your report. This is the foundation of your entire report. For example, you could write, "Central Park, founded in 1891, is still a hub of activity in the Hillsdale community."
Lay out the body of the report. To use the park example, you might have a paragraph discussing historical information, one on ways the park has evolved, and one on the role the park serves in modern times.
Summarize your conclusion. Reiterate the point you want to make in your report one more time.
 The introduction should contain your topic sentence as well as a summary of the arguments you'll be presenting in order to back up your claim. Aim for an introduction that's at least four sentences long. Since this is the beginning of the report, it's your chance to engage readers (or impress your teacher) and give them a taste of what is to come., Take a look at your outline and begin expanding on the points you made. This is your chance to use the research you gathered and the ideas you brainstormed early in the process. Each paragraph in the body of your report should be at least four or five sentences long. More importantly, it should contain substantial information backed with good examples and facts that you have researched.


Never copy source material word for word. You should always paraphrase, or summarize, the information in your own words.
Many teachers require that a report have at least three body paragraphs in addition to the introduction and conclusion. Each paragraph should build on the last, leading to the conclusion.
If you're having trouble setting up your paragraphs, consider this format: make a statement, back it up with two examples, and make another statement to reinforce your point.
 Even though you'll be reiterating the information you've already discussed, it's important to present it in a fresh way in the conclusion. Drive your point home by bringing in a new example so that readers will see it in a new light.For example, you could point out since the park in your town is still a hub of activity after all these years, it's worth putting in time and effort to keep the buildings maintained.
You could also end with a quote to back up your main points.

