 Many medications can increase bowel movement frequency or cause diarrhea. Check the package insert that came with your medication. If diarrhea or any changes in bowel frequency are listed as possible side effects, consult your healthcare provider if you experience these symptoms.


Adderall has diarrhea listed as a side effect.
Metformin, a common medication for diabetes, also cause significant diarrhea. Check with your doctor if you are having significant GI symptoms while on metformin.
Other common medications can cause diarrhea, including misoprostol, laxatives, and stool softeners. , Alcohol can also cause diarrhea and may exacerbate bowel-related medical conditions such as Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). , Stress may contribute to increased bowel movement frequency and can cause diarrhea. People often feel anxious about relationships, finances, education exams, or other big life events.


Avoid the stressors you are able to avoid. This can include changing your plans to avoid areas of high traffic, or avoiding a particularly difficult coworker.
Treat your time as valuable. Learn to say no when someone asks you to help with a last-minute deadline or other activity that you really just don’t have time for.
Communicate with respect. If your neighbor is running a basketball tournament out of their house and creating a traffic snarl in your neighborhood, politely ask the person to change their behavior. Perhaps they could encourage parents to carpool or park farther away.
Be up front about how much time you can allocate to a project, conversation, or other activity. For example, if your coworker rushes up to you just as you’re about to leave for a meeting, politely tell them that you only have 5 minutes to listen.
Forgive and move forward. Staying angry and holding a grudge takes energy – your energy. Talk with the person who has wronged you and honestly express your feelings. Know that their answer may or may not be what you want to hear. Sometimes shrugging your shoulders and moving on is the best thing you can do for you.
Be adaptable and flexible. As important as it is to have a plan for many things, life always throws us curveballs. Ask yourself if having a pristine house is truly important, or if simply having a clean house is acceptable to you. Evaluate whether or not the thing that is bothering you will really matter a year or five years from now.

