 There are three main ways that make you eligible to apply for a US citizenship if you are a Canadian citizen. All details and official requirements can be found on the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website. However, if you have given up or relinquished your US citizenship in the past, you will not be able to obtain a US citizenship. The only exception is if you renounced your US citizenship under the age of 18. Then you must make the desire to be a US citizen known to the Department of State within six months of turning 18.Other than that, you can become a US citizen if:


You have been a permanent resident for at least 5 years (citizenship through naturalization).
You were born in Canada, but your genetic parents or non-genetic gestational mother were legal US citizens at the time of your birth (citizenship through parents).
Your married spouse is a legal US citizen and you have been a permanent residence and married to the same spouse for at least 3 years (naturalization for spouses of U.S. citizens).
 There are several requirements you need to meet before you can be eligible to apply for a US citizenship through naturalization:


You must be 18 years or older to apply.
You must be a green card holder for at least 5 years.
You must file your application with the State or Service District with jurisdiction that you have truly reside in your place of residence and have been for at least 3 months before applying for citizenship.You must have been continuously living in the US for 5 years after obtaining a green card and after applying for citizenship. That means you have not been outside of the US for more than 6 months and can prove that you have been physically present in the US 30 months before you plan to apply for citizenship.You must be able to read, write, and speak English and have knowledge and understanding of US history and government.
You must be a person with good moral character, accept the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and agree with the good order and happiness of the United States during all relevant periods under the law.
 In most cases, you are required to have had permanent residence in the US for at least 3 years and married to your spouse at the same time. However, if your spouse is employed abroad for at least 1 year by the US government, military, or other qualifying employer, no minimum time of permanent residence is specified or required of you. But you still need to have a green card or be a permanent resident of the US. The requirements for citizenship are quite similar to the requirements needed for applicants who are applying for citizenship through naturalization:


You must be 18 years or older to apply.
You must be a green card holder for at least 3 years.
You must be in a civil union with your US citizen spouse during the 3 years before you submit your citizenship application and all the way up to your citizenship examination date.
You must file your application with the State or Service District with jurisdiction that you have truly reside in your place of residence and have been for at least 3 months before applying for citizenship.You must have been continuously living in the US for 3 years after obtaining a green card and after applying for citizenship. That means you have not been outside of the US for more than 6 months.You must prove you have been physically present in the US for at least 18 months out of the 3 years before your citizenship application date.
You must be able to read, right, and speak English and have knowledge and understanding of US history and government.
You must be a person with good moral character, accept the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and agree with the good order and happiness of the United States during all relevant periods under the law.
If your spouse is being employed abroad, you must establish that you plan to depart immediately after you receive citizenship and also reside in the US immediately after your spouse's employment is terminated.
 If you plan to have your child in Canada and you and/or your spouse is a US citizen, your child will most likely be able to receive US citizenship automatically through you. In most cases, permanent residency is not required of the child but in certain circumstances, you must be able to prove you have resided the US for a certain period of time. Check the USCIS Policy Manual guidance on Children of U.S. Citizens for a full list of requirements.


The rules for citizenship through parents is extremely complex. It is dependent on various things such as whether the child was born in or out of wedlock, when the child was born, when the parent was born, and if one or both parents were US citizens at the time of birth. In some circumstances, blood tests would need to be done to prove a parent is indeed blood related to the child.
If parents are naturalized US citizens after the birth of a child, the child must have been under 18 at the time their parents were naturalized and must have had a green card before 18.
If you were adopted or your child is an adopted Canadian child, the adoptive parent must have adopted them before the child's 16th birthday and have had legal custody at the same time. As well, the child must have been admitted to the United States as an orphan or Convention adoptee.
 Depending on how you plan to obtain a US citizenship, you will be required to fill out a different form. All forms are located on Official Website of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). You can find PDF files of detailed instructions on how to fill out these forms, what the application fee is, and even a comprehensive checklist of all required documents.


If you are applying through naturalization, fill out Form N-400. You will be instructed to mail in your application along with a $680 check payable to the US Department of Homeland Security. Where you mail in your application depends on where you live and whether you are a current or former member of the military, spouse of a current or former member of the military, or close relative to a deceased member of the military. Your application requires you to not only submit Form N-400, but also any copy proofs of marriage certificates, birth certificates, Armed Forces memberships, and even photographs for evidence.
If you are applying for citizenship through your parents, fill out Form N-600. You will be instructed to mail in your application to the USCIS Phoenix Lockbox facility along with a $600 check payable to the US Department of Homeland Security. The price is adjusted to $550 if the child is adopted and completely waived if the applicant is a child of a veteran or member of the US Armed Forces. Your application requires you to not only submit Form N-600, but also any copy proofs of parent or parents' citizenship, birth certificates, Armed Forces memberships, and even photographs for evidence.
 Within a month or two, the USCIS will send you a receipt to let you know your application has been received and is in processing. On the receipt, there will be a number you can use to check up on the status of your application through their website.


In most cases, the USCIS will also send you a letter a few months later telling you come to a fingerprinting appointment. A date and time will be scheduled for you to go into your local USCIS office. You will be required to bring in your letter, green card or resident card, and an additional form of identification with your photograph on it (driver's license, or passport).
You may be required to send the USCIS additional documents.
 If you are applying through naturalization, you will be interviewed and required to take a naturalization exam where your knowledge of US history and government will be tested. The USCIS will send you a letter with a scheduled location, date, and time of your examination and interview. If you need to reschedule, you must ask in writing to have your interview rescheduled.If you don't receive a letter within 7 months after you have applied, contact the USCIS customer service at 1-800-375-5283.
There are many resources available to help you study for your naturalization test. USCIS provides some study materials on their website. You can also find tutors or classes that specialize in helping people take the naturalization exam.
 You only have 2 chances to pass the examination. If you fail both times, you will need to restart your application process again. If you don't show up to your interview and you don't contact the USCIS beforehand, the USCIS will close your case and application. You will have one year to reopen your case before your application is denied and you will need to restart your application process all over again. If you do show up for your interview, the process consists of:


An USCIS officer will ask about your application and your background. It's important you go over what you wrote in your application and be as truthful as possible during the interview. This portion of the process counts towards the speaking component of the naturalization exam.
To test your reading abilities, you will be asked to read aloud three English sentence. The USCIS provides a helpful Reading Vocabulary to prepare for your exam.
To test your writing abilities, you will be asked to write out three English sentences provided by the USCIS officer. The USCIS provides a helpful Writing Test Vocabulary to prepare for your examination.
Finally, during your interview, you will be asked 10 civics questions and you must answer 6 of them correctly to pass this portion of the exam. Thankfully, the USCIS provides you with a list of 100 possible civics questions with their answers that will be asked.
You will receive your naturalization exam results after the interview and be told whether you are approved or denied citizenship.
 Once you are approved for US citizenship, you will take part in a naturalization ceremony where you will say the Oath of Allegiance and officially become a citizen of the US. In some cases, you can take the oath on the same day as your interview. In most cases, the USCIS will mail you a letter with the date and time of your ceremony.


You will be asked to fill out Form N-445 before your ceremony which confirms your ceremony details and lists the required documents you must bring to your ceremony. It also asks you a few brief questions about yourself in case your status has changed after your examination (for example, you married, divorced, or was widowed any time between your naturalization examination and ceremony).
When you arrive for your ceremony, a USCIS officer will review with you your responses in your N-445 form.
You will be required to turn in your Permanent Resident Card or Green Card at the ceremony.
After you take your Oath of Allegiance, you will be given a Certificate of Naturalization. Be sure to review your certificate to ensure it is free of errors. Your certificate acts as proof of your US citizenship.
After your ceremony, you are now eligible to apply for a US passport, register to vote, and asked to update your social security records at your local Social Security Administration (SSA) office.

