 When you sit down to write the poem or a series of poems in full, you should try to be as honest and detailed as possible. Though you may feel shame, fear, guilt, or anger about what you are writing about, know that poetry is a healthy outlet for these feelings. Let your creativity take over and try to be as honest about your feelings as you can on the page.You may be afraid of being too honest or raw in your poetry. But being honest and detailed will infuse your poem with energy and intent, drawing your reader into what you have to say.
Try to be graphic and detailed about what you are describing in your poem. For example, if you are describing a fight you had with your mother recently, be sure to include how you felt about the fight from your perspective and why the fight started. You may also include details about what it felt like to yell or scream at your mother.
 You should also have descriptions that focus on the five senses: sight, touch, taste, smell, and sound. Using sensory descriptions will help make your poem that much stronger and vivid for your reader.For example, if you are writing about a fight between you and your mother, you may focus on how it sounded to fight with her or how it felt. You may describe her screams as “vibrating in your ears” or her words as “painful daggers on my skin.”

, You should lean on literary devices like metaphor and simile to add more depth to your poem. Using literary devices will allow you to describe a moment or event in more detail. Try to use literary devices throughout your poem so it flows well and feels engaging on the page. You may use several literary devices, including:Metaphor: This device compares one object or subject to another object or subject in a surprising way. For example, “My mother’s screams were a tornado that swept up the house.”
Simile: This device compares one object or subject to another using “like” or “as”. For example, “I am as solitary as a bird on a wire” or “She was like a sudden storm on a sunny day.”
Personification: This device describes an object or idea using human qualities or attributes. For example, “The car was a real beauty” or “The pen leaped across the page.”

, Good poetry is written for the page and for the ear. You should write poems that appeal to the reader and the listener, as poetry is often read out loud. Focus on how you can create an interesting rhythm or flow to your poetry, especially when you are describing intense emotions. Writing for the ear can allow you to play with word choice, word order, and stanza breaks in the poem.For example, you may decide to put alliteration in one line of your poem, where consonant sounds are repeated in order. You may have the line, “She is a swift sight on the scene,” where the same consonant sounds are repeated in a row.
You may also try using assonance in your poem, where certain sounds are repeated in the vowels on a line or phrase. For example, you may have the phrase “a long song” or “a sudden sea.”
You can also play with stanza breaks, where you indent one line of the poem so there is a break or gap between two lines. This can force the reader to pause or take a breath when they are reading the poem. It can also help to highlight a certain phrase or word on the page.

