 If you want to do well on a difficult exam, the first step is paying attention in class. Listen closely to whatever your teacher or professor says in the weeks leading up to the test.Listen actively. Pay attention not only to words but the meaning behind them. During lectures and discussions, try to understand the meaning behind whatever's being said. Pay attention first to the central idea and then look for illustrating examples, evidence, and facts surrounding that idea.
Pay attention to anything that seems emphasized. If your teacher writes something on the board or points it out in a slideshow, pay extra attention -- it's probably something that will end up on the test.
If your professor starts discussing something complex or confusing, your first impulse may be to tune out due to boredom or stress. However, work against this instinct. Take this as an opportunity to better understand tough topics. Focus more as the material becomes more difficult.
Ignore personal worries, thoughts of friends and family members, or plans for after class or school. Concentrate on the present moment and try to absorb what's being said.;
, You'll have a harder time listening and concentrating if the material is unfamiliar to you. Do the reading and homework ahead of time. Write down any questions you have and, when the teacher gives you the opportunity, ask these questions., Taking good notes can be the difference between a C and an A. During class, make sure you always come equipped with a notebook and pencil. Write down whatever's being said and practice good note taking strategies.Organize your notes by subject and date. Write the date in the upper righthand corner of a notebook page and list the title of the lecture or the general subject material at the top of the page. Use subheadings when necessary. For example, if your professor is lecturing on Ronald Reagan's presidency you can write "The Reagan Years" at the top of your page. As she transitions into more specific topics, use subheadings like "The Early Years," "The Iran Contra Scandal," and so on. This will make reviewing your notes much easier later on.
Use abbreviations and symbols. As you'll need to take notes as your teacher is talking, symbols and abbreviations can help. For example, write "w/o" instead of "without" or "&" instead of "and." You can also use abbreviations relevant to the lecture when needed. Like, write "RR" instead of "Ronald Reagan."
Write clearly. You do not want to review your notes to find you cannot read them. Make sure to use neat penmanship.
Review your notes shortly after class. Immediately reviewing information discussed can improve your memory. This will make it easier to review material before an exam as you'll have better recall.
Compare notes. Find other students in your class who are diligent note takers. Compare notes after class to see what areas you may have missed.
Try the question/answer/evidence method.This note-taking technique encourages you to pose a question regarding what you're hearing in class, then take down notes about the evidence you would use to put together your answer. For example, if you are in a class on Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet, a question might be "What is the central theme of Romeo and Juliet?" There are many possible answers for this, but focus on what you know from your own reading and class discussion. You might jot down answers such as "consequence of holding grudges" or "ignorance of hot-headed youth." Then you'd note down evidence from the text and your class lectures to support it.
 As the test gets closer, ask your teacher what specific materials you'll be tested on. Your teacher might be able to provide an overview on the most important areas of focus. You can use this to help guide your studies. Also, watch for hints in class as to what information is the most important. Does your teacher seem to emphasize a particular concept when she talks? Are there certain subject areas you spend more time talking about than others? If so, this material will probably be on the test., Read any material that's assigned for class carefully. Active reading can help you better retain information for a test.


Pay attention to chapter titles and sub-tittles. This will give you a clue as to what the information is about. If your textbook contains questions at the beginning of each chapter, read these questions ahead of time. Read the text searching for their answers, as these questions reveal the key points of the text.Look for bolded subheadings and the beginning sentences of paragraphs. These usually help summarize the main points of any given material. This will also help you know where to pay the most attention when reading.If you're allowed to do so, write notes in the margins of textbooks. Underline and highlight important passages so you can more easily find them later., Before you sit down to study, make sure you make a good study space for yourself. Choose a comfortable area with minimal distractions.


Eliminate distractions. Things like computers, television sets, phones, and other distracting materials should be kept out of your study space. You should also make sure you choose a space that's quiet. Use the desk in your bedroom, for example, or go to a quiet coffee shop or the local library.Try to study in the same space each day. This way, your brain will associate this space with work. It will be easier to get back in the swing of studying when you begin a new session., Creating a solid study schedule can help you focus. In the weeks leading up to an exam, start planning when and where to study.


Start slow. Plan to study 10 to 15 minutes at a time and then work up to bigger intervals.Start studying at least a week before a big test. Cramming material in last minute is a bad idea.Allow yourself to take short, timed breaks. Studying for hours on end is overwhelming. Incorporate breaks for snacks and relaxing throughout your study sessions., You should not study without direction. This is ineffective. Each study session should have its own specific goal. Set a variety of study session goals for each planned session in your schedule. Break material down into reasonable chunks so you're not overwhelmed.For example, say you're studying for a French exam and need to know 50 vocabulary words. Try to learn 10 words per study session, eventually working your way up to the full 50.As another example, if you're studying for a math test, set a goal to work on one type of problem or one chapter at a time. Once you've mastered that, move on to the next.
 Consistency is important to a good study session. Procrastination puts constraints on your time, for one, and can easily become a habit. Study every day at the same time in the same place. Even if it's a struggle at first, it will be worth it as you're far more likely to get a good grade this way.You can help yourself avoid procrastination by using the tips in this section. Setting clear goals, aiming for manageable "study chunks" rather than huge blocks of study time, and rewarding yourself after achieving your goals are all good ways to stop procrastination in its tracks.
For example, if there's a show you really like to watch on Sunday night, tell yourself you can watch it if you get your studying done in the afternoon. Then, put the books away and fully enjoy your show as a reward for getting your work done.
 Study groups can be a helpful tool when used effectively. Make sure you study with people who are also serious, hardworking students. Prepare beforehand and plan to quiz each other on a variety of topics. Choose people you can trust to stay on task. Avoid people who will encourage procrastination., Repetition is key to memorization. Test yourself over and over again on relevant material if you want to get a good grade. Review material you studies in a previous session before a new study session. Re-read important passages in text books. If practice tests and quizzes are provided, take them. Use flashcards, which you can create by hand or with online programs, to test yourself on things like dates, vocabulary, and more., Something as simple as running on too little sleep can sabotage your memory and concentration. Strive to get at least 8 hours of high quality sleep in the night before an exam.You might be tempted to stay up late cramming the night before an exam, but this is usually counter-productive. Giving your brain time to recover by going to bed is a better option.
 If you're feeling hungry during a test, this can be distracting. You also might have trouble concentrating due to lack of food. Eat something with complex carbohydrates and protein to keep you feeling powered up all morning long.A bowl of oatmeal with Greek yogurt and fruit is a great breakfast. Scrambled eggs and whole-wheat toast is another good option.
 Show up early so you don't stress yourself out about being late. Stress can be a distraction when taking a test. Also, if you arrive early you'll have time to do some quick, last minute review of the more difficult materials before your exam starts., Strategy can make a big difference when it come to taking an exam. Know some tips and tricks beforehand when going into a test.


For multiple choice questions, read questions completely before looking at the answer options. Eliminate any options you're 100% sure are wrong and read all options before selecting an answer.For questions with the options "none of the above" and "all of the above" for answers, there are some tricks you can use. If you're certain one answer is false, for example, you can rule out "all of the above." Conversely, if you're certain one answer is true, you can rule out "none of the above." If you know two answers are true or two are false, the answer is more likely to be none or all of the above.For "true or false" questions, keep in mind the majority of answers are usually true. If you don't know, guess true. Keep in mind answers containing partially correct information are usually "false." Words like "every," "always," and "never," usually provide insight to a question's answer. Generalizations, such as "never" and "always," are often false. Qualifiers, such as "frequently" or "seldom," may make a statement more likely to be true., If you get stuck on a question, don't let it suck up the rest of your time. Mark it so that you can find it again, and move on to the next one. Just make sure that if you're using a separate answer sheet, such as a scantron, you skip the proper row before you fill in the next answers.


Once you've done all the questions you know, go back to the tricky ones. You'll feel more confident having finished the ones you're sure of, and you'll be less likely to second-guess yourself.
 This way, you'll know you have enough time to give a full answer before moving onto shorter questions.


Take the time to quickly plan your answer to an essay question. This doesn't have to be a huge, detailed outline: just a short list of bullet points is fine. Going into an essay question with an idea of the points you want to make, and how you want to order them, will be a big advantage.If questions have different points assigned to them (e.g., some questions are worth 5 points and others are worth 10), do the questions worth the highest number of points first., Many people feel anxious before a big test. There are a variety of things you can do to reduce anxiety when taking an exam.


Do not pay attention to how quickly other people are finishing the test. This will only serve to stress you out more.Focus on one question at a time. Do not let your mind wander to other parts of the test.Read directions carefully. Do not hesitate to talk to your teacher if you're unsure of anything.If gum is allowed, chewing gum can help some people relieve anxiety. Also, take big, deep breaths when taking an exam as this can also help alleviate anxiety.If you feel stuck, get up and stretch. Take a few deep breaths. Shake your arms and legs, but quietly. Then go back to the test.