 Ask local hospitals, community centers, and religious centers for volunteer opportunities. You may be able to join deaf-blind children in playtime, provide accessibility support during field trips, or provide transportation. Integrated classrooms and schools for the Blind or for the Deaf in your area may also accept tutor-volunteers.

Fundraise. Donate money and raise funds for Deaf and Blind schools, schools with integrated classrooms, and organizations that help families of deaf-blind children. Consider organizing a bake sale, creating a GoFundMe campaign, or organizing a fun run to raise money.
Consider learning tactile sign language if you are interested in helping deaf-blind children without residual hearing or much sight.
 Say something if you notice that your local schools, public parks, and local businesses doe not comply with basic accessibility guidelines. For example, does your community have accessible crosswalks, with walk signs that vibrate and sound?Write principals, business owners about accessibility issues in privates spaces. For public spaces, consider joining a planning committee, or writing an open letter in the local paper pointing out the problems.
When you are planning events, think about ways to make them accessible. Is your venue well-lit and free from ambient noise? Is signage available in Braille? Are there ramps and floor space for wheelchairs, which are used by many deaf-blind children?
Emails to families that include deaf-blind children should be sent as text, rather than images of text, so that children with residual hearing can listen to them as speech.
Marches and protests are more accessible if they include interpreters, areas to sit, even terrain, and volunteers who look out for those in need of assistance.
 Teach your own children about disability and what that might mean for their peers. Teach them what words are acceptable and what are considered impolite. Encourage them to exhibit empathy and respect.

You might teach children that it is appropriate to ask some questions when you are friends with someone, but that they shouldn't point or make jokes about another child's disability.
Teach your children to avoid ableist put-downs like "lame" and "retarded."
Make a play-date. If your child has a classmate who is deaf-blind, ask your child if you can organize a play date for them. Go over expectations ahead of time, and make sure to communicate beforehand with the child's parents.

