 Peel back the corner of the package and let the water the tofu comes packed in run out. Place the tofu on a plate and drape a paper towel or piece of cheesecloth over the top. Rest a heavy object, like a cookbook or metal saucepan, on top of the tofu block. This will help force out the excess moisture contained in the tofu.Leave the tofu under constant compression for 20 to 30 minutes.
Not squeezing the water out of the tofu first could result in watery sloppy joes.;
, Use a sharp knife to cut the block of tofu, slicing it first into long, narrow strips, then turning the strips and cutting them into pieces of the desired size. For smoother sloppy joes, dice or mince the tofu into pea-sized squares. If you prefer heartier sandwiches, you can leave the cubes slightly bigger.You can also mash the tofu or crumble the tofu by breaking it apart with a fork.Cutting the tofu into smaller pieces increases its surface area, which will help it cook faster.
 The onions and any other vegetables you choose to include (green pepper, mushrooms, fresh tomatoes, etc.) should be roughly the same size as the tofu. Mince the garlic extra fine to avoid biting into any oversized pieces.In addition to regular white onion, you could use a head of scallions or shallots.
Use a garlic press to grate the cloves into a thick paste.
 Pour 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil to the pan and turn on the cooktop to medium-high heat. Tilt the pan to spread the oil around. The surface of the pan should be nice and hot before you begin cooking.Butter can be used in place of oil on nonstick pans.
 Toss your aromatic ingredients into the pan and begin searing them. This will unlock their pungent, zesty flavors, which will then be infused into the tofu. Cook the garlic and onions until they turn translucent and begin to brown slightly.Caramelized aromatics will lend a noticeable richness to the mild tofu.
Be careful not to cook the onions and garlic until they burn. This could ruin the flavor of the sloppy joes.
 Add the tofu and scramble it together with the aromatics. Let the tofu cook for about 3-5 minutes before stirring again. As it fries, it will absorb the oil and take on a crisp, golden brown finish.


Dust the tofu with a coating of rice flour or cornstarch before pan frying to give it an extra crunchy texture.Tofu doesn’t change colors dramatically when cooked, so look for the edges to just begin turning golden brown and be careful not to get it too done., Sprinkle the tofu generously with salt, chili powder, onion powder and paprika. If you want, you can also add a pinch of black or white pepper. Sample a piece of the tofu to make sure it’s seasoned just right.


Keep in mind that you’ll be increasing the saltiness later on when you add the canned tomatoes and other condiments.
A couple shakes of an all-purpose spice blend, such as Creole or Greek seasoning, is a good way to enhance the flavor of tofu.
 Open one can of diced tomatoes and stir them in with the tofu. Then, add 1-1½ cups of ketchup and 2 tablespoons of dijon mustard. Stir the ingredients until they’re thoroughly blended.Substitute a can of tomato puree for ketchup if you prefer tangier sloppy joes., At this point, you can incorporate a few other delicious extras to put your own personal stamp on the recipe. Diced green pepper, white mushrooms and chopped nuts are all vegetarian-friendly options that can impart welcome nutrients. You can also tinker with the flavor of the sauce by adding a dash of soy sauce, apple cider vinegar, sugar or fresh parsley.Turn up the heat with half a can of pickled jalapeño or serrano peppers.The ketchup will contribute to the sweetness of the sauce, so don’t overdo it with the sugar.
 Turn the cooktop down to medium heat so that the sauce gently bubbles around the edges of the pan. Leave the pan uncovered, stirring occasionally. This will allow it to thicken as it simmers.For a thicker consistency, let the sloppy joe mix simmer for an additional 5-10 minutes.
The longer you simmer the sloppy joe mix, the more time the flavors will have to set up and the tastier they’ll be., Scoop the sloppy joe mix with a serving spoon or ladle. Pile it onto toasted and buttered whole wheat hamburger buns, or make them the way grandma used to with two slices of plain white sandwich bread. Grab hold with both hands and take a big, messy bite!Wrap hamburger buns in a paper towel and microwave them for a few seconds, or butter them and stick them in the oven until the edges begin to brown.Don’t forget to soak up the mess that’s fallen out onto your plate with your bun!

, Hamburger buns are the traditional vehicle for sloppy joes, but there's no rules for how to eat your messy masterpiece. The tofu mix can make a filling breakfast when piled onto a slice of toast and topped with an egg, and will be positively delicious stuffed inside a warm tortilla with shredded lettuce, cheese, salsa and jalapenos. Just because it's simple doesn't mean it has to be boring!


Try serving your tofu sloppy joes in lettuce wraps to cut down on fat and calories even more.Use leftover mix to make quick and easy vegetarian nachos., No sloppy joe is complete without a heaping mound of mac and cheese or pillowy tater tots. Those seeking a lighter option can go with a steamed seasonal veggies, sweet potato fries or fruit cocktail. When you comes to comfort foods as simple, healthy and delicious as sloppy joes, it’s hard to go wrong.Balance out the hot sloppy joes with a cool pasta salad, mixed green salad or homemade coleslaw.
Pair tofu sloppy joes with your family’s favorite side dishes or companion recipes.
 Uneaten sloppy joe mix can be placed in an airtight container and kept in the refrigerator for up to a week. To reheat, simply pop the cold mix in the microwave for 45 seconds to a minute at a time, stirring between heatings. Sloppy joes are equally good as an afternoon snack for the kids or an easy dinner for one when the pantry is empty.Sloppy joes are often even better a day or two later, after the flavors of the individual ingredients have had more time to mingle.
Heat hamburger buns or bread separately. Microwaving them for too long can make them tough and chewy.

