 If you have a crush on a guy, it’s better to be prepared. Use natural, moisturizing lip balm at night and every morning. Aim to have moisturized lips all the time, instead of putting on lip balm just before you kiss. It can create a strange taste and sticky texture on your lips.
If your lips are regularly chapped, use a sugar and olive oil lip scrub 3 times per week. Rinse and apply petroleum jelly once you have exfoliated. ;
, If you are just beginning a relationship, increase the number of times you brush to 3 per day, instead of 2. If you have a spontaneous kiss, you will want to feel confident in your breath.


Kissing evolved as a way to gauge your partner’s health. Make sure you are sending the right biological signals. , Even if you just met the person you want to kiss a few hours ago, flirty will make your make out session even better.


Say encouraging things if you want him to think of you as a potential love interest. Try “It sounds like we have a lot in common” or “we have similar tastes.”
Say “Let’s go somewhere less noisy/more private,” if you want to get him alone.
 Sip on a drink through a straw, so you have to pucker your lips slightly. Eat something sweet, like a strawberry or piece of chocolate and let it linger on your mouth.
 Touching his arm and gently brushing your lips on his ear while you whisper can turn him on. Remember that kissing is more fun when you build anticipation. , If you at him and he’s not making a move, encourage him by moving your body closer and pressing your lips to his cheek for a few seconds. Try a phrase like “You’re sweet” to encourage him further.
 Keep your body a few inches away and tilt your head. Use a triangle look, gazing at 1 eye, then the other and then his lips. , Once tension is built, lean in and press your closed lips against his. Part your lips only slightly before you kiss him, and close them over part of his bottom lip, to create some pressure.
 Touch his chest or his back to bring him closer. ,, Open your mouth just a little more with each kiss. You just want a hint of moisture, not a slobber.
 You can even touch your tongue to his lip instead of his tongue once.
 Touch tongues lightly. If your guy wants to get too wet with the kiss too soon, pull away slightly while leaving your mouths open.


Give him a look in the eye while you pause. This tells him you want to take it slow.
, Avoid turning it around like a blender. Keep your kiss as spontaneous as possible. , Gauge whether he likes this by how he reacts. If so, you can incorporate gentle nipping throughout the kissing session. , If you want to keep the session contained to just kissing, you should move your hands over his chest, back, waist, neck and hair.


Some men don’t like it when women grab their hair and others love it. Pay attention so that you can improve the kiss.
 If he has you pinned against a wall or bed, pin him in turn. You can show some playful dominance with this gesture. If you are standing, try sitting or laying down.
 If you have been kissing for 5 minutes, pull away and pay attention to these sensitive areas before starting another kiss.
 Take a moment to decide if this will be only a make out session or something more. Increase the anticipation by leaving him wanting more.

