 Clean and peel the potatoes first, then cut them into cubes. You need enough potatoes to fill 1⅔ (375 grams)., Place the potatoes into a pot and cover them with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of cold water. Add some salt, if desired, then bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat. Once the water starts to boil, reduce it to a simmer. Let the potatoes cook, uncovered, until they are tender.Check the potatoes every 5 minutes. They should be done in 10 to 20 minutes.
 Once the potatoes are cooked through, take them off the stove. Place a colander in the sink, then pour the potatoes into it. Shake the colander gently to remove any excess water, then place the potatoes back into the pot.
 You can do this with a potato masher or with a fork. Keep mashing the potatoes until they are smooth. And lumps or clumps will end up clogging your piping bag., For extra flavor, add in some Parmesan cheese. Mix everything together with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula until evenly combined., Place a piping bag into a cup and fold down the top over the edge of the glass. Use a wooden spoon or rubber spatula to scoop the mashed potato mixture into the bag. Tie off the top and snip off the bottom of the bag.If you want to, you can fit the piping bag with a large, round tip.
No piping bag? No problem. Fill a plastic bag with the potato mixture, tie off the end, then snip off the bottom corner.
 Fill a large skillet about 1inch (2.54 centimeters) deep with oil. Turn on the stove to medium-high heat. Allow the oil to heat up to to 375°F (191°C)., Move the piping bag from center-out to create a tight spiral shape. Try to keep the spiral as flat as you can. The spiral will unravel slightly as they cook to form a looser spiral. You should be able to fit at least three spirals in your skillet., This should take about 2½ to 3 minutes.Once they turn golden, flip them over with a spatula, and cook them for a few more seconds., Use a spatula to transfer the spirals from the skillet to a paper towel. As they drain, you can make more spirals., You can serve them as they are, or you can garnish them further with salt and/or dried herbs. Eat them on their own, or serve them alongside your favorite fry dip, such as ketchup or mustard.

