 After you shower, dry your hair with a diffusing hairdryer nozzle. Dry your hair upside down for added volume. Once dry, turn your head upside down. Scrunch and shake your hair up with your hands.


A diffuser attachment for a hair dryer (which looks like a bowl with little spikes pointing up inside) helps create a wavy/curly effect on hair without the frizz. You place your hair in the bowl, the spikes help guide the hair into ringlets, and the holes in the bottom of the "bowl" let the air from the hair dryer.
 If you want to go for a messier look, try backcombing. Section your hair and, using a backcombing brush, gently tease the hair backward toward the scalp.
 Also sold as beach spray, this gives a much more natural look than gel. Gently spray it onto all of your hair on both sides and on top, then mess up your hair. It will set and is easy to brush out, but will definitely stay put in the wind.
 French braid your hair before going to bed or in the morning. Keep it in for as long as possible, then take it out before styling your scrunchy hair.


For even more scrunchy hair, make multiple French plaits in your hair (e.g. one on either side and one at the back).
You can also use a pony-tail holder to make a bun on top of your head. Braided buns work even better.
If a braid doesn't make your hair as scrunchy as you like, get lots of rubber bands and clip your hair in tiny buns in little sections. Twist your hair and clip until all off your hair is in buns. Leave it overnight and take out the bands.
 Rub a small amount of the oil into your hair before scrunching as described in the first section above. Start with the ends, not the roots. Don't massage coconut oil into your scalp.
 Some people find that these work better for scrunching than using your fingers alone. Using a cotton garment less 'fluffy' than a towel is thought to reduce frizz.
 Use hot curlers or a curling iron to create curls. Once this is done, use a damp hair pick or brush to partially remove the curls. You can leave this as-is or scrunch as described above.


The hair pick is more effective than the brush.

