 The risk of heart problems is significantly lower in patients who eat a heart healthy diet. A heart-healthy diet contains more fiber, vitamins, minerals and less calories and fats, especially saturated fats and trans-fats.


Among meats, red meat contain bad fats, so it should be avoided and poultry and fish should be eaten instead. Salt, sugar and artificial sweeteners should also be avoided.
The American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology recommend heart healthy nutrition for the entire adult population, and suggests the following dietary modifications.;
, Increase your intake of vegetables and fruits as they are rich in vitamins (especially antioxidant vitamins A,C and E which clear the body’s toxic oxygen metabolites), minerals and fiber, but low in bad fats and calories.
 Eat more poultry and fish, especially salmon, trout and herring, as they contain Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids which are good for the strengthening of heart muscles.
 These foods contain low levels of bad fats as compared to products containing saturated fats and trans fats, which cause deposition of cholesterol in the blood vessels.
 It is recommended that you limit your intake of sodium (salt), sweets, sugar-sweetened beverages and red meats. For patients who have high levels of LDL-Cholesterol, additional recommendations are:


Reduce the percentage of calories consumed from saturated fat to 5-6%.
Reduce the percentage of calories consumed from trans fat.
Aim for a total cholesterol score of less than 180 mg/dL, as this is considered optimal.
Discuss methods of achieving these goals with your nutritionist.
 For patients who are suffering from hypertension, additional recommendations are:


Reduce your sodium intake to 1500mg/day, or at least decrease your daily consumption by 1000mg/day, by reducing the consumption of sodium containing salts. Sodium makes the body hold on to water, thus extra water stays in our body.This raises our blood pressure, which increases the risk of atherosclerosis. Therefore, decreased intake of sodium prevents atherosclerosis and thus prevents a reduced oxygen and blood supply to the heart

, Heart-healthy foods should be incorporated into the diet according to personal and cultural preferences; therefore you should consult your doctor/nutritionist about applying these principles in your daily diet.


Appropriate calorie requirements are determined according to the weight and lifestyle of the individual. However, remember that these are general guidelines for the normal adult population.
For patients requiring special dietary management, such as diabetes, appropriate changes should be made accordingly.

