 Double-click on your preferred browser’s icon on your desktop to open it.;
, Click the address bar at the top of your browser, type in www.elance.com, and hit Enter. You will be taken to the Elance home page.
 On the Elance home page, all you have to do is type your email address into the first box at the top of the page, enter your password on the second box, and finally, click “Log in” to access your account.
 Click on your username, which is located on the top-right side of the screen, and a drop-down menu will appear. Click “Profile” from the options to load your profile page.
 Towards the bottom of your profile page, below “Contact Info,” is an option that says “Privacy Settings”; click on this.


Now you can manage your Privacy Settings for your freelancer profile, if you’re the freelancer working for a client, or your client profile, if you’re the client looking for a freelancer.
 Once your privacy settings open, you have two subsections that you can edit. The first subsection is titled “Your Freelancer Profile,” and the first option under this sets your profile so that it does not show up in Elance search results.


This is ideal if you want to pick your own clients instead of receiving invites. Click on the check box if you want to hide your profile.
 This is the second option under “Your Freelancer Profile.” This is useful if you do not want your profile visible to random people using search engines. This is also a simple check box that you can click on to activate.
 You can check the final box in this section if you want your Elance earnings to appear private to everyone who views your profile. If not, just leave the option unchecked.
 Once you have adjusted the privacy settings to your liking click on the green “Save” button at the bottom of the screen. This will save the changes that you made.
 The second set of options under “Privacy Settings” is for “Your Client Profile.” This is used if you are hiring freelancers instead of being the freelance. The first option under this will keep your Elance activity private.


This is an excellent choice if you want to pick your own freelancers yourself. You just need to click the check box to make your activity private.
 This second option is perfect if you do not want random people to stumble upon your Elance page. This option is also a check box and can be activated by clicking the box beside the option name.
 Once you have adjusted the privacy settings to your liking click on the green “Save” button at the bottom of the screen. This will save the changes that you made.