 Try to stick to black and other neutral shades. A black short bandage skirt with a brown tank-top and black converse is a perfect outfit. Otherwise, black sheer tights with a long neutral-colored cardigan is great. Stick to basic outfits like this that show off your beauty. Maybe some jean shorts and a black crop top or t-shirt. Or you could go overboard with maybe a plaid skirt with a blank tank and combat boots. It's really the best to wear whatever you feel comfortable in. Buy a good foundation and concealer, and use this to perfect your skin tone. Also wear black mascara and a thin line of eyeliner on your top lash line and water line. Perfect a makeup routine that leaves your face looking mysterious but fun. Also, be sure to style your hair every day. Consider dying your hair a color that you feel fits your skin tone well. Go to the gym every day for half an hour to get the party girl body and be sure to eat a balanced diet.;
, Beg your parents or even get a weekend job to pay for this if you don't already have it. This is an essential to being a party girl. You will make lots of friends, and will need to be keeping in constant communication with them, but don't ALWAYS text them because then they might get annoyed and not invite you somewhere again. Just make sure you know where the boundaries are.
 Chances are that after changing up your look, you will start to get more attention from guys but even if you don't you can probably approach them yourself now with more confidence in your appearance. If someone is talking to you, talk back casually but be friendly. Don't put too much pep in your words, but don't sound like your bored either. Always think the best in everyone first, and never judge anyone based on their appearance. However locate the other party girls and make it your goal to become friends with them. They will probably look similar to you and can be found hanging out in various locations including but not limited to: the back of the school, outside of a club, outside a bar/liquor store, the mall, a local cafe, etc.
 Try to talk to the person having the party casually. Have a conversation and then you could casually say "So what are you doing over the weekend?" When they mention the party talk about and say "Cool that sounds really fun I haven't been to a party in ages." This is practically an invitation for them to invite you, and if they do sound casual again and say "Yeah I hope I can, I might be busy but should I text you?" But this might backfire and they could say "OH if you're busy then don't worry about it" but they usually won't. Then if you don't already have their number you can get it for them to text you the details. Follow up the next day and text them saying you can come. If they don't invite you, don't stress, there are always new parties happening.
), or depending on the party type, you can wear some jean shorts with a tank top or a crop top or a t-shirt. For makeup, try a mild black smoky eye over your everyday look. If your parents are strict, tell them you are sleeping over at a friends house, and wear a jacket over the top. If you play it right they will never find out. But if you have strict parents this doesn't always work. They might need to speak to the "parents" in which case you can make a friend that they don't know the voice of act as a parent. Or you can always sneak out, but be careful because if you're caught, they'll be more cautious next time. Bring a small wrist-let bag with your cell-phone, at least 20 bucks just in case, your makeup to do touch ups, breath mints, a condom (just in case) and anything else you think you might need.
 Believe it or not, getting really drunk is a downer on everyone because you can become a total hot mess. You can Google how many drinks you can probably drink for your weight and gender. Try to stick to 2 or 3 at the most. Only accept drinks from people you trust, and never ever leave your drink unattended. It doesn't make you a loser to do this... the best party girls all do. It's best to be safe and have fun Keep in mind that in most countries, the drinking age is after you're an adult. Bear in mind that it's illegal to drink underage, and also know the consequences before you drink. Your brain is still developing at your young age, and alcohol or other drugs can severely hinder that. Don't forget about what can happen with your parents and also sometimes things at school. Depending on where you go, you can get kicked out of clubs and other groups. Take my word for it. If you get really drunk, you may regret decisions you've made. Also, don't feel pressured to do anything you don't want to, but don't be scared either. Don't do any drugs because you never know what's in them. Always have money for a taxi just in case, and a crash plan for the night. Never ever get in the car with a drunk driver.
 Hopefully you are there with a friend who will want to go meet some new people with you. If not, go off and just talk to someone who looks nice. Just say "Hey, what's your name?" "What year are you in?" and start a little conversation. If they seem cool, keep talking; if not, go talk to someone else. You might find yourself hooking up. Don't have a one-night stand. Don't do anything other than make out and maybe touch a little. Then get his number before you leave. It's best to not have sex at your first or any party because you don't know who you are messing around with.
 Congrats, now you're officially a party girl. Don't progress it more than that... party girls get lots of attention from guys and can turn into girls who dress way out of their comfort zone, druggies or get into difficult situations. You're a party girl, not a whore. Don't be afraid to say no, or yes. Speak your mind.
 Do at least an hour of homework every night to stay on top of things, and a couple in the weekend. Then you have plenty of time for parties and boys. If you just get your work done before a party, you'll feel so much better.
 Just tell them sorry and that it was a dumb decision and you won't do it again. You can make it more convincing by saying things like "I know I'm stupid" "I shouldn't be friends with those bad influences anymore" "I was scared to say no" etc. After they catch you, lay low for a while.
 If you live in the states or many other countries, you could be in trouble for alcohol use if you've been drinking underage. This could be bad! That's why it is important to leave parties if you feel they are getting too rough and neighbors are getting annoyed. Don't feel the need to stay just because your friend is. You won't be a loser for getting yourself and your friend out of there before the cops bust everyone. However if you are in this situation, be polite and apologetic to the police. Chances are you won't be in too much trouble; the worst thing is that they will notify your parents.
 Don't feel the need to do it just because everyone else is. The important thing is that you're comfortable with your life and your decisions. If your every thought is a worry that one day you'll be caught and you're a nervous wreck, maybe it's time to stop.