 To make Gak, you will need the ingredients above, most of which can be already found in your house! Some of the ingredients, like the food coloring, are not necessities, so if you don’t have them, don’t worry., Over your kitchen sink, fill your empty container one fourth of the way full with Borax. Add water to the container until the container is full, then seal the container.









Make sure to run the water over the sink for a few minutes after you’re done with the Borax. If you don’t do this, the Borax in your sink may clog your pipes., After you’ve checked to make sure the container is tightly sealed, give it a good shake. This will cause the water to become saturated by the Borax. You’ll want to make sure the water is completely saturated before moving on to the next step.
 The more glue you use, the more Gak you’ll be able to make (the volume of your Gak will be two times the amount of glue you use.) To make twice the amount of Gak, use twice the amount of glue.









Double check that you're using non-washable glue. If you use washable glue, the Gak will not form.
Don’t worry too much about the measurements. Even if you’re eye-balling it, it should still work.Make sure your mixing bowl is more than two times bigger than the amount of glue you pour into it. Otherwise, you won’t be able to stir effectively.
You can also try using a large, plastic resealable bag. Mixing in a bag can sometimes be less messy than mixing in a bowl. , If you have doubled your glue amount, make sure to double the amount of water you’re using as well. The amount of water you use should be equivalent to the amount of glue that you use.









Stir the mixture with your hands. You can also use a spoon if you don’t feel like getting dirty., This is an optional step, so if you don’t have food coloring, don’t worry. Thirty drops per small bottle of glue gives a good color, but you should feel free to add as much food coloring as you’d like.









The more drops you add, the deeper your color will be.
Try mixing shades to create a new color. Mix blue and red to make purple or mix blue and yellow to make green.
You can also try making the mixture with glitter.If you mix too many colors, your mixture will turn an unpleasant shade of brown.
You can always make the color darker, but you cannot lighten your color, so it's best to go slowly and add more color later if necessary.
 If you choose to mix the glue mixture with your hands, make sure to put on rubber gloves first. The dye can stain your hands. If your hands do end up getting stained, try soaking a paper towel in white vinegar and then rubbing that towel on your hands.
 Make sure the water is completely saturated with Borax. Once you’ve confirmed that it is, pour one fourth of the Borax mixture into the glue mixture.








If the water is not saturated, shake it until the Borax becomes more evenly distributed.
 You can stir the mixture using an implement, like a spoon, or you can continue to use your hands. As you stir, you will notice that the Gak begins to form almost immediately. Mix the mixture thoroughly and have fun with it!









When you reach the point where the Gak begins to break off in clumps in your hand, add more water from your second cup.
Continue to add water until you reach your desired slime consistency.
If you find that you have too much water in your mixture, just pour the water out., Your Gak is finally complete, so enjoy it! Make sure that when you are not playing with it, that you store it in a sealed container. Otherwise, your Gak will dry out and you will not be able to play with it anymore.








Do not leave your Gak on any fabric, like a couch or a rug. The Gak will dye the fabric.
If you store your Gak in a plastic, sealable bag, it will last forever.
If your Gak gets a little dried out, trying adding some water.
If your Gak is sticky, add a little more Borax.
When your slime starts to feel like powder in your hands, it’s time to throw it out. Make a new batch and start fresh!

