 It is a flash based web application, and no download is necessary. Go to IDCreator.com and click the orange "Launch ID Creator" button.;
, From here, you can double-click a pre-made template design or click a blank workspace to start from scratch.
 The text tool allows you to insert text in a text box. After selecting the text button, click the location on the card where you want to insert the text. After inserting the text field, you can change the text in the “Edit Text” window. You can also customize the font, color and size. The size of the text box can be modified either in the “Edit Text” window or by clicking the edges of the box in the designer.
 The little arrow on the shape tool allows you to switch between lines, squares, and circles. Click and drag on the card workspace where you would like the shape. You can resize the dimensions and rotate the shape in the “Edit Geometric Shape” panel or directly on the shape by selecting a point on the edge and dragging. You can also edit the shape colors, line thickness, and opacity in the Edit Geometric Shape Panel.
 The image button allows you to import and insert your own images. Images once inserted can be resized, cropped, and rotated. The max image file size for upload is 1MB and jpg, gif, and png file types are supported.
 This barcode button allows you to generate and insert barcodes. Five barcode symbols are supported: Code 128, Code 39, PDF417, Data Matrix, and UPC-A.
 To move objects in front of or behind other objects, simply select the object and click the move up or move down buttons.
 If using the printing service, data can be encoded on all three tracks of the magnetic stripe. In the backside options in the card properties panel, select include magnetic stripe and enter your data.
 You must be registered and logged into save your card design.
 From here, you can either ORDER PRINTED CARDS or PRINT AT HOME.
 You will then be able to print this using any computer and any inkjet or laser printer. To replicate a professionally printed PVC card from a printer such as a Fargo, we suggest printing on Artisyn synthetic paper and laminating with a seamless butterfly laminating pouch. Arcadia ID as well as ID creator sell Print@Home ID kits. Print@Home kits come with either Artisyn synthetic paper that is perforated with ID card punch-outs that match exactly with ID creator’s 8-up PDF export. The kits also include seamless butterfly laminating pouches and hologram overlays. Only by using Teslin synthetic paper and butterfly pouches can one create an edge to edge ID card that looks identical to PVC cards produced from a professional printer.
 Punch out the ID card insert after printing and laminate using a butterfly pouch. If you are trying to create ID cards that are the same thickness as professionally printed PVC cards (30 mil) you will need to use 10 mil butterfly pouches. Print@Home kits include laminators with the necessary heating capacity to laminate these thick pouches. Kits using Artisyn synthetic papers create ID cards that look exactly like professionally printed PVC cards.
 The cards are then printed in high definition on durable PVC composite cards from a Fargo printer and mailed next day.

