 If your friend or partner is often reaching out to talk, he probably misses you when you’re not around. Everyone has different styles around communication, but frequent phone calls and messages are a good sign of investment in a relationship., When someone misses you, he will sound engaged and eager when you do speak. If your friend sounds distracted when you’re catching up after a long time, it may be a sign that he didn’t miss you.
 If you feel anxious or insecure when your partner is away, it’s better to be honest about it. Asking, “Did you miss me?” or “Do you still love me?” is unlikely to address your real feelings. If your partner says, “Yes,” you might not believe her, while if she says, “No,” you’ll feel even worse. Instead, ask directly for the reassurance that you need.For example, you could say: “I’ve had a terrible day and I’m feeling pretty lonely and insecure tonight. Can you indulge me with some extra support and tell me that you love me and miss me?”

, If your friend or partner shares images or links that made her think of you, it means just that: she’s thinking of you. When you are not together, you are still in your friend’s mind.


Presents are another way of demonstrating caring and engagement. Even if you don’t always love the thing a friend or partner got you, recognize that this, too, is evidence that she was thinking about you when you were not together.If he is eager to tell you about the details of his boring conference or flight connections, recognize that it’s probably because he wants to keep talking to you. Sharing mundane details is a way of maintaining connection across distance and shows that he misses you when you are apart., If you are far apart, it may be harder to read the signs of affection in your partner’s body. If you can talk by video, look for a tilted head and sustained eye-contact. Over the phone, a softer or higher tone of voice conveys intimacy., Pair bonding between couples means that separation can cause increased stress and anxiety. If she is especially worried or unsettled while you are apart, it may be that she is missing you.