 While you may have huge ambitions for your political career, remember that Rome wasn’t built in a day. Politics is one of those careers wherein you really need to spend some time in the lower levels before moving up. If you are young and don’t have some pretty significant accomplishments already under your belt then this is especially the case. Here are some good starting points:


School Board: Becoming a member of your local school board is straightforward and relatively easy, and it may give you a chance to connect with some important people in your area. Having this on your resume will allow you to more easily move up the ladder.
City Council: This will be very similar to running for a school board, but you’ll deal with more than just the education system.
City Mayor: For smaller cities and towns, becoming Mayor likely won’t be overly difficult if you are well liked and have some experience. It is also an excellent starting point for your political career.
State Legislator: Running for state legislature is a way to really get into the political system. Most times these politicians are paid well, and they have influence on a much broader scale than any local office. Having this on your resume gives you the ability to make the jump to the next step anytime.
 While it may seem a bit corny, this part is integral to success. If you don't believe in yourself, you'll call it quits at 10 PM when your opponents are burning the 2 AM oil. Knowing you have the goods is often half the battle.


Because perseverance is so necessary for the battles you're about to endure, it's imperative that you stay motivated. You'll only keep up the drive if you believe you can ultimately better your neighborhood, community, state, and the lives of those around you. Surround yourself with others to help pick you up when you fall -- they'll help remind you to believe in yourself when it seems like the hardest thing to do.
 In order to run for any office, you need money. Ideally, this wouldn't be your own. With the years of work you've put in by now, hopefully it's not too much of an issue. Assemble a team of people you can depend on to get the collection envelopes out for you while you wine and dine prospective donors.


A good place to start is with a "Friends & Family" list. When you don't have the adequate name power, this'll be how you get the party started. Basically, you'll be hitting up everyone from that awkward college roommate to the bartender you spoke to once in your local Chili's. Think of it as a list of people that range from childhood friends to people you stood next to once at one of Barack Obama's speeches.
 Before you start to make preparations for your campaign, you should make sure that you have your other affairs all in line. First and foremost, make sure you have your finances all in order. If your bid for election is unsuccessful, you’ll suddenly find yourself unemployed. So before you make the decision to run for an office, make sure you have enough money saved up to last for at least a few months after the campaign is over.


After that, make sure you settle all things well with any current employers. Let them know that you are running for office, and what the possible outcomes are. Chances are they will support you and help you as much as they can if you give them advance warning.
Lastly, make sure your friends and family are totally aware of what your decision means. They need to know the responsibilities you’ll have if you are elected, as well as how busy you’ll be during an election year. The last thing you want to do is make someone important to you unhappy because you didn’t give them a clear picture of what would be happening.

