 Minecraft has a built-in console feature that allows you to type in cheats at your command. However, you need to enable cheats in your game before you can use them in the console. There are several ways to do this:In a single player game: Click the "More World Options..." button while setting up your game. On the next page, use the "Allow Cheats" button to make sure cheats are set to "ON."

In a multiplayer game: Cheats can be enabled by the host of the game — either the person hosting the LAN connection or the person who created the game server — in the same way as in a single player game. In these cases, typically only the host can use cheats.
In some multiplayer games, cheats can be enabled mid-game by moderators (i.e., "operators") and even scripts from command blocks.;
, Once the game has started, bring up the console. By default, this is done by pressing "T". You can also press "/" to open the console with a forward slash pre-typed — since all of the commands start with a forward slash, this is a helpful shortcut.


To be clear, the console is the same thing as the "chat window" you may be familiar with from multiplayer games.
 There are many, many commands and cheats that you can type in to affect your game. In the section below, you can find a short list of some of the most entertaining commands. Note that this list is by no means complete — it's just meant to give you a taste of the console's capabilities., There are several different ways to find complete lists of all of the Minecraft console commands available to you. These are available both in-game and online. See below:


The command /help will give you a list of commands to choose from. There are four different pages which can be accessed by putting a number after the /help command (e.g., /help3).
You can also input "/" and then press TAB to cycle through the commands individually.
Finally, you can also find a complete list of commands online at the Minecraft Wiki here., Sick of slaving away in the mines to find enough diamonds for your suit of armor? Use this command to get what you want right away.


Note: the <item> value you input must be a valid Minecraft item ID (see here for a complete list.)Example: "/give Joe123 minecraft:iron_pickaxe 10" gives player Joe123 10 iron pickaxes.
 Nothing's more annoying than suffering a surprise death to a creeper and having to walk all the way back to the base you built with your friend on the other side of the map. With this command, you can get back to where you want to be right away.


Note: You can also use "/tp <x> <y> <z>" to teleport to a specific x/y/z coordinate.
Note: If you leave out the target player and just type your destination, you will teleport yourself.
Examples: "/tp Joe123 Jane456" will teleport player Joe123 to player Jane456. "/tp Joe123 100 50 -349" will teleport Joe123 to x/y/z coordinates 100, 50, -340.
 Enchantments can be some of the most challenging, time-consuming assets to get in the entire game. With this cheat, however, your items will be as strong as you want them right away.


Note: Your enchantment must be a valid Minecraft enchantment ID (see here for a complete list.)Notes: Enchantment is applied to the item the player is holding and only works if the enchantment is appropriate for the item (e.g., fishing rod enchantments won't work on bows, etc.) Level must be between 1 and the enchantment's max level; if no level is specified, the level defaults to 1.
Example: "/enchant Joe123 minecraft:protection" gives player Joe123 the Protection III enchantment to any armor he is holding.
 Looking to get some target practice in on a handful of pesky Creepers? This command lets you spawn animals, mobs, and even things like lightning bolts wherever you want.


Note: the entity name must be a valid Minecraft entity ID (see here for a complete list.)Note: If you don't specify coordinates, the entity will spawn at your location.
Example: "/summon Creeper -100 59 450" summons a creeper at the x/z coordinates -100, 59, 450.
 This command is mostly for aesthetic reasons — with it, you can change the in-game weather from nice to lousy whenever you want.


Example: "/weather rain 1000" makes it rain for 1,000 seconds.
 If you're looking to tick off your friends or punish griefers, this command can come in handy. Use caution, though — many players won't take kindly to being killed instantly!


Note: If you don't specify a player (i.e., "/kill"), you will kill yourself.
Note: For really bad players, use /ban in exactly the same way as a more permanent solution.
Example: "/kill Joe123" would kill player Joe123.

