 You will need to officially register your bakery with your state before you can open up shop. Sole proprietorships have the simplest requirements, followed by partnerships, and then private corporations. Check with your state to determine what the exact requirements are for registration. Most states require, at minimum, the completion of a registration form and a fee.;
, Choosing where to set up shop will determine how successful you are at making a profit.


On the legal side of things, you need to make sure that whatever building you choose is zoned for a food service business and able to pass health inspections.
On the financial side of things, you need to decide whether to rent, lease, or purchase the building. Renting or leasing may minimize your start-up costs, and buying a building outright will usually require you to get a loan that you may have trouble acquiring unless you can show the bank that you are able to repay them.
On the business side of things, you must select a building in a location that will embrace the presence of an organic bakery. A shop near a business or college campus is usually ideal, while food service businesses in predominantly residential areas tend not to thrive as well. Cities are also better than rural areas, since lovers of organic food tend to hang around the city more than they do the small town. Also bear in mind that organic food tends to cost more than non-organic, so you should avoid neighborhoods that are struggling financially.
 Without a license, you cannot legally prepare and sell your baked goods. License fees vary, but they can be around $70 depending on the state you live in. You usually obtain a license from the local department of health, but if you are not sure what local agency handles licensing in your state, you can contact your local secretary of state to find out.
 The kitchen of your bakery needs an industrial oven, sink, freezer, and refrigerator, at minimum. You also need baking supplies like mixers, spatulas, and bowls. Outside of the kitchen, you will need a display counter and a cash register, as long as any tables or chairs you deem necessary for anyone who may want to sit down inside the bakery. Purchase the equipment or look for a restaurant or supply chain that may be willing to rent it out.
 In order to get a permit for your bakery, you will need to pass inspections from health inspectors, fire marshals, and other city officials.
 If you have a small enough bakery, you can get away with staffing only a couple of other people aside from yourself. Keep in mind how physically straining it can be working in a bakery, though. You can only do so much yourself, and only someone who is truly dedicated to the work will be willing to put in the effort they will need to exert.

