 Talk with the minister of your potential congregation about what you will need to do in both the long and short term. You can talk about whether or not a baptism is necessary. Or, if you will need other Christians as sponsors. You can also request that they lay out the timeline of necessary events.


For example, in the Catholic faith, you must express your desire to be baptized and take on the label of “Catechumen.” You will then begin the process of learning about Catholicism, a period which can last for months., As you are exploring conversion and after you’ve converted, make sure to stay involved in your local church. Attend sermons and activities. Talk with your minister or pastor on a regular basis. You can also keep track of national and international developments in Christianity via the internet., Almost all Christian denominations embrace the idea of a “learning period” for those persons pursuing conversion and many churches even offer classes aimed at new members. In a class of this type, you would continue to familiarize yourself with the Bible, while also learning more about your church’s membership requirements., Your Christian denomination may require that you write down your sins in a book, speak with a minister, or simply contemplate your sins on an everyday basis. This will help to pave your way to salvation through the process of repentance., Again, this will be something that you’ll need to do privately. However, you may also be asked to verbally affirm your beliefs and commitment, sometimes in front of the entire congregation. For example, the minister might ask you, “Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the savior?” You would then answer in the affirmative.You may also perform this affirmation as a group alongside other new members., You will need to be partially submerged or touched with holy water as part of a baptism. This reflects you being purified and you will usually become a full-fledged Christian and church member at this point. In the case of Catholicism, you may also be asked to receive the Eucharist. You may receive a Christian name as well.A baptism can be a private event between you and your priest or may take place in front of an audience, such as the entire congregation., After your baptism and statement of faith is complete, your congregation may throw a celebration. Depending on their traditions, this event may involve singing, dancing, or just talking. Make sure to fully participate in these events to continue to demonstrate your commitment to the community., As a new member, make sure to attend as many church-sponsored events as possible. Be aware of the sermon schedule and organize your plans around it, too. Some churches will have moral guidelines as well, such as prohibitions against drinking alcohol. If you have any questions about what constitutes a violation of church rules, ask your minister.

