 Either make your own dumpling skins (see the process above) or buy dumpling skins from an Asian market or the ethnic foods aisle of your grocery store.
 Dumplings can be filled with a wide variety of things. You can make your dumplings vegetarian or fill them with ground meat or seafood, according to your tastes.Most dumplings are traditionally filled with a combination of ground meats and finely-chopped vegetables. Here are a few filling ideas:


Ground pork, chopped shrimp, and chopped cabbage
Chopped cabbage, and shaved carrots
Chopped shrimp, chopped cabbage, and cilantro
Mashed potatoes and mushrooms
Berries and sugar (for a sweet dumpling)

, Scoop a small amount of the desired filling onto the center of the dumpling. Be sure you have enough to fill the dumpling, but not so much that the dumpling cannot be easily sealed shut. You probably need less filling than you think you need., Fold the edges of the dumplings towards each other and pinch them together.Be sure no excess flour or meat is in the way of the dough adhering to itself. Pinch the dough tightly across the top, then fold the pinched part towards you to make a crescent-shaped dumpling., If you are not going to eat all of the dumplings at once, the best way to store them is uncooked, after you have assembled them. Place dumplings on a cookie sheet in the freezer until they are frozen, then transfer them into a large freezer bag or other airtight container. No need to defrost them when you are ready to cook them later., Cook the dumplings in a large non-stick pan that has a lid. Oil the pan and preheat it over medium-high heat.
 They can touch each other while cooking. Once all of the dumplings are in the pan, add water to the pan until the bottom third of the dumplings are submerged in water.
 Cover the dumpling pan and cook over medium high (or high) heat for about 20 minutes. Check to ensure that the dumplings still have water around them, and add water if the pan starts to go dry.


Check the bottoms of the dumplings to ensure that they are not burning.
Adjust the cooking temperature as necessary.
When the dough on top of the dumplings appears to be cooked, remove the lid and allow the water to cook off.
Allow the dumpling bottoms to sizzle for a few moments to add a crispy flair to your dumpling, but do not allow them to burn.If you think your dumplings are done, remove a larger dumpling and cut it open. Check the temperature of the filling with a meat thermometer to ensure that the meat has cooked thoroughly.
 Alternatively, you can drop the dumplings into a large pan of boiling water. This will slightly change the texture of your wrappers. You can try cooking either way and see which type of dumpling you prefer.
 If you have allowed the bottoms of your dumplings to crisp, serve them with the crisped side facing up. Also serve with a dipping sauce or soy sauce.

