 Depending on the symptoms, the doctor may need to run a few non-invasive imaging tests on the injured foot. The most common tests are x-rays, CT (Computerized Tomography) scans, and MRIs (Magnetic Resonance Imaging). These techniques allow the doctor to examine the foot for broken bones and monitor the bones as they heal., In many cases, surgery is not necessary for proper treatment of a broken foot.Often the hospital will put the foot in a hard cast and/or provide crutches to keep the weight off the foot.The doctor will likely advise you to keep the foot elevated and ice the injury to prevent swelling and re-injury.When using crutches, put your weight on your arms and hands. Do not put all your weight on your armpits, which could hurt the nerves that are in your underarms.
Follow your doctor's orders! Failure to comply with keeping your weight off the foot is the number one cause of delayed healing and re-injury for fractures., You may be advised to take over-the-counter NSAIDs (Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflamatory Drugs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve). These will help reduce the pain and swelling associated with the healing process.If you are scheduled to undergo surgery you may need to stop taking medication a week before the surgery takes place. Consult with your doctor or surgeon.Take the smallest dose possible to manage your pain. Stop taking NSAIDs after 10 days to avoid complications.
Your doctor may also recommend upping your consumption of calcium and vitamin D, which are both crucial for bone health., For most foot injuries, your doctor will try to give your foot time to heal itself by putting on a cast and limiting your activity. In some cases, though, your injured foot may need a manipulation (known as an ORIF, or open reduction internal fixation) if the broken ends of the bone are misaligned. This involves the movement of the bone into the proper alignment, after which pins are passed through the skin to hold the bone in place while it heals. The healing process for a reduction takes an average of 6 weeks, after which the pins are easily removed.In more severe cases you may need surgery to implant screws or rods to keep the foot in position while it heals., Even if your injury doesn't require surgery, an orthopedic doctor or podiatric surgeon will be able to monitor the healing process. In the event of re-injury or other impairments to the healing process, the doctor will prescribe the appropriate treatment, therapy, or surgery.