 While some people choose to discuss medication with a general practitioner, you may choose to seek the support and expertise of an expert in mental health, such as a psychiatrist. You can discuss drug interactions, side-effects, and dosage with a psychiatrist.


A mental health professional will guide you in considering your options and making an informed decision regarding medication.;
, Discuss all medications you are currently taking with your prescriber. This also includes any vitamins, herbs, and supplements. Communicate any allergies or adverse effects you’ve encountered with other medications.You may also include a family history of medication use if known.


Prepare your medication history before your appointment. Write down what medications you take and any interactions you’ve had with medications.
 For many, therapy and medication together is effective at treating severe depression. While medication can help manage symptoms of depression, therapy can help you approach life more productively. Therapy can help bring awareness to thoughts and behaviors and change them to be more adaptive.


For many individuals, therapy alone is the best course of treatment.Some studies have shown that cognitive therapy is as effective as medication., Follow your prescriber’s directions when taking medication. Your prescriber may indicate when to take medication (morning, afternoon or night), whether to include food, and how often to take your dose.


Some studies show that using a low dose of TCAs is beneficial in reducing symptoms and decreasing the risk of side-effects.Do not “double dose” or skip doses. Stick to a regular schedule of taking medication.
 Some people may notice effects within a few days. With TCAs, it’s common for people to experience effects after 2-4 weeks after the medication has had time to build up in the body. Even if the medication feels ineffective, it’s recommended to wait 3-4 weeks before switching to another medication or stopping completely.Do not increase your dose if you feel like the medication is not working. Stick with it, and if you are concerned, contact your provider.
 Higher doses of TCAs can cause serious health problems. Some medical doctors may periodically take blood tests to ensure the medications are not adversely affecting health.These tests measure the levels of TCAs in the bloodstream.
 Do not share medication with friends or family members, and do not sell medication. If you think someone you know may benefit from TCAs, refer them to a prescriber. Do not share your dose. Under no circumstances is it advised to share medications.Recognize the risks of sharing medication. For instance, the individual may have a drug allergy or experience very negative side-effects.
 If you are already on TCAs, let your doctor know about your plans around pregnancy. You may need to adjust your dose or stop taking medication altogether. Discuss your concerns with your doctor.
 Stopping medication abruptly or skipping doses can create withdrawal symptoms in the body. Symptoms may include nausea, sweating, flu-like symptoms, headache, dizziness, and muscle cramping. Before stopping, talk about ending your course of medication with your prescriber. He or she will help you taper your doses gradually to minimize withdrawal symptoms., TCAs can cause unpleasant side-effects. The most common side-effects include dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation, urinary retention, drowsiness, increased appetite/weight gain, and sweating. More serious side-effects include disorientation or confusion, tremors, irregular heartbeat, low sex drive or difficulty with orgasm, and more frequent seizures in people who have seizures.Discuss the risks of TCAs carefully with your prescriber prior to beginning medication.
 Each person will respond differently to medication, so it’s important to be aware of any unpleasant side-effects you may encounter. You may try several medications to find one that suits you and is effective.Do not deviate from the prescribed dose, but use as directed.


Keep a journal of any changes you notice in your thoughts and behaviors, both good and bad.
 Monitor any side-effects of the medication, especially within the first few weeks. Notice any changes in thoughts, moods, or behaviors as related to medication use. Keep track of emerging or persistent symptoms and discuss them during regular visits with your prescriber., Let your prescriber know if you experience any negative side-effects. If you feel like the side-effects are not worth the benefits of the medication, communicate this to your prescriber. Your dosage may be adjusted or you may try a different medication.Any major impacts such as hallucinations, confusion, or major health upsets should be reported to your prescriber right away.
 The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States of America requires that all antidepressant medication receive a black box warning, the strictest warning for prescription drugs. Children, teenagers, and young adults can be at increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors while taking TCAs. Risk is highest in the first months of taking medications as well as around any changes in dosage.If you experience suicidal thoughts or behaviors seek help immediately. Go to the Emergency Department, call a hotline, or contact a friend to help you. Contact your therapist and psychiatrist immediately.
 While taking TCAs, you can run the risk of getting Serotonin Syndrome, which means the body is flooded with too much serotonin. Dangerously high serotonin levels lead to anxiety, agitation, confusion, tremors, restlessness, lack of coordination, and rapid heart rate. If you experience these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately.The most common reason for serotonin syndrome occurs when individuals mix TCAs with St. John’s Wort. If you take St. John’s Wort, talk to your prescriber about it during your appointment.
Take extra precaution if you have one of the following diagnoses: a heart condition, prostate enlargement, glaucoma, hyperthyroidism, epilepsy, liver problems, or bipolar disorder., TCAs can make the effects of alcohol stronger. It’s important to set limits while taking TCAs. Talk to your prescriber about healthy limits for alcohol consumption while taking TCAs., TCAs have the potential to be abused and misused.Use TCAs only as directed by your prescriber.


When taking TCAs, take only the prescribed dose. Do not increase or decrease your dose without notifying your prescriber.
 An overdose of TCAs can include seizures, altered mental state, hypotension and other symptoms. Some people have taken lethal doses of TCAs. If the person does not reach medical treatment, the chance of death is about 70%. In those that do reach medical treatment, chance of death decreases to 2-3%.