 Though you may find it hard to sleep the night before your race, you should try to get to bed as early as you can and wake up with plenty of time to get ready for the race. You should also focus on getting a lot of rest not just the night before the race, but the day before that as well as earlier that week.


If you haven't already, you should spend the week before the race waking up around the same time as you will for the race to get your body in gear.
Part of being well-rested means having your body feel rested as well. Don't train the day before the race. Take it easy the two days before the race.
 Check the forecast the night before so you can lay out the clothes you need right then instead of scrambling to find them in the morning. Remember not to overdress; your body will warm up once you start running.


If it's a bit chilly in the morning, wear a sweatshirt to the race and leave it with a friend or at the check-in for your belongings.
 Before you start the race, you should not only know where the course is, but you should know what the course looks like. If the course is near you, then you'll be even more confident if you've practiced running along it before race day. Here's what you should know:


What does the course look like? Is it a circle, or a line from one path to another? Are there hills, or is it flat? If you know where the hills are, it'll be easier to prepare for them mentally.
Where are the water stations? You should know where they are so you can use them as landmarks.
Where are the bathrooms? Though the race will be short, knowing where the bathrooms are can put you at ease.
 You don't need to carbo-load the night before a 5K race or the morning of the race. Eating too much, or to soon before the race, can leave you feeling stuffed or give you some digestive trouble. Here's what you should and should not eat:


The night before a 5K, eat around six or seven o'clock in the evening, so you don't go to bed feeling stuffed. Eat simple carbs like whole grain pasta, bread, or rice, and some protein like chicken and fish. You can eat a little bit of vegetables, which have fiber, for balance, but remember that they will be more likely to upset your digestive system.
Eat at least 1.5 to 2 hours before the race. You should be at the finish line feeling neither hungry nor full. If you're hungry, you may run out of energy, and if you're too full, you may feel too sluggish to run at your normal pace.
Focus on eating carbs the morning of the race.
If you normally have caffeine, have a little bit of coffee or tea, but be aware that it could hurt your digestive system.
 Get to the race at least half an hour early so you have enough time to pick up your bib and other race materials, to use the bathroom, and to get warmed up. Once you get to the race, you should work on getting in the zone, and doing whatever you have to do to have an amazing race day. Here are a few things you can do:


Maintain a positive attitude. You should be excited to be surrounded by other runners, not intimidated or nervous. Remember that's not really a race. You're not there to win first place, but to try your hardest and improve your fitness.
Listen to your favorite "pump up" music. If you love running to music, pick your favorite jams and bob to them at the starting line.
Jog a little bit to get yourself in the grove. Don't sprint a mile before the race. Just jog fifty feet from time to time to get your body active and get your limbs warmed up.
Stretch. Don't forget to stretch before the big race. Do the stretches you've been working on throughout your training.
 Remember that the 5K is the last extension of your training practice. You shouldn't try to sprint your hardest at the beginning because it feels like everyone is running fast, and you shouldn't run much slower than you normally do because you're afraid of running out of energy.


Check your watch from time to time to make sure you're relatively on schedule. Race day will fill you with adrenaline, so don't be surprised if you're going a bit faster than usual. That's okay as long as you don't feel exhausted after the first five minutes.
Stop for water breaks. Use this time to slow down for a second and get hydrated. You don't have to stop at every station if you're really feeling pumped, but try to make a habit of it.
Don't forget to have fun! Don't huff and puff through your first 5K. It's hard work, but you should have a big smile on your face when you cross that finish line!

