 Many people have the disease for years without knowing it because symptoms usually don't develop until adulthood. Go to the doctor if you have the following symptoms:Headaches
Hypertension, also called high blood pressure
A distended abdomen
Pain in your back or side
The need to urinate often
Excretion of blood in your urine
Kidney stones
Urinary infections or kidney infections
Kidney failure
Protein in the urine
Flank pain
Renal hemorrhage
Kidney Stones;
, If you have a parent with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, you have a 50% chance of having it too.If you have the disorder and you have children, there is a 50% chance that you will pass it on to them. You can pass it on to them even if your partner does not have the disorder. One parent having it is enough to pass it on.
If you have a grandparent with the disorder, you have a 25% chance of having inherited the disorder.
Occasionally the disorder arises due to a mutation in a family where there is no history of the disorder, but this is very rare.
 There are several tests that the doctor may do to determine whether you have cysts on your kidneys. Tell your doctor if you think you may be pregnant because this may affect the doctor’s decision of which tests to run. Possible tests include:An ultrasound. This procedure uses sound waves that are higher than we can hear to make a picture of your internal organs. The sound waves are transmitted through your body and bounce off the tissues. The machine converts the information from the reflected sound waves into a picture. This does not hurt and is not dangerous for you. The doctor may use gel on your skin to make a better connection between your body and the ultrasound device. The procedure will last a few minutes.
A computerized tomography (CT) scan. A CT scanner uses x-rays to make cross-sectional pictures of your internal organs. You may be given a contrast material to make the organs show up better on the x-ray images. This can be done by having you swallow a liquid or by injecting it into a vein. While the scan is occurring you will lie on a table that will move you into the scanner. You may hear noises coming from the machine. The doctor will communicate with you through an intercom. The procedure may last about half an hour and will not hurt.A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. An MRI machine uses magnets and radio waves to create cross-sectional images of your body. Because this test uses magnets, it is important that you tell the doctor if you have any metal or electronic implants in your body. This could include heart valves, a pacemaker, a heart defibrillator, shrapnel, bullet fragments, or a prosthetic joint. Your doctor may also give you a contrast material to make your kidneys show up better on the pictures. While the scan is being performed, you will lie on a table that moves into the scanner. The scan will not hurt, but you may hear loud noises. You will be asked to lie still, but you will be able to communicate with the doctor over a microphone. If you are worried about feeling claustrophobic, ask the doctor if you can receive a sedative., Keeping your blood pressure from being too high is important for reducing the speed at which your kidneys are damaged. Talk to your doctor to make a customized health plan that fits your lifestyle and health condition. Possible ways to reduce your blood pressure include:Eating a low salt, low fat diet. You can do this by reducing the amount of salt and fat that you cook with. Avoid salting meats and instead of frying them, try grilling, roasting, or baking them instead. Choose lean meats like poultry and fish. If you eat fatty meats, trim off the fat and remove the skin. Increase the amount of fruits and vegetables you eat. They are low in fat and high in fiber. When purchasing canned fruits and vegetables, look for foods that have been canned in water rather than salty water or sugary syrups.Quit smoking. Smoking hardens your arteries and increases your blood pressure. Smoking can help reduce your chances of developing cancer and lower your blood pressure. If you need help quitting, talk to your doctor about options such as joining support groups, trying nicotine replacement therapy or residential treatment.Increase the amount of exercise you get. Talk to your doctor or physical therapist about what will be best for your health condition. In general, the Department of Health and Human Services recommends that people do 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes of high-intensity aerobic activity, such as running, swimming, biking, or walking per week and strength training training, like weight lifting, twice per week. This will help you to lower your blood pressure, manage your weight, and relieve stress.Reduce stress. Stress causes people’s blood pressure to increase. If you have recently been diagnosed with polycystic kidney disease, this alone is likely to be extremely stressful. Try using relaxation techniques to help you cope. Some people find the following to be helpful: yoga, meditation, deep breathing, visualizing calming images, or Tai Ch.
Take blood pressure medications. If your doctor feels it is necessary for you to use medication to control your blood pressure, make sure you give your doctor a complete list of all other medications, both prescription and over-the-counter medications, vitamins, supplements, and herbal remedies that you are taking. This is important so that the doctor can make sure that they won’t interact with each other. Common medications that may be prescribed for people with polycystic kidney disease are angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin-2 receptor blockers (ARBs). ACE inhibitors can often cause a cough-like side effect. Talk to your doctor about other treatment options if this happens to you.
 Many people with polycystic kidney disease have chronic pain in their back or their side. This can occur if the cysts are large and causing pressure.Severe pain may require surgery to remove or drain the cysts.
Milder pain is likely to be treated with medications. Depending on the severity of your pain, the doctor may suggest an over-the-counter painkiller like paracetamol or a prescription strength medication like codeine, tramadol, an antidepressant, or an anticonvulsant. The latter two are more often used for chronic pain.
Do not take over-the-counter non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen without first discussing it with your doctor. These medications may affect your kidneys or interact with blood pressure medications.
 Drink plenty of fluid so that you urinate frequently and flush out your urinary tract. This will help prevent stones from forming or help smaller ones pass. If they are too large, to do this the doctor may recommend one of two procedures:Extracorporal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) to break up the stones. Once the stones are smaller, you may be able to pass them naturally. You will receive painkillers during this procedure to relieve any discomfort that it causes.
Ureterorenoscopy. During this procedure the doctor inserts a small scope into your urethra, bladder, and ureter. The doctor may remove the stone or use a laser to break it up so you can pass the pieces naturally. This would be done under general anesthesia.
 Urinary tract infections are usually effectively treated with antibiotics, drinking plenty of water, and taking a painkiller, such as paracetamol, to relieve discomfort. Contact your doctor immediately if you develop a urinary tract infection. It is important that it be treated immediately to prevent it from spreading to the cysts where it is harder for the antibiotics to reach. If this happens your doctor may need to drain the cysts. Monitor yourself for the following symptoms of a urinary tract infection:Needing to urinate often
Cloudy or bloody urine
Urine that has a strange, bad smell
Pain when urinating or a constant dull pain in your pubic area
Back pain
Fever or shivering
Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea

, If you develop cysts on your liver your doctor may suggest several options, depending upon their severity:Not undergoing hormone therapy
Draining the cysts
Removing cystic parts of the liver
Getting a liver transplant

, Your doctor will likely do regular blood tests to evaluate any changes in kidney function. If your kidneys start to fail, there are two major options:Dialysis. Dialysis is necessary when your kidneys can no longer filter your blood. During this procedure your blood is cleaned and waste products are removed. There are two techniques.

During haemodialysis you will need to undergo three several-hour-long treatments per week. Your blood will be passed through an external machine and then rerouted into your body.
The other option, peritoneal dialysis, can be done at home at night while you sleep. You will have a small catheter inserted permanently into the space in your abdomen. Your blood will be pumped through the blood vessels of the peritoneal cavity and waste products will be drawn into the dialysis fluid. This takes less than an hour, but must be done four times per day or while you sleep. If dialysis is necessary, your doctor will help you determine which method would be best for you.



Kidney transplant. It may be necessary for you to receive a new, functional kidney. You will need someone who is a close genetic match to you. Close relatives are often good matches.

