 This will bring you to the Yahoo home page. From here, look at the top left of the page for the "Mail" button; click on that to continue.;
, Enter your Yahoo ID and password at the right side of the screen; click on the appropriate box, then fill in the information. When you are finished, click the purple "Sign-In" button.
 Look at the top right of your screen; you will see a small gear. Click on the gear and a drop-down menu will appear. Click on "Settings" to open up your Yahoo settings.
 Now that you are on the settings box, you will see a list of different pages. The very last item on the list reads “Messenger.” Click on that to open up your messenger settings.
 You will now have your list of settings to manipulate as you see fit.


The first option is the “Sign out.” This dictates whether you sign out of the last place you used if you sign in using a new device. You can also set it to sign you off “everywhere,” meaning you do not have to worry about compromising your account. Click on the drop-down menu and select the one you see fit.
The second option reads “Sound alerts.” This is a check box where you choose whether you want to hear a sound when you receive a new chat or text message. You can turn this on and off by clicking on the box.
The next option is called “Visible contacts.” This is a simple check box that you can check or uncheck by clicking on it. This determines whether you can see your contacts or not on your messenger and email.
The next section is for blocking users. You will notice there are two options; you just need to click on the bubble that suits your needs the best. The first bubble blocks all users that are on your contact list. This means that nobody can contact you if they have not added you as a contact on Yahoo. The second bubble lets you custom pick whom you block. Right below the second bubble is a box where you can type in users you want to block. In order to pick which bubble you want to use, just click on the one that works for you.
Below the blocking features, you will see a line that reads “Conversation history.” You can either check this box or leave it empty by clicking on it. This will determine if Yahoo keeps a copy of your conversations to view later.
This final option reads “SMS message home country.” This is for if you move away from your current location. It is a drop-down menu that you can pick your country from.
 When you are finished, go back through and double-check all your choices. When you are satisfied with your selections, click on the blue "Save" button at the bottom corner of the box to confirm your changes.

