 If you are considering ending a friendship because of a particular problem or issue you have with your friend, let them know. Real friends will always be honest with each other and address any problems they have with one another directly.


Do not make casual remarks about a problem you want to address with your friend. For instance, if your friend does not listen to you and instead always insists on doing things their way, be assertive and draw attention to situations in which your friend exhibits the negative behavior.
For example, do not say in an ambiguous way, “I’m not sure that I want to go to the farmer’s market.” Instead say, “I already said I didn’t want to go to the farmer’s market. I feel like my opinion is not valued when I am left out of the decision-making process. Let’s try to make a decision about our plans today together.”
Use “I” statements as in the above example, and avoid accusatory “you” statements in the form of “You never listen to me” or “You always ignore my feelings.”, Be honest about how you feel and let your friend know in unambiguous terms what you want.


Do not just ignore your friend and hope that he or she will figure out that you’ve decided to end the friendship. If you do that, your friend might be confused or worried about you. They might involve third parties like a mutual friend or your parents. They might also try to confront you directly at your home or place of work to figure out what you’re feeling or thinking.
 They may or may not pertain to you. For instance, perhaps your friend’s marriage is not going well and they feel that they cannot share it with anyone. Letting your friend know that you are able and willing to listen and empathize can improve the friendship and put your friendship back on the right track.


Sometimes our friends have a hard time just coming out and telling us what they want. Therefore, asking your friend directly if they need anything is an important step in showing you’re committed as a friend and want to build a strong friendship.
For instance, if you think something is amiss with your friend, ask him or her general questions like, “Is everything alright?” If you suspect a specific problem, you might ask, for instance, “How are things with your spouse these days?” A close friend will open up to you and confess they have a problem or are feeling badly.
Some friends have a difficult time talking about their feelings or personal problems, though, and in these cases all you can do is respect their privacy.
Being there for your friends in times of need is what friendship is all about.Remind your friend, “If you ever want to talk about anything, I’m here for you.”

