 A Wren Guard is an L-shaped piece of wood that extends over the hole of a nestbox and obscures it from view. You can easily make a Wren Guard at home or purchase on from a retailer. It is believed to be effective because it makes it difficult for house wren to enter the box. The birds tend to perch on the roof before entering the nestbox, but this is difficult to do with the guard in place. The guard should be made of the same material as the nestbox so that it blends in, but you can also make one of cardboard and plastic in a pinch.
Typically you have to make your own guard since the dimensions will be slightly different for each bird you are looking to protect. The space between the nestbox hole and the guard will vary depending on the bird nesting inside. However, there are some retail models available.
 Using a Wren Guard requires quite a bit of observation on your part. You need to pay attention to when birds begin nesting in the box so that you know when to attach the guard. The song of a house wren indicates that they have moved into the area and that you need to be vigilant. Male house wren sometimes do not sing when entering a new area and remain unnoticed until they begin destroying nests.
Use a birdcam to keep a closer eye on your nestboxes.
 If you put the guard up too early, it is likely that the nesting birds will not return. If it is installed too late, a house wren may destroy the nest before you have a chance to stop it. The nesting birds need enough time to realize that they are in a safe space. Once they have laid a few eggs, they are invested in the space and much more likely to return. Check the nest daily or install a birdcam to monitor it.
 The guard will make it difficult for the adult birds to feed the nestlings and may interfere with their eventual fledging. It may become more of a threat to the hatchlings than a house wren. At this point the baby birds will be too big for the house wren to throw from the nest or cover with twigs.Chickadees and titmice nestlings need about two weeks before the guard can be removed.
For bluebirds, the guard can be removed 4-7 days after hatching.

