 If you have a backyard, you may be able to get some long sticks from there. You’ll need between 5-7 fairly straight, sturdy sticks that are at least 5 feet long. If you don’t have a backyard to gather sticks from, you can ask your parents if they will purchase some long dowel rods (or even curtain rods or broomsticks) from the hardware store for you.
 You’ll need twine, rope, or thick rubber bands to tie the poles together. You’ll also need several sheets or blankets to form the walls of your teepee and some clothespins or binder clips.
 Lay two sticks on the ground to form an inverted “V” shape. Lay another stick in the middle of the “V” so that it looks almost like an upside-down “W”.
 The most secure way to do this is to use a clove hitch knot around the tops of the sticks. If you don’t know how to tie one, make sure to wrap the rope twine under the poles as well as around them. Leave a “tail” of rope.


If you’re using rubber bands, use several around the tops of the sticks to secure them.
 It’s much harder to raise the teepee on your own, so ask a friend or your parents for help. It should look like a camera tripod once it’s raised. Arrange the legs so that it’s fairly stable.


After the tripod is raised, place the other sticks around the center tripod. Use the rope tail to tie them to the frame, or secure them with rubber bands.
 Use clothespins or binder clips to secure the sheets to the sticks or poles. You can also use string or twine to tie the sheets to the frame.


If you get permission from your parents to do so, punching holes in the sheets with a hole-punch makes it much easier to tie the sheets to the teepee frame. Only use old, worn-out sheets for this, and definitely ask your parents first.
 This will make a comfortable base for you to hang out in.
 You’ll probably want some snacks and drinks to enjoy in your fort. Books, games, and maybe a laptop will give you fun things to do.


If you want to decorate the inside of your teepee, you can string twinkle lights around the sticks and plug them in.

