 Grow Cube is a free Flash game that you can play in virtually any browser. It is available at a variety of different locations online. AS you place items, they interact with other items, leveling them up. In order to beat the game, you need to add items in a specific order.


After you click an item, you will need to wait a few moments for the animations to finish before you can click the next item.;
, This will drop a single Person on the top of your Grow Cube. Nothing much will happen yet

, Water will appear on the left side of the Grow Cube, a few layers down. Your Person will dig down to reach it, and then a geyser will shoot up.
 This button looks like three different plants, and is located in the bottom-left corner. Plants will appear across the top of the cube, and another Person will appear. Your two People will begin digging a river, and once it is complete the top of your Grow Cube will turn green.
 This button is located in the upper-right corner. Your Plants will grow a little, and another Person will appear. Your People will begin digging out the corner of the Cube closest to you.
 A clear Pipe will appear on the top of the trees on the left side of the cube. All of your Plants will grow a little, and another Person will be created. Your People will dig a bit more and discover a cave.
 Your Pipe will extend and your Pot will get bigger. Your People will dig a little more, and one of them will light a fire under the Pot.
 Your Pipe will expand some more, Plants will be added to the Pot, and the vines will fall over. One of your People will take a torch into the dark cave, illuminating it.
 A Bone will appear at the bottom of the Cube, and the Dish will grow into a large tower. One of your People will expand the river so that it flows into the irrigation canals that have been dug in the lower parts of the Cube.
 Three Springs will appear on the right side of the Grow Cube, and the Bone will turn into a Skull. The Pipe will extend to the front of the Cube, and one of your People will drop a fruit into the Pot, creating a golden ball. The Tower will grow bunches of leaves.
 A Ball appears in the Pipe, which extends to connect to the Tower. One of your People will turn the water golden with the ball. The Skull will turn into the body of a Creature living at the bottom of the Grow Cube. One of your People will kick the Ball through the Pipe, which will eventually land on the Creature's head, displaying a "Congratulations" message. You've beaten Grow Cube!