 Your own space is your sanctuary. If you live on your own or with other Pagans then you can do up your house with all the trappings and spirit of the holiday. Decorate and fill your living area with all the trimmings that mean something special to you and make you proud and happy to be Pagan at this time of the year. If you live with non-pagans, decorate your own room, or your part of the room festively. It is your space, and any time you feel downtrodden or upset, retreat to your space and surround yourself with happy feelings. Use the area to remind yourself that your religion is just as valid and special as others and carry that joy around with you. It's easier to deal with Nativities or Menorahs at the grocery if you know you have your Yule tree waiting to greet you at home.;
, You have as equal a right to celebrate the holidays of your religion as anyone else does to celebrate theirs. If others are curious, or attacking the Sabbat at hand, explain that this is your religion, and it is as valid as theirs .
 If you are going to an event with another holiday as it's central theme, celebrate as cheerfully as you would at your own religion's party. Remember, "When in Rome..." You don't have to be Christian to sing Jingle Bells with your in-laws, or let your kids hunt Easter eggs at a friend's house. Going with the flow makes things easier when not on the home front. In turn you can invite people to your home and show them a good time, Pagan holiday style- while possibly fostering acceptance and respect for your beliefs.
 For instance, on Ostara/Spring or Vernal Equinox the visual symbols are quite similar to those of the more openly celebrated Easter. Luckily, the ancient symbols of fertility and creation translated into this modern holiday. Only you need to know that in your home the bunny has a deeper meaning than candy egg delivery man. At Yule you can send holiday greeting cards with Deer or tree themes as those relate close enough to both the Deer God/Yule tree and Reindeer/Christmas tree. If those you are sending cards to are Jewish, simple but elegant cards with white, silver and blue colors can symbolize the Winter Solstice for you and Hanukkah for them. Samhain is easiest as it has survived most traditionally intact. Although it can require a good sense of humor to not scream and rant about all the horrible images of warty green women.
 Religion is deeply personal, so it should make things easier to keep meaningful parts at home than trying to set up a full scale Mabon altar in your cubicle at work. Wearing certain corresponding colors, or jewelry on the Sabbat can make you feel more fulfilled and less like you have something to "hide". You can be proud without shoving it down others' throats, or welcoming undue ridicule or questioning in an inappropriate setting. Remember that you are not trying to convert anyone, just celebrate your holiday.

