 Start the unclogging process by washing your face. Use this gentle face-washing method to get your face completely clean without irritating your skin, which can cause your pores to appear bigger:


Use makeup remover solution or pads to wipe away your makeup in gentle strokes. Remove all traces of eye makeup, concealer, and any other products you use.
Splash your face with lukewarm water. Using hot water can inflame your face and dry it out, so stick with lukewarm or cool water for now. Splash your face with water several times to remove residue from your makeup remover.
Use a gentle cleanser if you wish. If your skin is on the dry side, you don't need to use a cleanser. If you want to use one, make sure it's non-abrasive and doesn't contain chemicals that will dry out your face.
Pat your face dry with a soft towel. Don't rub it or scrub it. The skin on your face is thinner and more fragile than the skin on the rest of your body, so it's important to treat it gently.;
, Turn the heat to medium high, cover the pot, and allow it to heat. When the water is hot enough to start producing steam, remove the pot from heat.


You can pour the water into a large bowl or leave it in the pot for your steam treatment.
You can add green tea, peppermint tea, chamomile tea, or another herb or extract to the water to help nourish your face. Add tea tree oil to the water to help treat acne.
 Tent the towel over your shoulders and the pot so that the steam is directed to your face. Let the steam soak into your face and pores for ten minutes.


It's very important to do these steps in order. You must wash your face thoroughly before you attempt to steam your pores. Steaming in and of itself will help loosen built up dirt but you still need to clean that dirt from your face. It is important to note that the idea that steam opens your pores is a myth.
It's also important to avoid over steaming, which can lead to your skin drying out regularly and then over-oiling to make up for the dryness. Only steam your face once a week or so, after a proper cleansing, for a period of 5-10 minutes., Wash away the particles that emerged from your pores with cool water, which will help your face tighten back up. Apply moisturizer to protect your face from drying out.

