 Figure out how much you can afford to spend on the stocking fillers and the stocking itself. Since stockings are filled with small, inexpensive items this doesn't have to be much. More expensive gifts, even if they come in small packages like video games, should be under the tree not in the stocking.;
, You can't fill a stocking without a stocking. Red with white trim is traditional but you can also reflect the child's interests with it as well, such as a stocking that looks like a dress up boot or one that is Spiderman themed.
 If you know a little girl who just loves dress up, you could theme a stocking around that with a stocking that looks like a shoe or is made out of very "elegant" feeling fabric (such as plush or velvet) and filled with play makeup, costume jewelry, little accessories like scarves, and some princess themed candy. Using a theme can help you to sort out what you want to do, but it isn't necessary.
 If you buy only small items you can buy a ton of them but not fill much space. If you buy only large items, you can only fit one or two. It's best to have a mix of one large item, two or three medium items, and as many small items as you see fit. There are ideas for stocking stuffers in the Tips below.
 Before you buy or make anything ask yourself if the child would like and use it. Be honest with yourself. Even if you think Jenny would be adorable in the pink scarf, if she hates pink don't buy it! If you're filling multiple stockings, break it down. If you're going to the toy store, go through once thinking just about one child, getting items just for their stocking, then go through another time thinking just about another child. It may be more time consuming but it allows you to focus on just one child.
 If you choose to do this it's more fun if you only wrap some of the presents and leave a few without wrapping paper.
 Once you have everything you're going to put in, it's time to fill the stocking. Spread all the items out on a table or the floor so you can easily see everything. If you are including an apple or orange put that in first. If not, pick something small-ish and round, square, or squishy to put into the toe. This could be balled up socks, scarves, doll clothes, or a stuffed animal. Adjust it in the toe of the stocking until it looks good to you. Add another item of the same shape to fill in the heel area, then add a sprinkling of small chocolates or other small toys. Put larger or rectangular items, such as books or craft supplies, in next, coming up the leg of the stocking. Add the smaller items in around the larger. Try to leave something sticking out of the top, such as a stuffed animal with its arms over edge or a candy cane.
 If you have filled the stocking because Santa was too busy this year, hang it on the mantel or lay it out in front of the fireplace or tree. Some people hang stockings from the child's bedpost or put it across the foot of the bed. Whatever works best for you and your family is okay! If you've filled the stocking as a gift for a friend you don't need to wrap it, the stocking itself serves as wrapping and all you have to do now is give it to them.

