 An inexperienced rider and a sensitive horse are not likely to get along. Sensitive horses respond to subtle cues and can become agitated if they receive confusing commands or rough handling. If necessary, take lessons with a relaxed animal to improve your riding ability.;
, Lead the horse from the ground to build trust and identify her personality quirks. Pay attention to nervous behavior such as flinching, jerking away, rapidly pulling her head back, and quick changes of direction. Try to identify the stimuli that trigger these behaviors so you can avoid them in future. The horse's eyes or ears often point to the source of anxiety, usually a nearby object, person or animal, or your own sudden movements.


Flared nostrils can be a sign of nerves. Look for nearby triggers, especially sources of strong smells. Note that it is normal for nostrils to flare during hard exercise.
Rolling eyes or visible whites are often a sign of severe anger or fear. Immediately move out of kicking or biting range, speak in soothing tones, and lead the horse to a quiet location., Choose mild, well-fitting tack and place it carefully onto the horse. Follow these steps to ensure the horse's comfort:


Make sure the pad of the saddle and the horse's back are clean.
Slide the saddle pad into place, smoothing down the hair beneath it.
Lift the saddle and place it gently onto the horse. Don't let it flop hard onto the horse.
If the horse reacts when you tighten the girth, do it one notch at a time, grooming or petting the horse in between.
Make sure the girth is not too tight. You should be able to lift and pull each foreleg forward without pinching the horse's skin.
Use a gentle bit, such as an eggbutt snaffle, or any snaffle made from plastic or rubber.
Do not use a crop or spurs on a sensitive horse.
 If the horse tends to resist mounting or buck when you first get on, he may need time to adjust after tacking up. Cinch the saddle loosely and lunge the horse for a few minutes before riding. This should help the horse relax and get the saddle to settle into a more comfortable position.

You may skip this step if the horse already seems relaxed and cooperative.
 Move in slow, deliberate movements to avoid spooking the horse. Seat yourself with the correct posture, using very light leg pressure and staying in contact with the saddle at all times. Carry some of your weight on the stirrups to avoid bearing down too hard on the horse's back.
 Your seat, hands, and voice communicate your instructions and your attitude. Instruct the horse with light, steady movements, using slight leg and rein pressure. Keep your voice and movements calm and in control, never revealing hesitation, nervous movements, or uncertainty. Give commands confidently but without shouting or angry tones. When the horse obeys, praise her in a happy, affectionate tone of voice.


If the horse stops every time you use the reins, you're pulling too hard.
If you feel anxious, hum or sing quietly to mask your fears.
 A relaxed horse keeps his head down, back rounded up beneath you, ears up or slightly back, and tail still. A nervous horse will raise his head, tense his neck, hollow out his back, or lash his tail. React to these signs of anxiety with soothing praise, and by identifying the object or situation causing them. Let the horse take his time to adjust to new situations or investigate an unfamiliar object.

If the horse acts very nervous and may be in danger of spooking, try to get away from the source of anxiety. Plan on desensitizing the horse to that trigger back at the stables, at a later date.

