 Imagine you are a cat. Choose your colour, markings, personality and eye colour? Create a warrior name for your cat. Keep the name neutral however - don't use words that cat's don't know, like "plastic". Something that is related to where they live would be good (such as Pinefur). Or you can use a name based on an animal, (Crowcall) their appearance, (Palepelt) or their personality (Flameheart).;
, Name it something natural - names like MetalClan are not natural. Try something like TreeClan or BreezeClan, or you can use one of the original clan names: ThunderClan, RiverClan, ShadowClan, WindClan, or SkyClan. Make sure the clan name makes sense too, and that it matches the warriors in the clan personality.
 Make sure you name your clan so that the other clans know which clan you are. Just put a name then the suffix -clan (Example: FireClan). Also make sure that when you name your clan you name it based off of your territory or clan specialty.
 Find a few apprentices, warriors, kits, a medicine cat, deputy, and leader if you aren't. You can talk about your new clan when your friends are around. They may want to join your clan if it seems fun enough. Have some friends be apprentices, some warriors, one the deputy, and one the medicine cat. Elders and queens aren't really necessary since they don't do much in a clan often.


If they don't know about warriors that much, make them apprentices. If you have too many apprentices, make young ones kits, and the ones who know more about the warrior cat series Warriors, deputy, or medicine cat.
 If you don't have enough players, substitute with plush cats. They'll work, as long as you have 2-3 warriors and apprentices, a deputy, medicine cat. Make sure to have a fresh-kill pile for them! Use other items for pretend fresh kill.
 The kitchen can have the fresh kill pile, the bathroom can be the dirtplace, etc.
 Your house is the territory. Make a pile of things and cover it with a large blanket. Try using blue construction paper and put it near your door to make it look like water. A nice cardboard tree will help, too. You can use stickers on your walls to make your room seem more natural.
 The Highrock is where the leader stands, and in the inside is the leader's den. Make it out of soft, comfortable things such as pillows. Stack a few pillows then put a blanket straight and put something strong then a pillow or two then another blanket on top of the pillows.
 Make sure to hide it so if your camp gets attacked the kits and queens are safe and, make it out of strong pillows so if anyone aged six and under is inside if it falls, it won't fall and hurt them.
 Make it with strong pillows, and make your own herbs with food you can eat.
 Make it out of strong pillows, and put folded blankets as the nests.
 Use strong pillows and put folded blankets as the nests.
 Make a map so you know exactly were everything is and so you don't accidentally trespass another unknown clan territory!

