 In order for you to obtain the Little Xia chain quest, you have to reach level 15 to unlock the said quest through your Quest Log. Search for the quest in your Quest Log, right-click on the name, and then choose “Accept Quest” found at the bottom right of the Quest Log window.


To open the Quest Log, right-click the button with exclamation point (!) as its icon. A window will appear showing the list of on-going and available quests you can do.
Alternatively, you can open the Quest Log by pressing “Q” on your keyboard.
It is recommended that you open the Quest Log while you're in a city or town to avoid being attacked by monsters.;
, After accepting the quest for Little Xia, you will be given a set of tasks to complete, and the first one is for you to enter and clear the Suburbs of Wally's Castle while under Hard mode or higher. Simply run a dungeon raid like normal, finish the game successfully, and obtain an overall score of B or higher.


You can do this dungeon run while you're in a party to complete the raid quickly.
To get in a dungeon, simply press the Dungeon tab found at your screen. This will open a window showing you the available dungeons for your level. Click on the dungeon you want to enter, and then press “Start Dungeon,” or hit F8 on your keyboard. You will be automatically assigned to a party, but if you're already in an organized party, choose “Start with current members” instead.
To change dungeon modes, after opening the Dungeon Selection window, choose a dungeon you want to enter. Look at the menu to the right where you can see the description of the dungeon as well as the dungeon difficulty. You get to choose from Normal, Hard, and Very Hard.
Keep in mind that the higher the difficulty you choose, the more stamina is consumed per run, and this also requires a full party to clear the dungeon, depending on the dungeon level.
 Enter the Underground Waterway dungeon, which is just one level lower of the Suburbs of Wally's Castle. Kill Nasod Banthus to obtain the Steel Pieces.


This can be done in any difficulty, but Very Hard is highly recommended as there will be mini bosses in some of the floors. There are chances that these mini bosses will drop rare weapons and equipment that you can either sell for gold or use to become stronger.
 In the Dungeon Selection window again, click Banthus Cave, which is just a one level lower to Underground Waterway. This part of the quest is simple as you're only required to complete this dungeon raid twice under Hard or Very Hard mode.


There's no rank required for this quest, and no time limit.
It's best to do this quest while in the party to finish the raid quickly.
 With all the other quests completed, you may now proceed to entering the final dungeon in Elder Village, Wally's Castle. Unlike the previous quest, in this dungeon you're required to complete and obtain B rank or higher in order to compete this.


While under Very Hard mode, enter the dungeon with a party. Don't forget to bring Potions to avoid dying in battle.
If you're unable to complete the raid or if you obtained a low overall rank, you may enter the dungeon again for another run.
If you have successfully completed the quest, open your Quest Log and then click on “Little Xia” to see the progress of your quest.
 Click “Complete” to finish or simply approach the bulletin board found in the Elder Village.


You will be rewarded for your hard work, and of course, when given the option to choose your first class advancement, choose Little Hsien.
 Your first task is to talk to Echo in Elder Village, a young girl alchemist with white hair. After talking to Echo, she will give you three tasks to complete, and part of this will unfold Ara's story.


To become Little Hsien, make sure you have completed the Little Xia quest in order for the Little Hsien quest to appear in your Quest Log.
You can find Echo at the upper floor to the east side of the village, just a few steps away from Hoffman, the Blacksmith.
 The first quest given to you is to enter the Underground Waterway under Very Hard mode, and then complete the dungeon run within 8 minutes.


There's no rank requirement, so if you want to finish the dungeon run within 8 minutes, skip the other floors and go straight to the final room where you can find the boss.
Being in a full party will help in getting rid monsters and crowds, and most importantly, killing the boss.
If you're unable to complete the dungeon within 8 minutes, you can do reruns.
 Your next quest is to do a dungeon run twice in Wally's Castle while under the Very Hard difficulty. Being in a party is accepted and there's no time limit or rank requirement at this point.


It's advisable to explore and complete the dungeon by entering every floors since there will be chances that you will encounter mini bosses. These mini boss may drop rares such as accessory, weapons, and armors.
 Enter and complete the Shadow Forest dungeon while under Very Hard mode, and you must avoid receiving damage from any monsters in the dungeon. If you got hit more than 20 times, you will have to do another dungeon run.


To make it simple, enter the Shadow Forest while in a party and let your party members kill the monsters for you.
Using your skills will help to take down enemies quickly before they can land an attack on you.
There's no time limit for this part and no overall rank required.
 After you have completed all the quests, return to Elder Village and talk to Echo. She will then turn your class to Little Hsien with a few rewards for your hard work.
 As mentioned, Ara possesses high speed and unique attacks. One of her newest combo after advancing to Little Hsien is her Double Slash, where your character jumps into midair then swings her spear 180 degrees.


To do this, simply press Up to jump, then Z twice to slash (Up, Z, Z).
 Ara can dive toward her enemy from midair, causing devastating physical damage to both monsters or players in PvP, knocking down opponents once hit.


To execute this combo, press Z twice and then X twice (Z, Z, X, X).
 This is the most-used combo in PvP (Player vs Player) and effective in stunning enemies for more juggling combos. As the name states, Ara will stab her opponent using her spear, but her attack won't knock back her opponent, which will give her a chance to do connecting combos.


Press arrow twice to run toward your enemy and then Z twice to execute. Keep in mind that this skill can be countered if your opponent lands a hit first (Right, Right or Left Left, Z, Z).

