 A pony tail is a simple, classic hairstyle that works on nearly all hair types, curly hair included. There are a few unique considerations when it comes to pulling curly hair up into a class ponytail.Consider going for a hair bungee over a conventional elastic bands. Curly hair can be thick, and may be too thick for the usual rubber bands. You can pick up hair bungees at most beauty stores and salons. They're elastic bands with two clips on the end. You would pull the band around your hair until it forms a ponytail, and then clip the bands together.
To do a classic ponytail, gather your hair in back. You can gather all your hair, or just clip back part of it. A pony tail can fall high or low, depending on your preference. Once your hair is gathered, place the bungee in place or wrap an elastic band around your hair.
If your hair feels too tight, try gently loosening the bungee or band. If you can't loosen it adequately, take your hair out of the ponytail and try again. A pony tail should take less than 5 minutes.;
, A high bun is a quick, classic style that can be particularly flattering for curly hair. As with the classic ponytail, there are some special considerations to take when putting your hair in a high bun.To start, use your fingers to gather your hair in a high ponytail. Aim to have your bun resting towards the top of the back of your head. Then, use an elastic band or hair bungee to secure your hair.
From here, you can pad your hair gently with your hands or a soft-bristled brush, creating a bun shape. You can use a large scrunchie or a hair donut, which is a large and thick elastic band, to secure the bun shape you've created. Simply tuck the ends of your hair under the scrunchie or donut.
If your hair still feels a bit loose, you can place some bobby pins around the base of your bun to secure it. You can also spritz your hair with a light bit of hairspray to keep the style in place.
 If you have curly hair, you can try a simple braid. If your hair is thin enough, simply separate it into three sections and braid it to the side or running down your back. If your hair is particularly thick, however, braiding the whole thing may be difficult. In this case, there are other options.You can try braiding one or two small strands of hair. Then, you can wrap these strands around your existing hair and secure with bobby pins, creating a ponytail with your braid.
Some women like to separate their hair into three section. Then, they braid each of these sections. When complete, they braid the braided parts together. This creates a fun, somewhat eccentric style. The only downside is, if you're not used to braiding, it may take slightly longer than 20 minutes.

