 Before you begin removing surface water spots, you need to make sure your vehicle is clean and free of dirt and debris. The solutions for water stain removal will not work if the vehicle is dirty or damp.


Different brands may require further instructions for washing or waxing, so make sure you check your solution’s bottle to be sure.
 It is highly unlikely that your entire vehicle will need to be gone over for water staining, so identify the areas that need the greatest amount of help and start there. You can go back over any smaller problem areas after you’ve finished.Treating your entire car for spots is not usually necessary. Completing the most difficult areas first allows you to expend the bulk of your energy on difficult spots.
 A clay bar is a putty made of clay that is gentle enough to work on paint without stripping it, but strong enough to encourage calcification to adhere to the clay. This method carefully and gently pulls mineral deposits away from the paint without harming it.Clay bars are available at some hardware stores and most auto specialty stores.
There are many different brands of clay bars. Some come in a pre-made bar, while others have to be mixed with water. Check your bar’s package instructions.
 For the clay to work, it has to be able to grip the mineral deposits on the surface of your paint. Run it over the areas of your car with water staining to lift the stains.

If the water spots are tough, you may have to use more of a dabbing motion.
 Once you’ve gone over your paint, run your hand over the area to make sure there aren’t any watermarks remaining on the surface of the paint. Make a note of any problematic areas., If you encounter some rough spots or bumps, use your clay on the areas again, continuing to use gentle movements. If pieces were not picked up initially, dab and pull the bar away to encourage the stains to lift., Because the clay you are using can strip wax and some of the top layers of finish away, you will need to finish up your cleaning session with a wax to protect your paint.