 Most people who have diabetes can drink small amounts of alcohol. However, you want to make sure to drink in moderation. Too much alcohol can negatively affect your blood sugar.Due to the risks of drinking with diabetes, it is best to err on the side of caution regarding the number of drinks you consume. Women should stick one alcoholic drink per day. Men should only have two drinks in a day., When you have diabetes and decide to have a drink, make sure to limit the serving size. Many cocktails, beers, or wines you can get at a restaurant or bar are too large. Try thinking about the following serving sizes:12 ounces of beer
5 ounces of wine
1.5 ounces of liquor
1.5 ounce of liqueur

, You should never drink on an empty stomach. You should also not substitute your carbs or sugars from a meal as alcohol. Eating regular meals helps your body process the alcohol and alcohol sugars.You should also check your blood sugar to make sure your blood sugar is stable.
 It is important that you always wear a medical ID bracelet that indicates that you have diabetes. This is especially important if you take insulin or diabetes medications. This will help protect you if your blood sugar drops.Being buzzed and having low blood sugar looks similar. To avoid a diabetic emergency, make sure those around you are aware of your condition.
 Pay extra close attention to your blood sugar levels over the 24 hours after drinking alcohol. Also, watch for the signs of hypoglycemia while you are drinking, and keep in mind that the effects of alcohol may make it difficult for you to notice the symptoms.Be sure that the people who are with you know you have diabetes and understand that if you pass out it is a medical emergency, not a sign of intoxication., There are some other simple things that you can do to protect yourself while you are drinking. These include:Keeping a carbohydrate source with you at all times, such as glucose tablets.
Never drinking on an empty stomach.
Never replacing food with alcohol or counting alcohol as a carb.
Always drinking water with alcohol to stay hydrated.

