 Don't let the script "speak for itself;" The best movies are thematically related on all levels: writing, storyboarding, sound effects, acting, etc. It is your job to take a good script and turn it into great visuals. Each scene, ask yourself what the goal of the scene is, what's the mood or tone, and what the most important props, characters, or moments are. How can you draw attention to these things?


Find the most crucial element of the scene, and find a way to draw the audience's attention to it in each shot, making it bigger, centering it, zooming into it, etc.
Gene Wilder wasn't a storyboarder, but he thought like a visual comedian. In Willy Wonka, the famous intro where he "accidentally" trips, falls, and rolls to raucous applause was drawn up by him as a way to portray Wonka as fun, strange, and hiding behind a comic facade., What you don't want is a completely flat floor, where the camera is at a right angle to the ground. Tilting the shot slightly gives your storyboard three dimensions, even if it's only a slight shift. Straight on shots are almost never as exciting as dynamic, 3D compositions.


Use the foreground and background to your advantage as well -- don't put every character or thing on the same depth line.
Don't forget about the far, far background either -- it is a good place to create depth.
Of course, there are plenty of reasons to break this rule, such as creating a perfectly symmetrical shot. Just know why you're breaking the rule before you do it., Usually this is obvious -- if another character is speaking, you need to cut to show them. If someone hears a noise behind them, you cut to the location the noise came from. All good cuts must have have a reason to occur-- whether it is the plot, characters, shifting attention, or a purely artistic choice.


One of the most famous cuts ever is in 2001: A Space Odyssey, where director Stanley Kubrick cuts from a flying weapon to a satellite in space. In one cut, he bridges the gap between primitive man and future man while implying that little has changed but the setting.
 The angle of your shot tells the audience how to feel about the characters or scenes. You can use this fact in endless ways and should always ask yourself how your camera angle helps or hinders the point of the shot. For example:


Looking down on a character makes them seem weak, fearful, or powerless. Looking up makes someone seem powerful, confident, and dominant.
Extreme angles like very high, vert low, or titled shots show confusion, fear, or and off-the-wall experience like a drug trip.
 Sitting down and starting the scene, making difficult choices like camera angle and composition, is hard if you're not sure what direction you want to take things yet. A good intermediate step is to write out the scene like a short story. What parts pop out as important, what details stick out as you're writing, and what are the key actions in each shot? You can then edit this mini-script as a practice run before drawing.Stick to just 1-2 descriptions for each shot or scene. You're not writing a novel, you're writing a guide.
 Storyboards are, in essence, practice shots of a movie. As such, they goal is to use the boards to set up actual lights, cameras, and sets to mimic the shot your drew up. Diving deeply into shot types, color composition, camera angles, and more will greatly increase your toolkit as a storyboarder.


Drawing a storyboard is cheap, but shooting is not. If working on a larger film, you need to know the rough difficulty of shots to know if they're feasible. Way high-up shots may look amazing and fit the film, but helicopter filming is very expensive!

