 Proceed to the Prontera Castle (Prontera 156, 356), at the north part of Prontera City. Enter the two portals and then one west. You will meet Senior Crusader inside the third portal (prt_castle 45, 169). Talk to him to begin the quest.;
, To start your job change quest, you need to reach Job Level 40 or higher, and you must be a Swordsman. Otherwise, the quest won't trigger.


The gathering quest can be skipped if you bring a Chivalry Emblem and a Hand of God for the first time you talk with the Senior Crusader.
 The Chivalry Emblem is a tok`en that shows a knight's loyalty to his lord. This item can be obtained from Raydric and Khalitzburg in Glast Heim Chivalry, but the drop rate is quite low (0.1% chance for 1x servers.)

, The Hand of God is a figure of a hand that contains great religious symbolism. This item can be dropped from Osiris (with 10% drop rate), Dark Priest and Abysmal Dark Priest (both have 0.01% drop rate), and Deviruchi and Mini Demon in Geffenia (with 0.1% drop chance).
 The 1st set is 10 Lantern, 10 Horrendous Mouth, 10 Rotten Bandage, and 10 Jack O' Pumpkin.
 The 2nd set is 10 Decayed Nail, 10 Stinky Scale, 10 Worn-Out Prison Uniform, and 10 Daenggie.
 The 3rd set is 10 Skell-Bone, 10 Orc Claw, 10 Manacles, and 10 Short Daenggie.


Most of the items in the list can be found in Glast Heim.
Lantern can be easily found from Skeleton Worker in Mjolnir Dead Pit F2.
Deanggie and Nail can be easily obtained from Munak, Zombie, and Bongun in Payon Cave.
Orc Claw is from Orc Warrior in Orc Village or lower ground of Clock Tower.
 After you have gathered all the materials, head back to Senior Crusader to continue your quest. He will tell you to meet Murnak Mijoul in (prt_castle 164, 32). He's in the prison of the Prontera Castle.
 Then take the stairway heading to the basement on the east side.
 Rosary can be bought from the Prontera Church.


The quest will commence if you have the requirements (Rosary).
At this part of the quest, you will be tested by Murank, telling you to run a gauntlet of monsters—Mandragora, Flora, Greatest General, and Familiar—without attacking any of them. Having Endure skill is helpful in this part of the test.
 After you successfully finished the test, the Man in Anguish will mention about a Crusader in the Prontera Church. Head there for your knowledge test.
 Enter the church then head north; you will find the Crusader near the altar. Talk to her to take the knowledge test.


The crusader will challenge you with three sets of questions. You only need 8 of 10 points to pass this portion of the quest.
 Most of the questions here includes the number of heal, so double-check the right amount before pressing OK. Questions and answers for the first set are listed below.


What level of Divine Protection do you need to learn Demon Bane? (Level 3)
If your INT is 30 at level 55 (including the INT from equipment), how much HP does Lv. 5 Heal recover? (440)
When using Divine Protection Lv. 7, how much does your defense increase by against Undead? (21)
Which of the following spears can attack the Nightmare with ghost attributes? (Zephyrus)
What level of Heal do you need to learn Cure? (Level 2)
What is the attack speed with Cavalier Master Lv. 3? (80% of normal speed)
Which of the following is not a correction description of Demon Bane? (Only Acolytes can learn the skill)
How much SP does Heal Lv.7 use? (31)
What can you cure with Cure skill? (Curse)
What best describes a Crusader? (One who is preparing for the Holy War)

, This set of questions are more focused on monsters such as their size, HP, attribute and many other.


Which of the following monsters has different attribute? (Isis)
Which sword is effective in attacking demon monsters? (Decussate Tsurugi)
Which item does the Dokebi NOT drop? (Golden Hammer)
Which demon monster has the most HP? (Marionette)
Which demon monster is a different size? (Ghostring)
Which shield decreases attacks from demon monsters? (Shield from Hell)
Which attribute is the most effective of the Wind Ghost? (Earth)
Which monster is different from the other demon monsters? (Whisper)
What effect does the Marionette Card have? (Increase defense against ghost attacks by 30%)
Which of the following is an effective way to react when encountering a demon monster? (Put Holy Water on weapon and attack)

, This set of questions is the same as the 2nd. However, most monsters mentioned are undead.


Which attribute is the most effective in attacking the Undead? (Holy)
If the monster is a level 2 Undead, how much more damage does a Holy attack do compared to Fire? (50%)
What item can you not get from an Evil Druid? (Monk Hat)
Which Undead monster has the highest HP? (Zombie Prisoner)
Which of the following is a different size? (Drake)
Which card is immune to undead attacks? (Orc Zombie)
What was the relationship between Munak and Bongun before they passed away? (Childhood friends in the same village)
Which of the following monsters is not aggressive? (Skeleton)
What is the name of a Shield compounded with the Munak Card? (Amulet Shield)
Which of the following monsters does not drop Memento? (Munak)

, After you passed the knowledge test, the Crusader will tell you to return to the Crusader room inside Prontera Castle to speak with the Patron Knight. The Patron Knight will ask for a Holy Water, which can be obtained from Priest and Acolyte players through the Aqua Benedicta skill.


You can ask your friends who are Priest or Acolyte to make Aqua Benedicta for you.
You can also pay any Priest or Acolyte for Aqua Benedicta.
 Now that you have Aqua Benedicta, talk to Patron Knight to continue the quest. You must then fight through multiple waves of monsters in 4 minutes.


The first wave of monsters are 6 Zombies.
The second wave are 3 Soldier Skeletons.
The third wave are 1 Mummy and 1 Archer Skeleton.
The fourth wave is a Ghoul version of the player.
It appears that the player will pass the test no matter the outcome, even if the player dies during this test.
 After you have finished the monster test, return to Senior Crusader, and he will change your job to Crusader!


If you are a job level 50, you will receive 12 White Potion as reward. Otherwise, you will only receive 6 White Potion.

