 Some sports have an early fall season, such as women's soccer, and by the time a collegiate team is ready for try-outs and to start scouting a few players, your season may have ended. Game footage will play a large role in continuing your athletic career.;
, Like game footage, this will also be another factor that can help improve your chances of being looked at by a scout or being asked to come to open try-outs.
 Most schools will have some type of Athletic Questionnaire you can fill out to let them know you are interested in possibly playing there.
 A bad-timed injury at the end of your season could strongly affect your chances of being able to play in college. If a coach thinks you are injury prone, they may not be willing to take that risk with their scholarship money.
 Include as much as possible that might put you over the edge against another player being considered.
 It may be 3 months after your season has ended and you haven't touched a ball or ran a foot since your last game. Run a few extra miles and work on some touches or work on getting familiar with the skills again so you are not left looking like an amateur at the try out.
 In any sport, the game is more fast-paced, more skilled, and more competitive. It is completely different. Don't let that affect your game. You have made it to try-outs or farther, so the coaches obviously see something they can use. You deserve to be there based on your skills and ability of play.
 This is where you will sign your intent to play your college career with the school. This is usually a big day with lots of photographs so dress nice and bring your parents along.
 Don't let your grades or attendance slack off. Your athletic scholarship is pending on your grades and graduation of high school.
 All athletes that play any sport after high school must be cleared. They will give you the website address and possibly a code for your school. You will need to have good grades and attendance and a good standing to be cleared.
 Most importantly, keep in shape. You will work harder than you ever did in high school so you need to prepare your body for the physical intensity that will be new to you.

