 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out one 9 x 13 (23 x 33 cm) baking pan. Spray it with cooking spray and set it aside while you mix the cake batter.For a layer cake, just use two 8 or 9-inch (20 or 23 cm) round cake pans. Follow the cooking times on the side of the package.
 Open one 15.25-ounce (432 g) box of Devil's food cake mix and place it in a large mixing bowl. Add 3 large eggs, 1 cup (236 ml) of water, 1/3 cup (80 ml) of vegetable oil, and 1 1/4 teaspoons of pure peppermint extract. Beat the ingredients on low speed for 30 seconds using a stand or hand mixer., Turn the mixer speed up to medium and beat the cake batter for 2 minutes. The batter should become thick and bigger in volume. Pour the batter in your prepared sheet pan.Spread the batter across the top, so it's level in the pan.
 Put the cake pan in the preheated oven and bake it for 26 to 31 minutes. To test the cake, poke a toothpick or cake tester into the center of the cake. If the tester comes out clean, the cake is done. If batter sticks to the tester, bake it for a few more minutes and check it again.If you're using round cake pans, bake the cakes for 24 to 31 minutes, depending on their size.
 Wear oven mitts and take the cake out of the oven. Set the entire pan on a wire rack. Let it cool for 15 minutes while it's still in the pan. Then you can flip the cake out and onto the wire rack where it can cool completely.It's important to cool the cake completely, so the frosting won't melt off or into the cake.
 Scoop one 16-ounce (454 g) container of buttercream frosting into a mixing bowl and stir in 1/8 teaspoon of pure peppermint extract and 2 ounces (60 g) of mini-chocolate chips. If you want a green frosting, stir in a few drops of green food coloring. Keep stirring and adding drops until you get the shade of green you'd like.Taste the frosting and add more mint, if you'd like a stronger flavor.
 Once the cake is completely cool, spread the mint chip frosting over it. Use a rubber spatula to drop the frosting onto the cake and use an offset spatula to spread it evenly. Ensure that the sides of the cake are also frosted.Store any leftovers in an airtight container at room temperature.

