 Your doctor will know what to look for when evaluating tailbone pain. He may take x-rays or order CT scans or an MRI. The two most effective tests in diagnosing coccydynia are the injection of a local anesthetic into the tailbone area, to see if that temporarily relieves the pain, and comparing x-rays taken sitting and standing, to see if the coccyx is dislocating when you sit.


Your doctor could also look for pilonidal cysts, which are cysts that occur only in the tailbone region, and are caused by infection of ingrown hair follicles.Successful treatment of these kinds of cysts may help relieve pain or remove pain altogether.;
, You will need to visit your doctor for a diagnosis, but knowing the symptoms may help you determine if your tailbone is causing the problem. Identifying symptoms could also give your doctor valuable information. Symptoms of tailbone injury include:symptoms:


Pain in the tailbone or coccyx without pain in the lower back
Pain when rising from a seated position to a standing position
Frequent need to defecate or pain while defecating
Relief of pain when sitting on legs or only on one buttock

, If you injured your tailbone in some way, tell your doctor about it during your appointment. It may help your doctor to determine the correct treatment for your situation.


By some estimates, coccydynia is roughly five times more common in women than it is in men. This may be due to injuries to the tailbone that may occur during childbirth., Some medications may help to alleviate pain in your tailbone. For example, anti-epileptics and antidepressants have been found to be effective at alleviating tailbone pain.Ask your doctor about the possibility of taking one of these medications.


Keep in mind that narcotics are not typically given unless there is a fracture to the tailbone. If you have fractured your tailbone, your doctor may prescribe a prescription painkiller to help alleviate the pain. An x-ray would be required to determine if you have a fracture in your tailbone., Most patients who undergo surgery to relieve coccygeal pain have already tried nonoperative treatments with little effect. Exhaust the nonoperative options before you move on to painful, and sometimes debilitating, surgery.


If the pain is severe enough, occurs daily for 6 months or more, and/or it interferes with your quality of life, then request a referral to an orthopedist who specializes in removal of the coccyx.