 If your dog has short hair, give your dog a bath once every three months. If your dog has long hair, you may need to bath her more often. To wash your dog, wet all of your dog’s fur with a spray hose or a pitcher, but do not wet the areas around her eyes, ears, and nose. Then, massage some shampoo into your dog’s fur. After you have worked the shampoo into a lather, rinse out all of the shampoo. The water should run clear and without suds. Then, dry her off with a towel.Don’t use human shampoo on your dog because some ingredients in human products can be irritating to dogs. Use a special dog shampoo when you wash your dog.
Offer your dog plenty of praise and a treat after baths to help him develop positive feelings about bath time.
 If your dog has short hair, you may only need to brush him once a week. But if your dog has long hair, you will need to brush him every day in order to avoid tangled and matted fur. Use a wide comb to help remove tangles before moving on to a brush. Make sure that you offer your dog lots of praise while you brush him and give him a treat when you are finished so that he will be willing to let you brush him on a regular basis., To clip your dog’s nails, you will need to get a special nail clipper for dogs. You can purchase dog nail clippers in a pet store. You may also need to get your dog used to you handling his nails before you try to clip them. If your dog is wary of you touching his feet and nails, help him get used to it by petting his feet and touching his toes. Give him praise and a treat when he lets you touch his toes. After he becomes more comfortable with you touching his feet, you can try to clip his nails.Make sure that you do not cut too far down or you may hit the quick of his nail. This area is very sensitive and may cause bleeding.
If you are concerned about hurting your dog while trimming his nails, ask your vet to show you how or have a professional groomer trim your dog’s nails for you

, Brushing your dog’s teeth can help to prevent problems with tooth decay and gum disease as your dog ages. If your dog has bad breath, it may indicate that there is excess bacteria is causing a problem. Take your dog to have his teeth cleaned by a veterinarian and then follow your veterinarian’s instructions for cleaning his teeth.


You can use a child’s toothbrush, a gauze pad, or even a bit of nylon stretched over your finger to clean your dog’s teeth. Make sure that you use a special dog toothpaste or mix some baking soda with a bit of water to form a paste., Grooming time is a good time to check your dog for fleas, ticks, and other potential health problems. Make sure that you inspect your dog’s skin for any unusual growths, wounds, or tender areas. You should also check your dong’s ears for excessive wax buildup and foul odors. If you find anything that seems abnormal, schedule an appointment with your veterinarian as soon as possible.