 Now days it’s not a big secret that Pensacola Bay is full of big red snapper and gag grouper. On top of that believe it or not you will often find larger fish in Pensacola Bay than you will find fishing shallow water near shore spots in the Gulf of Mexico.


It’s not a mystery why these fish have decided to call Pensacola Bay home; Pensacola Bay offers deeper water than you will find anywhere else. You will find depths that exceed sixty feet of water in Pensacola Pass and many areas with over fifty foot of water inside of Pensacola Bay.





;
, For many years this fishery was limited to anglers who were willing to go the extra mile to target these prized fish. There was no magical list of numbers floating around town or easily available online; also people who had these spots weren’t usually willing to share. You can keep a close eye on Pensacola fishing reports and know when the bite gets good.
 Don’t think for one second that because you’re fishing in the bay you should use light line or small rod and reel outfits. Your typical offshore bottom fishing outfit is what you want to use. You'll generally have very good luck using the high speed reels with jigging rods; your local tackle shop can definitely point you in the right direction for brands.
 Don’t consider using any type of line other than braid. Ordinarily fifty to eighty pound braid will get the job done, but every once in a while you may run across a grouper on a spot that will require you to use even heavier line.
 You want to use a combination of live and dead bait. A lot of different live baits will work, but you will likely find the best results using croakers and pigfish. Menhaden are usually the best dead bait to use and try doing different things with them like cutting the tail off or butter flying them.
 Currently red snapper season opens around the beginning of June each year and anglers are allowed to keep two snapper per person with a 16 inches (40.6 cm) minimum size limit. This year gag grouper season will open on the first of July and anglers may keep two fish per person over 22 inches (55.9 cm).

