 Many women feel like the abuse was their fault or that they deserve what they got. Nobody deserves to be physically, emotionally, or sexually hurt. It was not your choice to be hurt, but it was your abuser’s choice to hurt you.If you’re struggling with feelings of self-blame, you may be perpetuating the abuse onto yourself. Extend self-acceptance instead of self-blame.Accept yourself for who you are, and who you want to be. You may feel that you made a mistake staying with your abuser. Many victims stay with their abuser for a variety of reasons, but because you were being victimized, it was not your fault.;
, Your abuser may have made you feel small or not in control of your own sexuality. Moving on from an abusive relationship can be difficult, especially regarding sexual intimacy. You may feel unsafe or associate intimacy with fear. While you may want to jump right into another relationship for feelings of safety and security, take it slow. Give yourself time to heal and process your experience.Sexual activity should be fun and enjoyable, not scary or painful.


Consider joining a support group for women who struggle with sexual intimacy or who have endured domestic violence as a way to connect with other people who have similar experiences. This is a great place to ask for advice, hear other people’s experiences, and gain some perspective.
You may also consider seeing a therapist to work through painful triggers or emotions surrounding sexuality.
 If your abuser made a habit of tearing you down, telling you your flaws, or insulting you, you may have a negative perception of yourself and/or your body. These messages can affect your feelings of self-worth as well. Learn to improve your self-image by challenging your negative self-talk.Listen to your self-talk and ask yourself, “Is this true? Is this accurate? Who told me this? Should I believe it?”


Write down the thoughts that run through your mind. They might include, “I’m fat. I’m ugly. I’m stupid. Nobody will love me.” Then, come up with an alternate, more positive thought. For example, “My body is fine the way it is. I find my body attractive, especially my lips and hair. I am worthy of love.”

, Many women experience great fears once they decide to leave or have left their abuser. You may feel overwhelmed by fear which can take over your life. You may fear your abuser coming after you or hurting you. Work with the police to ensure your safety as much as possible. Have friends and family come to your aid to help protect you, house you, and meet your needs. Have someone to talk to, such as a close friend or a therapist. Create a safe environment for yourself. When you begin to feel fearful, get to a safe place as soon as you can.


If you begin to feel panicky, learn how to control your breathing. You might begin to feel overwhelming fear, choking, difficulty breathing, or chest pains. Use your breath to come back to the present moment, decrease your symptoms, and feel more calm.For more information, check out How to Cope With Panic Attacks.
 Many women who experience abuse and battering have resulting post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. Some common PTSD symptoms include re-experiencing the trauma, avoiding reminders of the abuse or the abuser, high emotional arousal, guilt, shame, blaming yourself, depression, and suicidal thoughts.If you think you may have PTSD, treat PTSD early. Work with a therapist to manage your PTSD symptoms.


You may need help managing your flashbacks or nightmares. For some women, they become so fearful of their abuser that they do not leave their homes or shelters. A therapist can help you manage your fears and help find ways to ensure your safety.
 Many women who experience battering may have a history of childhood trauma or previous trauma in their lives. Whether you’ve experienced previous trauma or not, it’s important to obtain therapy with a trauma focus. Battering can affect your mindset and make you feel helpless. The first stages of therapy may involve cognitive techniques, as many women may be so overwhelmed with fear that they cannot attend to the therapy or concentrate on what’s happening.Your therapist can help you to focus on stabilization, empowerment, and coping with symptoms of PTSD., You may suffer from PTSD or from panic symptoms related to your fears. Talk to a psychiatrist about managing these symptoms through medication. Your psychiatrist may put you on medications to manage panic attacks such as benzodiazepines or antidepressants.These medications can help you manage your panic symptoms and create feelings of calm.


Medication can be used temporarily to reduce your symptoms, although therapy is recommended as a better long-term option.
 Some women find it difficult to leave the abusive situation due to drug use or abuse.If you have a drug problem, seek help. There are inpatient and outpatient recovery programs available to you. The best treatment approach involves medication and behavior therapy.For more information, check out How to Find Substance Abuse Treatment.
 Taking steps to protect yourself can help you feel empowered.Obtain a restraining order or protective order. Go to the police, submit a police report, and ask what you can do further to protect yourself. You may want to work with a lawyer if you choose to pursue legal avenues.


Prioritize your safety first. If you fear that your abuser may come after you, file a restraining order and alert the police of the danger.
 If you still live with your abuser, have a safety plan. If you sense abuse about to come from your partner, have a safe place to go, such as a friend’s house or your parent’s house, or have a safe place in your own home.If you are ready to leave your abuser and end the relationship, have a safety plan for your escape. Be ready to escape quickly and in a moment’s notice. Keep your car fuel filled and your cell phone charged. Know who you can contact for a ride, a place to stay, or help with the police., Ending the relationship or filing for divorce can help you feel empowered and truly free from the abuse and the abuser.If you’re not sure about leaving, consider several factors. Recognize that while you may want your abuser to change, don’t count on it. While it’s not impossible, abusers tend to have deep emotional wounds themselves, and taking responsibility for their actions can be difficult. Even if your partner is in treatment, there’s no guarantee they will change.Prioritize your safety and well-being first. Don’t keep your fear of the unknown (what you will do, where you will go, what will happen to your children) keep you in a dangerous and unhealthy situation.
 Especially if you’re dealing with high levels of stress and hyper-vigilance, you may want to practice relieving stress in a safe and healthy way. Relaxation exercises can help you feel safe, stable and grounded. Additionally, relaxation for 30 minutes each day can help you manage depression and stabilize your moods.Do something that makes you feel calm and safe. Try yoga or meditation.
 For example, you may find a woman’s shelter or crisis care for your children. Help may be available for legal issues or medical issues.


Go to your local police station and ask for resources. In the US, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233 (SAFE). In the UK, call Women’s Aid at 0808 2000 247, and in Australia, call 1800RESPECT at 1800 737 732.
 Find a safe place you can go to escape the abuse. You can go to a women’s shelter for safety and resources.It can be helpful to know that you are not alone in your struggles and that there are people who can help you.


In the US, visit http://www.womenslaw.org to locate a shelter near you.
 The most dangerous time for a battered woman is when she is considering or discussing leaving the relationship. Even if you do not live with the batterer, you may not be safe.Consider living somewhere your abuser will not find you. Enlist the help of family and friends to help organize your safety. Change your phone number, use a safe computer, and change your internet passwords and/or usernames. Cancel your bank accounts or credit cards.Think about what your batterer can trace, and avoid these things. For example, they may trace your phone calls or track you with GPS on your car.
 Find activities that you can do with other people. This can help with feeling isolated and can help with the power and control the batterer has over you.Start going to group fitness classes or yoga classes. You can also attend interest groups such as gardening, painting, or dog play groups. Create friendships with others and find activities outside of the abusive relationship.


Consider volunteering, as it’s a great way to meet new people, feel good, and gain valuable skills.You can volunteer with people (such as with kids or the elderly) or with animals (like at a shelter or animal sanctuary). Find opportunities to volunteer and meet new people. For more information, check out How to Volunteer.

