 Pluck stray hairs to keep your eyebrows tidy and looking their best. You can also shape your brows to achieve a specific look.


Pluck stray eyebrow hairs whenever you notice them. You might see one or two stray hairs every day or only every few days.
Avoid over-plucking your eyebrows. You don’t want to end up plucking too many hairs so that you barely have any eyebrows left to work with.
After plucking and/or shaping your eyebrows, lightly brush them with an eyebrow brush. This will give them a neat and tidy look.
 Keep your lips moisturized daily for a soft and smooth appearance. Moisturize and prevent chapped lips by applying lip balm daily. You can apply the lip balm several times a day, as needed.
 Having a great haircut can really transform the way you look, as well as how you feel about yourself. Read Choose a Haircut That Flatters Your Facial Shape to learn about which hairstyles are most flattering.


Talk to a hair stylist about the right haircut for your face shape and hair texture.
Getting a haircut with layers is a great way to add volume and movement to your hair, which can make you feel more attractive., Washing your hair regularly keeps it clean and can help it look shiny and healthy. Some people choose to wash their hair daily, while others only do so a few days each week. Do what works best for your hair.


You can condition your hair every time you wash it or you can do a deep conditioning treatment once a week. Read Deep Condition Your Hair for more tips.
How to Look After Your Hair has a lot of helpful information on achieving and maintaining hair that is healthy, shiny, and undamaged.
 You don’t need to wear polish on your nails for them to look nice. Simply keep them trimmed and filed for a clean and attractive look.
 Whatever your personal style, choosing clothes that make you feel comfortable and confident is a great way to look more attractive. Read Choose Good Clothes for ideas on developing your own style and look.


Choose clothing that you feel comfortable wearing. You will carry yourself with more confidence when you feel comfortable in your clothes., While some people like wearing makeup to feel more dressed up, others use accessories to accomplish the same thing. Jewelry and hair accessories are easy ways to dress up an outfit.


Accessories are a great way to put your own personal touch on an outfit. Learn more about how to accessorize.
Accessories can include all types of jewelry, handbags, hair clips, headbands, scarves, and footwear.
 You can be confident by being comfortable with who you are and how you look. People tend to see confidence as attractive.Being confident is always attractive, with or without makeup.


Smiling is an easy way to display your confidence. Plus, people often rate others as more attractive when they are smiling.Maintaining good posture is a great way to carry yourself with confidence.
Having a positive outlook on life can help you feel more confident.