 Children need to feel our love at all times. Our love gives them confidence that they are heard, that they are present, and that they matter. A warm, loving, and gentle environment is absorbed unconsciously and it gives children a wonderful start to life.


Make sure that your child feels at 'home' within your home. If we are surrounded by chaos, our mind cannot stay peaceful. If we love ourselves, we will give our-selves the gift of beauty and harmony in everything that surrounds us.
Noise is an important inhibitor to a harmonious environment. Switch off the TV, radio, and control the music within your home.;
, Children should eat lots of fresh organic fruits and vegetables and avoid at all times sugary juices, salty snacks, and fast food, additives, colors, and sweets. The proper nutrition will strengthen your child's immune system, and act as a support to your child's brain development. Fruits and vegetables provide the body with #1 source of antioxidants, vitamins and minerals.
 Children learn intuitively, perceiving the subtle inner relationships observing nature. Free creative play is an invaluable gift that children need to start properly relating to the outside world. Allow your child plenty of 'free time' to exercise and explore the world.
 Do not change an activity after a few minutes to replace it with another stimulus. The longer we stay practicing, the better we become. We enjoy the art of doing it perfectly. To experience anything fully we need mindfulness and concentration.
 Invent stories for your child, and let your child invent stories for you. Set time for stories in your day to day life. The best is to cut TV and computer time and increase 'story telling' time.


Children love learning through rhymes, they love poetry, painting, story-telling, cooking, knitting, and their thinking capability beautifully develops supported by music, arts, and sports.
The development of thoughts should go hand in hand with the development of feelings and heart.
 Children first learn through experimenting, and the fascinating world around them, of flowers, animals, stones, has so much to offer, so there is no need to rush their thinking process / development. Once the thinking starts, it should be treated as the most fascinated activity completely supported with the world of images and emotions.
 There is something your child is trying to tell you no matter how old s/he is, so listen to him or her. Core beliefs identify who we are. We are constantly bombarded by the messages of what to believe in, how to think, or what to do. Children absorb these beliefs like sponges.


A child could start believing that s/he is stupid, boring, lazy, and these core beliefs will become entrenched in their subconscious. It is important that we challenge our beliefs and that we develop alternative, balanced beliefs.
Our core beliefs are at the root of our happiness and self-esteem.
 A child's imagination is a feeling force. Respect the world of images, avoid abstract and bloodless thoughts. Sarcasm can be most hurtful and destructive force. Also, do not let your child get lost in the world of TV, computers, or games, and let him/her explore nature instead.
 At the age of 7 to 14, our children are learning to have a beautiful capacity for feelings that will give them a rich soul experiences, and they are expressing a wonderful hunger for knowledge, for Philosophy (love of wisdom). It is love and wisdom that are the two greatest gifts of mankind.

