 If you don't know some one or more of these things, you may want to put this off for later.;
, It is best to write on a blank document, because you can easily add/edit things, but with pen and paper you can organize it easily. Write "Packing List" neatly on the front of it. If it is for your whole family, you may want to divide the page in equal sections for each family member.
 If you are making lists, label the top of where each list will be.
 If you are going to be gone for 1-7 nights, you may want to consider bringing 1 shirt, 1 pair of pants, 1 pair of underwear, 1 pair of socks, 1 pair of pajamas, and for women, 1 bra, for each night you are staying. If you are washing clothes, you can pack less. If your trip is longer, consider packing 1 outfit and 1 pair of pajamas for every 3-4 days, assuming you will be washing clothing. Remember bathing suits, cover ups, extra pairs of shoes, scarves, coats, gloves, and other items to keep you comfortable.
 If you are going to spend 1-7 nights somewhere, bring your own shampoo and body wash, unless it's only one night (sleepover), then consider skipping a shower. Remember to bring toilet paper if you are spending over a week somewhere. For every 2 days you will be gone, bring one roll of toilet paper, just in case where you are staying doesn't supply it. Don't forget razors, deodorant, hairbrushes, toothbrush, hair straightener/curling iron, and for women, tampons/pads.
 Books, magazines, MP3's, phones, and CD's all qualify as entertainment. For a quick 1 night stay, you might only want to bring a magazine instead of two or three books, because you won't get around to reading them overnight. Remember, if where you are staying doesn't have a DVD player, don't take DVD's!

, Pillows, blankets, and sleeping bags all should be put down. If you are spending 1-7 nights somewhere, don't plan on washing your sheets. Take what you need for your bed (if it is on a bed or on the floor) and maybe an extra sheet, just in case. If you are spending a long time somewhere, take two sets of sheets and rotate them every other week.
 You'll need something to wash your clothes with for long stays. Check with where you are staying to see if they have cleaners, and if so, what kinds.
 For most people, this should be your wallet or purse and a passport, if your leaving the country. If you are just spending the night, you may want to take no money because you probably will not have to buy anything.
 If you have any pills you have to take, write these down. Make sure to take bandages, vitamins, and pain relievers wherever you go, unless its just a sleepover. Remember things like First-Aid kits, motion sickness remedies, and sleep medications.
 MP3 and Cell Phone can go here or in the entertainment section. Remember a cell phone charger, camera, alarm clock (if you need to wake up at a certain time), laptop, and walkies-talkies if you need these items.
 Sunscreen is a must for almost anywhere you go. Tents, sleeping bags, flotation items, beach towels, buckets, shovels, and things of such are good for spending time at the beach or camping. Remember insect repellant and flashlights for camping.
 Wipes, diapers, baby powder, 'sippy cups', and strollers are good for young kids.
, Did you remember everything or did you put on some extra items? Cross off and add on what you really need. Remember that if you are traveling far, you can buy some things when you get to your location.
