 Don't transfer your personal opinions and beliefs onto same-sex couples. We all make choices for ourselves that others would disagree with. Just because you don't agree with something doesn't mean that it is wrong.


Everybody is different. As long is someone is content and satisfied with their choices, you shouldn't try to change them.
Remember that the choice to enter a same-sex marriage actually means that the people getting married are committing to creating a life together. This commitment will give them the added benefit of the economic and social support that comes along with marriage. In essence, they are making a good and sensible decision.;
, Well, not literally of course. The point is to try and think about the issue from another perspective. If you wanted to marry someone you loved and the state told you you couldn't, how would that feel? It would feel horrible.


This does not mean that you can ever really understand what it is like to be a lesbian or gay person if you are not. It simply means that you have to be willing to look at the issue from a perspective different than your own.
If two people love and care for each other enough to fight extreme social bias to express their love for each other, you should give them the credit of overcoming the obstacles that a good number of couples take for granted.
 While you may not necessarily agree with same-sex marriage, if the couple is happy in their relationship then you should not pass judgment. A happy gay marriage is much healthier than a bitter, miserable opposite sex marriage.


As long as people are happy together, it shouldn't matter to you what sex they are, or whether their beliefs clash with yours.
Same-sex relationships can be even more successful than straight relationships. Fore example, studies are beginning to show that same-sex relationships usually include clearer and more direct communication, leading to a better ability to work through conflict., Some people who oppose same-sex marriage argue that if people of the same sex are married they will want to raise children and that will hurt children. However, this argument is just not true. Scientific research has shown that the children of same-sex parents are on par with children raised in straight households.Research has shown that the things that impact children are their relationships with their parents, their parents competence, and the families economic stability. The sexual orientation of the parents does not impact the success of the child but the inability of parents to benefit from the financial benefits of marriage could negatively affect children. Thus, same-sex marriage could actually benefit the children of LGBT people.