 Between the price of tickets and the cost of snacks, seeing a movie in theaters can be pricey. Instead of spending a lot of money going out, have friends over for a movie night. Have people bring over DVDs or take advantage of your Netflix account.If you're into seeing movies as they come out, newer movies are often available to rent online. You can rent the newest releases using a service like Amazon, so you can see new movies shortly after they hit the theaters.
 Board games are a cheap way to entertain guests. If you're broke, but want to do some socializing over the weekend, bust out a deck of cards or some of your favorite board games. Have friends over for a game night.If you're low on money for snacks, make some baked good or other snack foods using the ingredients you currently have in your kitchen.
You can also encourage friends to bring over their own snacks and drinks for the night.
 Going out to eat is fun, but it gets pricey. If you and your friends want to get together for a meal, why not offer to host a potluck? Everyone can bring their own dish and you can all share. This will cut down on spending for everyone involved.Instead of going out and buying ingredients to make a dish, go through your fridge and pantry. Challenge yourself to make something without spending any money.
If you really want to make the night about saving money, you can make a rule that no one buys ingredients for their dish. This can be a fun challenge that will keep everyone's spending in check.
 If there's a show you watch regularly, you can have a standing invitation to have your friends over each night the show airs. You can also host a party where you marathon watch your favorite TV shows on Netflix. Staying in and unwinding in front of the television allows you to socialize without spending too much money.As with a movie night, invite everyone to bring their own drinks and snacks. Try to whip appetizers and sweets using only the ingredients you currently have in your kitchen.
 A swap meet can be a fun event where everyone saves money and reduces clutter in their home. Encourage everyone to go through their closets and find clothing and other items they no longer need. Then, you and your friends can all trade items. This can be a fun way to socialize, cut down on clutter, and gain new things you may need.Encourage people to bring drinks and appetizers to the event. This can make it more fun and prevent you from having to spend on refreshments.
 If all your friends are going out to an event, but you can't afford it, this can be disappointing. However, you don't have to feel left out just because you can't, say, afford a movie ticket or a ticket to a concert. Make your place the spot for the after party.For example, say all your friends are going to a concert. If the invitation is extended to you, say something like, "I can't really afford that right now, but thanks for the invite. I would love to see you guys, so if you want to come hang out at my place afterwards, that would be great."
Oftentimes, an event will get out early. Your friends will probably want to stay out and socialize, but bars and other places can get pricey. People will probably appreciate you giving them somewhere to go afterwards.

