 If you are about your business when suddenly, out of the blue, a word or phrase pops into your head--that's common whether it is an ordinary thought or not.



Don't panic if you don't understand it, whether in your own language, or less likely in any other known or even long forgotten tongue--it may be The Holy Spirit urging, nudging or shaking you. God sometimes works in mysterious ways to perform His wonders.;
, If you are a Christian, experiencing a Christian spiritual experience, then check the validity of any surprising idea. The effectual fervent prayer of a Christian has a real impact in your life and others that you pray for.



Ask that God do His will in your understanding and in your life, exactly what He pleases, about the word or phrase.(1 John 5:14-15)

Ask the Lord that if it's some spiritual matter meant for your good, that you would both understand it clearly, and be able to follow through on it.

Ask that if it's not from God, that it would be "bound" and go exactly where Jesus would have it sent.
If, after praying, and it feels right and good, remember the words, and look them up. Look in a multilingual dictionary. (Wikipedia is a good place to start). There are many good solid theological references that you can also look into. Take note of the definition as it applies to the event at that moment. Is it relevant? Does it offer insight? Is it a curse? Why is it, and what does it mean?

,, The all-knowing all-powerful God creator of the universe is incapable of being inconsistent. If the words you are experiencing are from God, then there are 4 tests they will pass. If they fail, then its not God. The tests are:


Question if it lines up with what The Bible really says on the subject? If you don't know your Bible, find out, read it, study it.
Ask another Christian. If it is really from God then those who know God will agree it is from Him. Ask someone who is wise, who has many miles on their moccasins, and would know something about this, how to tell if it's from God. God put your church leaders over you and they have a responsibility. If they are wrong, He holds them accountable, not you, for going to them.
Pay attention to your conscience. If your conscience doesn't feel right about it, then it's not right.
If you think God says something is going to happen and it doesn't, it wasn't God. That's the first test of a false prophet from the Old Testament.
 Do you believe it is from God? Follow it. To know a command from God, it will and must line up with: rightly divided scriptures; the church; your conscience; and circumstances. To not obey is dangerous. If you are His and love Him and obey Him, then you are going to behave reflecting God's love.
 Don't be one of those. Be one God's side for change and for understanding...

