 Instead of having to rent a room, hall, or outdoor space for your wedding, consider holding your wedding at a free location. If you have a beautiful backyard, consider having the wedding at your house. Think of your family and friends and write down a list of people who have a lot of outdoor space. If you need to rent, consider bartering any skills that you have for a discount on the building or function hall.If you are having your wedding outside, make sure that you have a backup plan in case it rains.
If you are asking to use someone else's property, you can say something like "Me and Bill were really looking to save money, and you have a beautiful backyard. What do you think about having our wedding at your place?"

, Instead of having a professional photographer take photos, consider using your friends to create a photo album that you can remember. Encourage your friends and families to snap photos at the wedding and have them all upload the photos to a file sharing website. You can then create the album yourself, or you can do the project with a close friend.Websites like Eversnap will create an album taken by friends and family at the wedding. These services usually charge a fee.
 Instead of hiring a designer or printer to create custom guest invitations, consider designing and creating them yourself. If you aren't artistically inclined, ask your design-oriented friends for help or use a website like Freelancer, Fiverr, or Etsy to get your designs created cheaply. Then, once you have the design you can print them out yourself., Catering and food costs can run as some of the highest expenses for any wedding. If you aren't good at cooking, check to see if anyone in your family is and is willing to help. If no one in your family can cook, see if a local culinary school will cater your wedding at a discounted price., Instead of renting sound equipment, ask around your circle of family and friends to see if anyone has their own sound equipment that you can use. If your reception hall is smaller, you won't need a commercial grade sound system to play music. Get good speakers and hook them up to a laptop or iPod.Instead of hiring and paying for a DJ see if any of your family or friends wants to be in control of the playlist.
 Traditionally a reception serves a sit down dinner. Rather than pay the expense for catering, consider a less formal option for your reception. You could have a buffet style reception or have a breakfast or lunch reception earlier in the day. This will cut down on the food cost for your wedding.