 This can be done by soaking the roots in water for several hours each day, or if you need to preserve the root system for a longer period of time, you may want to consider “heeling” the plant. Heeling requires placing the shrub's roots in a shallow hole with light dirt coverage and watering it regularly. This can preserve the plant for up to three months.


Every bare roots shrub is different. Ask your nursery for specific care instructions, and make sure you let the nursery know how long it will be before you plant the shrub.
For plants that need high levels of moisture, you may need to keep the roots submerged until you plant.
For plants that need a lower level of moisture, you can typically keep them sheltered and water the roots several times a day.
Heeling is the best option if you plan to keep the shrub for several days, weeks, or up to three months prior to planting. Dig a shallow trench in the dirt. Lay the roots out resting diagonally along the trench. Cover the roots lightly, and water the soil regularly (several times a week) until you’re ready to plant the shrub., Once you’re ready to move the bare roots shrub from its temporary location to be planted, gently remove any water absorbing materials that are attached to the roots. Examine roots and remove any that are broken or bent. If there are roots that have circled, prune these away as well. Left on the plant, these roots can circle around the trunk, choking it., After pruning, soak the roots in water for at least two hours, but they can soak up to a full day. Fill a bucket or planter with water at a level high enough to fully submerge the root system without stuffing or cramping. This allows the freshly pruned roots to absorb water and ensures ease of root growth after planting. Move the shrub directly from the soaking spot to the hole., This is a supportive structure that allows the roots to rest without bunching below the weight of the shrub. Create a small, dense mound of dirt in the bottom of the hole. Then, place the tip of the cone directly below the trunk where it begins to branch out. Gently, spread the roots around the mound of dirt., Once the roots are spread over the cone of dirt, carefully shift the shrub to a fully vertical, upright position. Make sure the most attractive side of the shrub is facing the direction where it will be viewed most often. Hold the shrub in this position as you refill the hole.The hole should be deep enough to cover the full roots without bunching.
The width of the hole should be at least three times as wide as the fully extended roots, but for the best effect, the hole should be five times the width of the roots., Carefully scoop dirt back into the hole a few inches at a time, taking care not to step on, break, or harm the roots. Unlike bulbed and burlapped or containerized shrubs, do not tamp down the dirt as this may cause root damage. Instead, when the hole is half-filled, water it thoroughly to remove unnecessary air pockets and compact the dirt to support the roots without impeding root growth. Finish filling the hole, and water again., Make an impression around the trunk and a raised ridge around the outside of the hole to direct water towards the roots. Water the shrub thoroughly once a week. To ensure you water the plant adequately, dig down two to three inches in several spots around the plant before you begin watering. Check to see that the soil here is damp but not saturated. When saturated, you will see standing water.