 Find out what is going on in everyone's life. This includes daily schedules, hobbies, extra-curriculars, changes in occupation, and more. Ask one family member of each family to provide the information that will come to make up your newspaper. This will help decide how much material you have, what sorts of information you have to build around, and also brainstorm about broader themes.


Ask your family members to contribute drawings, poems, stories, pictures, or anything they'd like their family to see. This is a great time to get input and make everyone feel involved.;
, One of the best reasons to make a family newspaper is to keep family updated on what your kids are doing. Don't simply list all of your children's accomplishments. Instead, have them write in their own words what they're doing and what's important in their lives. This will add a personal touch and really make your family feel connected to your children, even if they're far away.If your children don't want to write anything themselves, or are too young, do an interview. Some questions to ask them include: what they're doing, what they're proud of, what sorts of accomplishments they have recently achieved, and what they hope to achieve in the near future.
 Littering your paper with vacation stories may make your life sound better, but only represents a small snapshot of what your life is really like. Make sure to tell what's happening in your ordinary lives as the extraordinary.Don't inundate your readers with too many details. They will want to hear how your children are doing in school, but not what every day of school is like. Include a concise summary, rather than lengthy descriptions. Have a friend read the newspaper before you print it to help highlight what they might find most interesting and cut out some of the fluff.
 Be selective about how much information you are sharing. Don't include struggles your family has had, such as health issues, or business and career problems you've have in the past year. Keep things positive and light!


If you want them to know what is happening with your business, add them to an e-mail or mailing list for your business newsletter, if you have one. Keep your personal and business life separate in a family newspaper, unless it's general, good news about a career change or accomplishment.
 Invite your family to an upcoming birthday party, or include an article about Thanksgiving and invite the family to dine at your house. Although the paper will succeed in bringing your family together, the paper can also encourage real bonding between your family members., The paper should be informative, but also fun. This will make it a joy to read and also keep your children and other family members more interested in helping you work on it.


Include artwork by your children. This is a great way to promote your child to be creative and show off their talents. If they enjoy comics, have them write a comic.Include short writings by your children. This can be a joke, a story, a movie review, or even something informative. This way rather than just telling your family what your children are up to and good at, you'll be able to show them. This can also create a time-capsule for your child's creative expressions to look at down the road.
This can be a great time to link your extended family. Include news that recalls common family histories, such as vacation spots or your hometown. This will make the newspaper less an abstract news update and part of their life.
 You may have so much to tell your family that you are tempted to write lengthy paragraphs. This can give a lot of great information about what your family has been doing. But pictures and other forms of media are a great change of pace. Include plenty of quality pictures that accompany activities your describing and that chronicle what your family has been doing.If your kid is a budding photographer, have them include some of their photos. This can be things taken from their cell phone such as a selfie or a fun activity they did with friends. This is also a great spot to share artwork by your kid.
 The nuts and bolts aspects of creating a newspaper can be daunting. You may have a vision for what you want it to include, but not know how to get started. Choose a good software for your computer that makes the creation process simple.Look for one that is user friendly and has the features you're looking for. You might want to include a lot of pictures, flashy fonts, or a more simple design that emphasizes content. There are many great products involved like Quark that have templates available for free.You can even use Microsoft Word if this is easily available to you.Look through a newspaper for ideas. This is a great way to find things you like and don't like. Look for community newspapers that are more likely to have similar content you desire, and not giant daily papers that emphasize up-to-date news.
 Whether it's the "Johnson Family Paper" or "The McDonald Journal," it should be creative and reflect that family's name and daily happenings. This can also be a time to narrow down a name that reflects your purpose. If you plan on coming out with a Christmas, New Years, or summer newspaper, you can choose a name that will reflect this.


Get your family's input on a name. You can choose a name that everyone is enthusiastic about to keep everyone involved.
 This mainly depends on how long you plan to make your paper and how much information you're able to come up with. You will need a lot of information if you'd like to release your paper every week as opposed to every month. However, if you have lots of stories and things to include, you may want to make your paper more frequent.


Making a newspaper should be fun. Don't make it so often that it becomes a burden to either your or the readers.
 Whether its for a school project or a summertime craft project, a family newspaper can be a great project for your children. Ask them about what looks visually appealing to them and look through examples of community newspapers. If you have the time, you can turn the production of the paper into a craft project where your kids get to show off their artistic side.


Buy paper, markers and glue and let your kids design part of the paper. Once they make something they like, you can make copies or scan the page and make it part of the paper. This will promote your kids' involvement but also be a great creative exercise for them.
 Whether you choose to send your paper by email, or deliver a printed version at each member's house, make sure that you find a way for each member of the family to read and delight in your wonderful paper.


E-mail is a great way to save cost and makes it more likely that you reach a wider number of family members. A digital creation will also take less work and maybe mean you are able to produce it more regularly than the process of a paper copy.
 If you print your newspaper, the printing of lots of copies and purchasing of paper and ink can become expensive. Price each paper so that the expenses of producing this paper can be covered without being a detriment to your personal finances.

