 When you apply makeup, you should always start with clean hands and a fresh canvas. Wash your hands with soap and warm water. Cleanse your face with your regular face wash. Pat your face dry with a clean towel. Before you move on to the next step, allow your skin to rest for 2 to 3 minutes.


If you don’t have sensitive skin, consider using a gentle exfoliator.;
, Mineral makeup will not adhere, or bond, to dry skin. Applying moisturizer to your face will help your makeup stick to your face and last throughout the day. Wash and dry your hands. Use your clean fingers to apply moisturizer to your face a neck. Let the product settle into your skin for ten minutes.


If you have oily skin, consider applying a mineral-based makeup primer in addition to your moisturizer., Concealer provides additional coverage for dark spots, red patches, and blemishes. To apply this product, use a concealer brush. Move the brush over the area you wish to cover in the feathery strokes. Apply several light layers of concealer to the area.


Apply a green mineral concealer to red patches of skin.
Apply a yellow mineral concealer to mask dark circles.
Apply a concealer matches your skin tone to blemishes.
This product should be applied before you put on mineral foundation., Mineral foundation is traditionally applied with a kabuki brush. This large makeup brush is designed to buff on the mineral makeup in large, circular motions and its short bristles provide fuller coverage. The brush also holds a lot of powder.


Pour, or tap, a small amount of mineral powder into the lid of the jar. You will need less powder than you expect—a little goes a long way.
Swirl your kabuki brush inside of the lid until it takes up all of the mineral powder.
Tap the brush on the side of the lid to remove any excess powder., Mineral foundation is applied to the face in a light, circular motion. This method of application ensures even, full coverage. Begin by framing your face with the mineral makeup. Gradually fill in the remaining areas—don’t forget to apply the mineral foundation to your ears, eyelids, neck, and underneath your chin., Mineral foundation should be gradually built up in thin layers. This will create a natural look.


Reload your kabuki brush with more mineral powder.
Apply the product to your face and neck with large circular brushstrokes.
Repeat if needed., After you’ve applied the mineral foundation, you can add a flush of color to your cheeks with a mineral blush. If you prefer a sun-kissed look, apply a mineral bronzer to your face.


Tap a very small amount of blush or bronzer into the lid—use much less powder than you think you may need.
Swirl your powder brush inside the cap until all of the blush or bronzer is gone.
Tap the brush on the side of the lid.
Apply a small amount of blush to the apples of your cheeks and brush back towards your hairline.
Apply a small amount of bronzer to your forehead, cheeks, nose, and chin., Tap, or pour, a tiny amount of mineral eyeshadow into the jar’s lid. Swirl your eyeshadow brush around the lid until it contains all of the mineral powder. Tap off the brush on the side of the lid. Apply the eyeshadow from the outer corner of your eye to the inner corner with quick, downward strokes.


To complete the look, add mineral mascara to your lashes. , Mineral veil is a finishing powder. This product will give you a nice, healthy glow while helping to keep your makeup in place. To apply this product:


Pour, or tap, a small amount of the powder into the container’s lid.
Swirl your kabuki brush around the inside of the lid until all of the mineral veil is gone.
Tap the brush on the side of the lid.
Apply the mineral veil to your face and neck with large, circular brush strokes.