 Your references page should be a new page after the last page of your paper. Type the word “References” on the first line of the page, and center it.Do not use bold, italics, or quotation marks on the word “References.”
Double space the entire “References” page.
Do not add an extra line between the title '”References” and your first reference item., When including references, indent all lines except the first line. The first line should be flush with your left margin. The second and subsequent lines of the citation entry should be indented ½ inch from your left margin.In your word processing program, you can apply hanging indentations to the entire list of references.


To set your indentations to hanging, open the “Paragraph” dialog box by clicking the small arrow to the right of “Paragraph” near the top of your MS Word document.
After the box opens, look for the section called “Indentation.”
Click on the drop down menu called “Special” that is in this section and select “Hanging.”
Your entries will now automatically have hanging indentations.
 Create an alphabetized list of your sources using the author’s last name. If the source you are using contains two or more authors, use the last name of the author listed first in the citation.Alphabetize letter by letter. Remember that “nothing precedes something,” or in other words, the shorter version of two similar names should come first. For example, Brown, J. R. would come before Browning, A. R.
Alphabetize the prefixes M', Mc, and Mac exactly as they are shown. Do not alphabetize them as if they were all spelled out (Mac).
Ignore apostrophes in names. For example, MacNeil would come before M'Carthy.
 If you have two or more works by the same author (or two authors with the same name), list the works chronologically with the earliest publication first and the most recently published last.List one-author entries before multiple-author entries, when the first author is the same. For example, “Alleyne, R. L. (2001).” would come before “Alleyne, R. L. & Evans, A. J. (1999).”

, Alphabetize group authors (or no authors) by the first significant word in the name. Use the full official name of the group or organization. A parent company or organization should be listed before its subsidiary group or organization.


For example, “American Society for the Prevention and Cruelty of Animals,” not “ASPCA”.
For example, “University of Michigan, Department of Psychology,” not “Department of Psychology, University of Michigan”.
 When there is no single author or group author listed for a publication, the title of the work moves up to the author position in the citation. Alphabetize these listings by the first significant word in the title.For example, “Merriam-Webster's collegiate dictionary (11th ed.). (2005) Springfield, MA: Merriam-Webster."

