 Part of being an open person is being receptive to new ideas and experiences. This will help you relate to a wider range of people.


Get out of your comfort zone and try new things, even when you don't think you'll like them.
Sometimes your tastes change, both literally or metaphorically. Give some things another shot after a few years. If you're convinced that you hate Brussels sprouts but you haven't had them since you were five, go ahead and try a bit of that dish your coworker brought in.
Don't make snap judgments. Try your best to give everything a fair, unbiased look before rejecting it. You never know when your presumptions may be misinformed.Being open-minded doesn't mean you have to accept everything uncritically. Feel free to trust your judgment if something still doesn't seem right after you've learned enough about it.
 In some ways, this goes hand in hand with being more open-minded. Always remember that people have their own experiences, beliefs, and preferences that are often very different from yours. You can't tell a person's life story from her appearance or even one conversation.


Always treat others with respect, no matter who they are. Try to put yourself in other people's shoes and treat them how you would want to be treated in that situation.
You never know what relationships and opportunities you miss out on just by being a little too judgmental at the wrong time.
Remember that when you're quick to judge others, they'll be just as quick to judge you., Connect to other people by asking questions and genuinely listening to their answers. People who ask questions frequently in a conversation appear more friendly and available than people who don't. Ask questions that will encourage openness in others.


Asking questions is the best way to learn new things.
When asked personal questions, people are likely to reciprocate with a similar question, giving you the opportunity to practice honest self-disclosure.
Asking questions can also be a method of being more open-minded and less judgmental of others. The more questions you ask, the better you get to know a person. The better you get to know someone, the less likely you'll be to judge.
If someone doesn't answer your question directly, tell him or her something about yourself as if you were asked that question. Being open encourages the people around you to open up themselves.