 When you decide to treat cystic acne with herbs internally, it is good to purify your body of toxins first. Over time, toxins from unhealthy foods can build up in your large intestine. This reduces your intestine's ability to flush toxins. When this happens, your skin can attempt to rid your body of them instead. This results in clogged pores, inflammation, and so on. Do a quick all-day fast with just water for one day. You can also do a restricted diet detox for two to three weeks.A body flooded with toxins can also cause hormonal imbalances, a possible culprit of cystic acne.
Lead up to a detox by adding lots of fresh vegetables to your diet and increase your water intake for a few days before you begin.
A juice fast is also an option. Make fresh juice in a juicer or blender and only drink this and water for two to three days.
A water fast can be done for 24 hours. Only drink water all day, resting frequently.
You can try simply cutting out diary, sugar, refined carbs, alcohol, and caffeine for two to three weeks.
Always consult a doctor before beginning a cleanse of any kind. Your body may not be able to handle reduced calories or a sudden change in diet.
 Consume herbs with the highest anti-inflammatory properties to reduce intestinal irritation. If your gut is upset, it can’t process toxins very well. This means the toxins can end up in your skin. Turmeric, ginger, and boswellia are three very strong anti-inflammatory herbs.These herbs are most commonly swallowed in capsule or pill form.
 Since some cystic acne occurs because of a hormone imbalance, you can focus on herbs that treat this. Maca root, chasteberry, black cohosh, and saw palmetto all have been used traditionally to treat hormone problems. Some also treat inflammation. Consult a doctor before taking any of these.Maca root enhances hormones and can be taken in tablets, capsules, or as a powder.
Chasteberry relieves menstrual pain, increases production of breastmilk, and relieves other menstrual cycle symptoms.
Black cohosh treats menopause and PMS symptoms as well as reduces inflammation for arthritis sufferers. It also mimics estrogen in the body.
Saw palmetto has been used to treat non-cancerous prostate growths. Researchers speculate that saw palmetto influences testosterone levels.
 Dandelion root treats many conditions in the body, including blood disorders, but also clears the skin. It has been known to treat boils, psoriasis, eczema, and of course acne. It does this by renewing the liver.


Make an herbal tea by placing two or three teaspoons (2-8 grams) of dried root into a cup of hot water for ten minutes.

