 Pour small but equal amounts of red and yellow craft paint onto a paint palette, then use a palette knife to completely blend the two together. This should result in orange paint.

For this step, try to choose a vibrant red and a vibrant yellow without any obvious cool or warm undertones. In other words, stay away from hues previously altered by other colors.
If you don't have a paint palette, you can use a small plastic paint dish or other bowl dedicated for use with arts and crafts.
After mixing the paints, use a paint brush to apply a small streak of the orange color to scrap paper. This should give you a more accurate idea of how the orange looks.
 Now that you know how to create a basic orange paint, practice creating other orange hues by either mixing in more yellow or more red.

Adding more red will create a richer hue, similar to what you might need when paining a sunset. Adding more yellow will create a brighter hue, like the color you might need when paining an apricot.
It's best to gradually blend in small additions instead of adding a lot at once. Adding too much will mean that you'll need to add more of the opposite color to even things out, which can create significant amounts of waste.
 Choose a few different variations and mix them together in a clean part of your palette.

Combine equal parts of one red and one yellow for each sample. Work through each possible combination in the same manner, and test the results on scrap paper.
Experimentation is the best way to determine which starting colors will produce which hues of orange, but there are some guidelines to keep in mind. Golden yellows and warm reds will usually produce more vibrant oranges. On the other hand, using violet-tinted reds or green-tinted yellows will create duller oranges.
 If you have two hues of orange that bookend the hue you need, try mixing both of these oranges together. Doing so should bring you closer to the desired hue.

Start by mixing equal portions of each orange. You can add more of either paint later if you need to.
Note that you can also add red or yellow paint to an orange paint to change the hue. These changes will usually be more pronounced than those created by combining multiple oranges, however.
 If you like the hue you have but wish to lighten it, add white paint. If you wish to darken the hue instead, add black paint.

Also note that black paint tend to make orange look brown and white paint can make orange look peach.
Add the white or black paint gradually, working in small amounts, to avoid creating values that are much too light or much too dark.

