 Especially if she’s fond of her family (or yours!) you can make your proposal a group affair with her favorite people. You could have her aunts and uncles wear shirts that spell out “Will you” and younger cousins in shirts that spell out “marry me?” You might even have the family hold up a “Will you marry me?” sign, while you kneel before it, extending her your ring.


Another way you could involve her family is by proposing at a family party or event, like a family Christmas party. Hide your ring inside a present, and be sure to be by her side when she opens it. When she realizes what it is, you can ask her the question you’ve been waiting for.
Family games, like a scavenger hunt, can also turn into memorable proposal opportunities. Bring the game planner in on your scheme, and have a special set of proposal clues made for your girlfriend. Await her arrival at the end of the hunt with your engagement ring in hand and someone nearby to snap a couple candid photos.
You might turn a family game of charades, sometimes called gestures, into your proposal. Orchestrate it so that you and your partner are on the same team. Then, when it’s your turn to go, get her to ask the question, “Will you marry me?” in gestures. When she finally gets the answer, drop to your knee and hold out the ring.;
, This will require some time, effort, and potentially some dancing skills on your part. But a marriage proposal through the coordinated song and dance of a group of people will make yours impossible to forget. You’ll have to get together a large group of your friends or hire performers, design your flash mob routine, practice, and then pull it off in public. For more particulars, you should check out how to organize a flash mob.


There are many locations you can spring your flash mob proposal on your bride-to-be. You might choose a mundane, everyday location where it’s sure to surprise, like a supermarket, train station, or a downtown area. You could even waylay her with your flash mob proposal on your way to a special dinner date!
If you’re not as confident in your ability to perform in public, you might want to put together a digital flash mob proposal. This has the added benefit of limiting outside interruptions and other potential mistakes that could occur during a live flash mob performance. Have a friend or a professional record your flash mob at a private location, add music, and then use it to propose.
The budget for your flash mob can be expensive. To keep things affordable, you may want to forego hiring a photographer and instead hire a videographer. This way, all your hard work, your cool choreographed moves, and the lovely message of matrimony at the end can be watched over and over again., While it might be impossible to get her favorite actor to show up and help you seal the deal, you might be able to get a written message from a celebrity that you can use with your proposal. You should check and see if there are any signings or meet-and-greet opportunities you can take advantage of. At these events, you’ll likely get a chance to explain your proposal plans and get a handwritten message from her favorite star.


Authors are well known for signing special messages to fans in their books. If your beloved possible bride has an author she’s particularly keen on, you could look up book signing dates or tour dates for that author. Come prepared with a book for the author to sign, and then at the signing, request the author to modify the message for your purposes. You might ask them to write, “To <Bride’s Name>, soon to be married to a lucky guy!” or something to that effect.
Depending on the message written, you might frame it in glass along with a picture of the two of you together. This would be a perfect surprise gift to lead into your proposal. Then, when she sees the message from her idol, have the engagement ring ready so you can pop the big question., Unless you’re a one-man-band, you might want some backup when it comes to your wedding proposal serenade. You can choose a romantic song that will sweep her off her feet, or you can write a song of your own. There are many ways you can approach this. You could take center stage yourself and sing karaoke style, or you could allow a performer to sing for you while you prepare to bend knee and propose.


Many couples have a romantic song that is special to both. If you have a romantic song, or if you know your girlfriend's favorite romantic song, you can use this in your serenade. Whether you blast it from a sound system of a restaurant or sing along to it while it plays on your phone speakers at an intimate locale, she’ll surely appreciate your thoughtfulness when you finish the song by asking for her hand in marriage.
Many popular songs have arrangements for various musical instruments. If you play an instrument, you might accompany the serenade as part of your proposal. Music arranged for your instrument can likely be found at your local music store, or online through a music retailer.