 Bread is a major contributor to a diet too high in carbs. If you love having a sandwich or taco for lunch, skip the tortilla or bun and go for a lettuce wrap.


Take a large leaf of romaine lettuce. Place your sandwich ingredients inside the wrap and roll it up. While you may initially miss the taste of bread, the crunchiness supplied by the lettuce can be quite satisfying.Many sandwich chains offer lettuce wraps as an option. Try asking if lettuce wraps are available when stopping for a sandwich at lunch. Jimmy John's has the option of an "unwich," where meats, cheeses, and veggies are encased in lettuce rather than the traditional subway bun., Pasta is a favorite dinner option for many; however, it can be high in carbs. If you're going for a low-carb diet, try altering pasta recipes to lessen your consumption of carbs.


Try alternative types of noodles. Many grocery stores offer noodles made from veggies or more substantial grains, like barley, over flour.Cut up and cook bits of chicken, turkey, tofu, or pork. Then, make a pasta dish with half-protein, half-noodles. This will reduce the overall amount of carbs while making the meal more filling., Mashed potatoes are another staple of dinners. You can replace potatoes for winter squash, which contains half as many carbs as potatoes and 80% fewer calories. Cauliflower is also lower in calories and has 5.3g of carbs per serving, versus 96.73g carbs per serving of potatoes.You can follow your regular mashed potato recipe, just substituting potatoes for squash., If you're craving high-carb items like bread, watch for low-carb varieties when possible. Grab low-carb loafs of bread and packs of tortillas. This can allow you to cut back on carbs without completely giving up the foods you love.
 When it comes to snacking, there are a variety of way to avoid carbohydrates. Many popular snack choices, like chips, are very high in carbs so watch your snack choices.


Nuts can be a healthy, low-carb snack item; however, be careful how much you consume. Many nut-items, like walnuts and almonds, tend to be high in calorie so keep consumption in moderation.
Veggies and hummus can be a great low-carb snack option. Try slicing up carrots, broccoli, and cauliflower in preparation for the week and purchase containers of hummus from your local grocery store.
Air-popped popcorn is usually a better choice than chips when you're snacking in front of the TV as it's lower carb and calorie; however, popcorn at the movies tends to be loaded with butter, oil, and salt. Try option out of movie theater popcorn and instead backing your own healthy snacks.

