


Visit the eBay Motors website featured in the Sources section of this article, then click on "Sign in" at the top of the screen.






Enter your eBay User ID and password, then click on "Sign in." If you are new to eBay, click on "Register," then follow the prompts to create an account.



Point to "Sell" in the upper-right corner of your eBay session, then click on "Sell Your Item."
Click on "Start New Listing" to begin providing eBay with the details of your auto part.



Click on "Parts and Accessories" from the category list to indicate you are selling an auto part.






Click on the automobile type of the auto part you are selling. You will be able to choose from categories such as boats, trailers, motorcycles, cars, and more.






Select the type of auto part you are selling. For example, if you chose "Car and Truck parts" as your automobile type, you can indicate your auto part as being an engine, filter, glass fixture, and more.






Select the name of the auto part you are selling. For example, if you are selling interior car parts, you can choose from options such as glove box, cup holder, sun visor, and more.






Click on "Save and Continue" to save the product details of your auto part. You will then be taken to the Parts Compatibility tool.
 Using the Parts Compatibility tool may help maximize the exposure of your listing by displaying it to buyers looking for a specific auto part compatible with their automobile.


Click on "Search Catalog," then enter the name of the part manufacturer or complete the fields that indicate the year, make, and model of the automobile that the part belongs to.






Browse through the search results and choose "Select" when you find your auto part. If you cannot find your auto part using the Parts Compatibility tool, you can enter your details manually by clicking on "Specify Part Compatibility."






Click on "Confirm Parts Details" to add the product details for your auto part to your listing. A table that indicates all compatible vehicles that can use the auto part will also be included in your listing.
 This field will allow you to specify if the auto part is new, used, or rebuilt.
 By default, keywords that describe your exact auto part will already exist in the title field if you used the Parts Compatibility tool.
 The "Add Pictures" feature will allow you to upload any pictures you want added to your listing.
 If you used the Parts Compatibility tool, the description may already be completed for you; however, you will have the option to provide additional details about your auto parts.


Provide details about the history of your auto part if it is used or rebuilt. Some buyers may want to know the history of the part they are buying; especially if the part may require future maintenance.
 You can create an auction-style listing in which users are required to bid, or set a fixed price that allows users to buy the auto part immediately.


Listing fees will vary depending on the listing type you choose and the final price at which your auto part is sold.
If you need to review listing fees for each of the auto parts you are selling, visit the e-bay "Motor Fees" website provided in the Sources section of this article to view a list of applicable listing fees.
 You can choose from a variety of shipping options, including Federal Express and United Parcel Service (UPS).


You will also be required to establish the shipping price for your item, which is separate from your listing price. If you are unsure of the shipping prices you should set, consult with a mail or packaging service to help you determine shipping costs based on the size and weight of your auto parts.
 You will have the option to choose whether or not you want to honor returns for your auto parts in the event your buyers are dissatisfied.



Click on "Save and Continue," then review the details of your listing to make sure you have provided accurate information and chosen your desired preferences.
If you are a new eBay seller, you will be required to create a seller's account before you can submit your listing. Follow the prompts provided by eBay to submit your personal details; such as your PayPal information and mailing address.
 After you click the "Submit" button, your posting will officially be added to the eBay motors listings.

