 You should immediately seek medical attention for any injury that you suffer, no matter how minor. Your health is most important. Also, by seeking medical assistance, you are able to document the injury, which will be important later when you bring a lawsuit.Contact emergency medical services or have someone take you to the hospital so that you can receive treatment.;
, Personal injury plaintiffs are able to recover for all medical treatment that they receive. For this reason, you should always hold onto every bill, notification, or record from your doctor. These will help establish how much you have spent on medical treatment.


Medical records also help show the severity of your injury. You should keep records for any physical therapy, mental health counseling, or occupational therapy that you need as a result of the injury. All can be compensated.
You should also take photographs of any visible injury. If you have cuts, bruises, stitches, marks, or swelling, then take clear, color photographs as soon as possible., Did someone see you get injured? If so, try to get their name and contact information.If you are severely injured, then quickly give the bystanders your name and email address and ask them to contact you. Tell them that you will need witnesses.


Also try to get the name of any business employee who witnessed the accident.
 As soon as possible, you should sit down and write down what you remember about the accident. Try to write in a chronological order, so that the story is easier to follow.


Also keep a pain journal. You can be compensated for pain and suffering, and you should always write down how you are feeling on any given day. Document the severity of pain, its location, and whether you miss sleep or work because of the injury., If possible, take pictures soon after you are injured. Try to get shots from several different angles. Have a friend watch you take the photos and write a note stating the date and time in which you took them.If no one can take pictures at the time that you are injured, then try to return to the business a couple days later (or when you feel up to it). By then the hazard may have been removed, but you should still take pictures.
 You should certainly meet with a personal injury lawyer to discuss a possible lawsuit. A lawyer will help you understand whether you have a strong case and what evidence might make it stronger. You also should seriously consider hiring a lawyer. The defendant almost certainly will have one, and you will be at a disadvantage if you proceed without an attorney of your own.


You might be worried about costs. Understand that many personal injury lawyers represent clients on “contingency fee.” Under this arrangement, you do not pay attorneys’ fees unless your lawyer wins the case. At that point, the lawyer will take a percentage (around 33-40%) of your jury award or settlement.You might still be responsible for costs (such as filing fees and the costs of court reporters.) But contingency fee agreements can make getting a qualified attorney affordable.
To find a personal injury lawyer, you should contact your state’s bar association, which runs a referral program. For additional tips, see Choose a Personal Injury Lawyer.
 Your lawyer will start the lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. The complaint explains the factual surroundings of the dispute and asks the court for specific relief. It also identifies the parties responsible for your injuries (the defendants).The complaint also lays out the legal elements of your claim.For example, you might sue a business for negligence if you slipped in an icy parking lot.
A negligence claim has four elements: (1) a breach of (2) a duty of care owed to you (3) which causes (4) damages.You would then allege each element: that the business owed you a duty of reasonable care because you were a customer during normal business hours, and the business breached that duty when it didn’t properly clear its parking lot. This breach then caused your injuries.
 After the complaint is filed, you must serve notice on the defendant. Your lawyer will probably hire a process server to hand deliver a copy of the complaint and a summons to the business’s agent.
 The defendant will need to answer your complaint. In the answer, the business will either admit or deny each allegation. The business can also claim to lack sufficient knowledge to appropriately admit or deny an allegation. Your lawyer will receive the copy of the answer.


You should ask your attorney for copies of all documents filed in the case. You should read everything as soon as you receive it. If you don’t understand something, then talk to your attorney.
 After a lawsuit is filed, the parties can request documents in the custody or control of the other party. This process is called “discovery.” Discovery has many parts. In addition to exchanging documents, the parties can ask each other questions in either oral or written form.The purpose of asking questions is to narrow down the factual issues that are in dispute.


As the plaintiff, you might request documents from the business. For example, if you were injured by a business’s product, you might request any document related to the product’s safety.
The business can also request documents from you. For example, they will want copies of your medical reports and the names of any witnesses you found.
 You will probably be deposed. At a deposition, a lawyer for the defendant will ask you questions, which you must answer under oath. Depositions take place in lawyers’ offices with court reporters present to take down your testimony.Your deposition testimony can be used against you at trial, especially if you say something different than what you said in the deposition. For this reason, you’ll want to prepare for the deposition with your attorney. Ask your lawyer if you can do a deposition prep. During the prep, the lawyer will ask you questions to simulate the real thing.
During the deposition, keep a few tips in mind. For one thing, do not ever guess. Instead, you should say, “I don’t know.” Also be sure that you understand the question before formulating an answer.Always stay calm. If you need to confer with your lawyer, say so. You always have the right to confer with counsel.
 Once discovery closes, then you can expect the business to file for summary judgment. In this motion, the defendant argues that there are no issues of material fact in dispute and that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.If the defendant wins, then the case is dismissed and you can’t file again.


Your lawyer will defend against this motion by pointing to facts that are in dispute. For example, the defendant might argue that it put up a sign saying “Wet Floor.” However, you might not remember seeing this sign. This is certainly a material fact that is in dispute.
 If you defeat the defendant’s summary judgment motion, then you should expect the defendant to reach out to you and offer settlement. Settlement negotiations are one form of ADR. You could be offered a settlement at any time (even before you file a lawsuit). However, the defendant has more incentive to settle once it loses its motion for summary judgment because it wants to avoid going to trial.


Mediation is another form of ADR. At mediation, a neutral third party acts as the “mediator” and tries to help the two parties come to agreement. The parties can speak to each other, to the mediator in the presence of the other party, and to the mediator alone. The mediator then uses this information to try to nudge each party to a mutually-acceptable resolution. Mediation is voluntary, and either party can walk away at any time.Arbitration is another form of ADR. Arbitration is like a trial. You and the defendant would present your case to either a single arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators, who will then decide the case. Some companies like arbitration because it is private and faster than a trial. Arbitration hearings can often be concluded in a few hours.If you are interested in settlement, mediation, or arbitration, then you should talk these options over with your lawyer. Your lawyer is ethically required to notify you of all settlement offers.
 You have a right to a jury trial. However, you should talk with your lawyer about whether or not you want to take a bench trial instead. In a bench trial, the judge will decide all legal and factual issues. In a jury trial, the judge decides legal issues but the jury is responsible for weighing the evidence and reaching a verdict.If you decide to go with a jury trial, then your lawyer will submit questions to the judge to ask prospective jurors. This process is called “voir dire.” Your lawyer will want to try to find out if a prospective juror might be biased against your case.
To uncover bias, he or she might ask the jurors whether they own a business themselves or whether they have ever been sued for personal injury. A person who has had to defend against a personal injury lawsuit might not be sympathetic to your case.
 The trial will begin with each lawyer giving the jurors a sneak peek at what the evidence will be. An opening statement is not itself evidence. However, it gives your lawyer a chance to prepare the jurors for what they are about to hear.


Your lawyer also can take the sting out of “bad facts.”For example, if you waited to seek medical treatment after the injury, then that’s a bad fact. It suggests you weren’t really injured and might be faking the injury in order to get money out of the business. Your lawyer can mention this fact in the opening statement before defense counsel gets to talk.
 Your case will consist largely of witnesses and the presentation of documentary evidence. You might need to subpoena witnesses to ensure their attendance at trial. Your lawyer can get subpoenas from the court clerk.


Common witnesses in a personal injury suit are anyone who witnessed the accident as well as business employees who were responsible for the part of the store where you were injured. For example, if you fell in an icy parking lot, then you will want to examine the employee who was supposed to shovel or salt the parking lot.
 You will undoubtedly have to testify at your trial. Your attorney will want you to walk the jury through the accident at the business, as well as your subsequent pain and suffering. You can prepare with your attorney just as you prepared for the deposition.


Remember to testify based only upon your memory. To help you visualize the scene of the accident, take a few moments to picture the day in question and visualize what happened.You will also be cross-examined by the defense counsel. You should mentally prepare yourself for a difficult cross-examination. Defense counsel’s job is to try to rattle you. Be sure to listen carefully to every question asked and answer only that question. Do not become distracted by documents that are handed to you to look at., After you present your witnesses, the defense will be able to present witnesses. Your attorney will then have a chance to cross-examine them. Your attorney will try to trip them up just as the defense counsel tried to trip you up during your testimony.


One way to undermine a witness’s testimony is to impeach the witness with a prior inconsistent statement. If the witness contradicts something he or she said in a deposition, then your attorney can point out the discrepancy. Impeachment can undermine the jury’s confidence in the witness’s truthfulness.For this reason, you want to review your own deposition testimony before taking the stand, so that you don’t impeach yourself in your own testimony.
 At the end of the presentation of evidence, each side is allowed to present a closing argument. The purpose is to sum up the evidence and argue that you should win your case. An effective closing argument in a personal injury lawsuit will also tell the jury all the good that money will do for you.For example, you could continue with physical therapy.


Your lawyer should also explain to the jury how the injuries you have suffered will impact you over the course of your life., After all evidence is presented, the judge will give the jury instructions. The jury will then retire to deliberate. In a civil suit, the verdict often does not need to be unanimous.In many states, you can prevail if 9 or 10 out of 12 jurors agree with you.
 If you lose at trial, you can consider bringing an appeal. Talk with your attorney about whether or not an appeal is worthwhile and whether your attorney will handle the appeal for you.

