 Under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), a person can obtain a copy of his immigration record from DHS. This record, which is known as an "A" file, will include all of the information the government has about your prior contacts with immigration authorities. Examining your A file is an important starting point for understanding how your past contacts with immigration may impact any future applications you file for an immigration benefit.A FOIA Request can be sent to three different agencies of DHS: United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). You will need to identify your purpose in filing a FOIA request in order to determine to which agency the request should be sent.
Only file a FOIA request if the information you need is specifically related to immigration. If, for example, you need a record of your criminal convictions in the U.S., a FOIA will not be helpful. Instead, you should request a background check from the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI).
If you wish to obtain the immigration record of a person other than yourself, you will need to secure that person's consent. If you request an immigration record for a non-consenting party, you will be provided with only limited information that is releasable to the public.
 Each DHS agency will provide you with a different section of your A file. For this reason, it is important that you identify the correct agency before filing your request so that you send it to the agency that will provide you with the information you need.If you would like information about your entries into the U.S., send your FOIA request to CBP. This is helpful if you have ever entered the U.S. fraudulently or been caught at the border when attempting to enter the U.S. illegally. The CBP record will provide you with a critical starting point for analyzing how your fraudulent or illegal entry into the U.S. will affect you if you apply for an immigration benefit or if you are fighting a removal case in immigration court.
If you need information about applications you have filed with USCIS, send your FOIA request to USCIS. For example, if you applied for residence through marriage and were denied, your USCIS record would provide you with the reasons why your application was denied.
If you have been detained by immigration authorities and wish to obtain a copy of the charging document in your case, send your FOIA request to ICE.
 A FOIA request can either be submitted by mail or electronically. If you choose to submit it by mail, you will need to fill out a copy of Form G-639.Form G-639 may be obtained from the USCIS website or by calling the toll-free USCIS Forms Request Line at 1-800-870-3676.
 Type or print neatly in blue or black ink, providing all of the information requested.In Part 1, for "Type of Request," check the box for "Freedom of Information Act."
In Part 2, if you are requesting records for yourself, enter your name and contact information. If you are an attorney, or otherwise requesting records for someone who has given you his consent, then you should enter your own contact information, but mark "no" where you are asked if you are the subject of the record.
In Part 3, write out a description of the documents you are requesting. Try to be as specific as possible. This will help the agency that receives your request ensure you are provided with the information you need. For example: "Any and all information regarding my entries into the U.S. near San Ysidro, California in April 2012."
In Part 3, include the A number for the person for whom you are requesting the record if you have it. An A number or "alien number" is a seven to nine digit number that is assigned to a person as soon as he has any contact with immigration authorities in the U.S. It is the most important source of information for tracking down an immigrant's record and can be found on any immigration document that person has received, including a charging document, receipt from USCIS or alien resident card.
In Part 4, the subject of the record must provide his contact information and sign the form before a notary public certifying that he consents to the release of his records.
 The address to which the FOIA should be sent depends on the agency to which you wish to send it.To send a FOIA request to USCIS, send it to: National Records Center (NRC), FOIA/PA Office, P.O. Box 648010, Lee’s Summit, MO 64064-8010. For overnight or certified mail, send it to National Records Center (NRC), FOIA/PA Office, 150 Space Center Loop, Suite 300, Lee's Summit, MO 64064-2139.
To send a FOIA request to CBP, send it to: FOIA Officer, 90 K Street NE, 9th Floor, Washington, D.C. 20229-1181.
To send a FOIA request to ICE send it to: Freedom of Information Act Office, 500 12th Street, SW, Stop 5009, Washington, D.C. 20536-5009.
 Alternatively, a FOIA request can be submitted electronically.To submit an electronic FOIA request to either USCIS or ICE, open the following link: http://www.dhs.gov/dhs-foia-request-submission-form. Then, select the appropriate agency from the drop down menu.
To submit an electronic FOIA request to CBP, open the following link: http://www.cbp.gov/site-policy-notices/foia. Then, click on "Submit a FOIA Request Online" in the center of the home page.
Both sites will direct you to a series of similar to those asked on Form G-639. You will need to provide contact information and specific information about your request.
Click on "Submit FOIA Request."

, If there will be a fee associated with your request, the agency that received your request will send you an invoice.Generally, you will only have to pay if the A file you requested exceeds 100 pages.
Fees should be paid by check or money order, drawn on a bank or financial institution located within the United States (“U.S.”), payable in U.S. currency, and payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security”.
 The response to your FOIA request will be sent to you by mail.


The processing time for a FOIA depends on the agency, but will typically take between one and three months. CBP often takes even longer to respond due to a backlog of FOIA requests.
If you wish to use the results of your FOIA request to understand how your immigration history will impact a future immigration application or a case before immigration court, review your record with a licensed immigration attorney.

