 Button alarms, much like magnet alarms, are also common for windows and doors.Choose an exit point that is easily accessible, like one that is free of clutter and opens easily. For windows, you should prioritize those that are chest high, as these will pose less of a risk for falling injuries.


Falling from a second story window or higher could cause serious injury or death. For this reason, you should avoid windows this high., Push button alarms will oftentimes have a thin, plastic casing that has a button built into it. When a door or window is opened, the button is released and the alarm is activated.


In many cases, the button will be in the center of its casing and positioned in such a way that when fully closed, the door or the window fully presses it.
Some button sensors may have a casing that contours itself so the sides of the casing form a cradle for the door or window. The button for the alarm is often located in the center of this cradle.
 By placing an object over the button to keep it engaged, you can fool your button alarm into thinking that the window or door is still closed. Depending on your situation, how you do this may vary. In some cases, you might:Open the door or window in extremely tiny increments. Once the button is accessible, but still engaged, use a popsicle stick to hold the button down and keep the alarm from sounding.
Use stiff card stock for sensitive alarms. Even opening your door or window a tiny amount might cause sensitive alarms to sound. Use a thin piece of stiff material, like card stock, and wiggle it between the space between the button and the door or window to hold the button in place.
 To prevent setting off the alarm after you leave, you'll need to fasten your button blocker in place to prevent the alarm from activating. In most cases, you should be able to use a durable tape, like duct tape, to hold your button blocker in place and keep the button pressed.


Many doors and windows are painted. Be careful when applying tape to these surfaces. Sometimes the tape can damage the paint job when you pull it free.For more permanent disabling measures, you may want to glue your button blocker in place. However, doing so will make this point more accessible to burglars as well.
 Your button blocker may be obvious on your window, so you may want to remove it after you're done bypassing your alarm. Since removing your blocker while the alarm is activated may result in you setting it off, you may want to wait until the alarm is turned off before you remove your blocker.

