 During a pitch you will need to fully utilize your motion to produce as much power behind the ball as possible. Part of keeping the full force behind the ball involves properly positioning your fingers during the pitch. Keep some of these tips in mind when pitching:Keep fingers behind the ball at all times. Avoid curling your hand or fingers in front of or to the side of the ball as you throw it.
Hold the ball using your thumb, pointer, and index fingers.
Your fingers should be placed across the horseshoe stitching, running parallel with it.
This grip can also help with accuracy and consistency when throwing pitches.;
, Even though you may train often enough and have adequate strength, pitching the ball without any consistency will prevent you from developing more pitching velocity. Consistent training is a key element of your practice that will help you develop faster pitching velocity.Try recording your practice sessions and analyzing your technique.
Coaches will often be able to help you analyze and improve your consistency.
 Long toss will train your pitching skills by gradually increasing the amount of distance you are throwing the ball. It's a good technique to drill your throwing mechanics at different levels of intensity, improve power and velocity, and grant you familiarity with the motion of pitching in many circumstances. Follow this basic long toss training routine to start improving the power and technique of your pitches:Warm up by simply playing catch or other light activity.
Throw the ball around 60' feet for about four minutes.
Move up to throwing the ball at 90' feet for three minutes.
For two minutes, throw the ball at 130'.
Maximize the distance by throwing the ball between 160-180' for two minutes.
Bring it back down to throwing at 45' for one minute as a cool down.
 It may be tempting to think of pitching as solely and upper body motion or technique. However, proper pitching that yields high velocity throws will require your entire body to work together in one fluid motion. This concept is know as the kinetic chain and it's something you should keep in mind when practicing technique.Inefficiency or weakness in one motion or body part can weaken the entire pitch.
The entire body must work together in order to generate more effective and powerful pitches.
 When you are pitching you will be using your entire body. This movement will require you to fully commit to the motion and use your maximum effort to throw the ball as fast as you can. Make sure you are using the full motion and torso rotation to maximize the velocity of your pitches.Higher speeds of torso, hip and shoulder rotation will increase pitching velocity.
Commit to improving and training your technique and mechanics.
 The main source of velocity in a pitch will come from keeping your arm and hand directly behind the ball. Only at the very end of the pitching motion should you use your wrist to snap the ball. Always remember to keep your arm and hand directly behind the ball to build more velocity behind your pitches.Rotating your wrist too early will take away some of the force behind the ball.
Keep your hand, wrist, and arm straight when pitching.

