 Starting with a rectangular sheet works best. As above, the paper you pick will depend on the box's purpose. If this is a gift or a decorative item, use patterned or brightly colored paper. If it's just for practice, use scrap paper.
 If using patterned paper, make sure the pattern is on the inside. This is in contrast to Method 1, so be sure to pay attention. Unfold the paper., Make sure the pattern is on the inside. Take the outer edges and fold to the center crease. Unfold the two creases you just made.









The paper should now have four vertical sections. At this point, the paper is still half folded, so you should only see two of them and no pattern.
 The paper should now have flaps, with the pattern of the paper visible.









Each flap should be three layers folded on top of one another in a Z pattern.
Do not unfold the paper.
 When the paper is face down, you should see only the center crease and the two lengthwise edges. Fold the paper towards the middle crease so that it lines up with the two outer creases. Unfold partially so that the outer creases return to edges.









There should be two lengthwise sections before unfolding and four lengthwise sections after.
 Line up the bottom outer edge with the crease.









The new triangular section will have a flap in the middle of it.
 This should create a new flap in the shape of a symmetrical trapezoid.
 The bottom right corner will be on the other side of the third crease.









The newly made section will be triangular with a point at the end. The top should have a flap.
 Lift the newly folded section and carefully slip into the flap on the section beneath it. The flap and the folded triangular corner will be visible.
 Take the triangular corner and fold underneath the flap. You may need to re-crease the folds.









You should have a straight edge along the bottom. The newly folded flap section will be in the shape of a trapezoid. It will sit with its parallel sides flush with a second larger trapezoid.
 It may help to turn the paper 180 degrees before you begin.









When finished, the two sides should mirror each other. The paper should now be in the shape of an oblong octagon.
 This should complete the box by creating four standing sides. You may need to reinforce the crease to get the sides to stand better. As with Method 1, you may want to decorate the bed if it's for a special occasion.








