 Scuba divers learns basic universal signs during training, which should be practiced and reinforced often.


Individuals should practice and review signs on land before entering the water.
If you are partnered with someone you don't know, take a moment and go over some signs with them and the dive master to make sure that you are on the same page. 

, The "Okay" signal is made by joining the thumb and index fingers to form a loop, and extending the third, fourth, and fifth fingers.


This signal can be used as both a question and a response.
The "Okay" signal is a "demand-response" signal, meaning that if one diver asks another diver if he is okay, the latter is expected to respond with either an "Okay" signal or a "Not Okay" signal.
 This signal is made by extending a flattened hand and pivoting it slowly at the wrist, similar to how people signal "so-so" in a normal conversation.


A diver communicating a problem underwater should then point to the source or location of the problem using their index finger. The most common use of the "Problem" hand signal is to communicate an ear pressure problem.
 The "Ear Problem" signal is similar to the "Problem" sign. The diver, after giving the problem sign, points to their ears.
 The "Okay" and "Problem" surface signals involve the whole arm, so that boat captains and surface support staff can easily understand a diver's communication from far away.


The surface "Okay" sign is made by forming a circle with both arms raised over the head or, if only one arm is free, by touching the top of the head with the fingertips.
The "Help" or "Problem" signal is made by waving the arm over the head to call for attention. Note: don't wave "hello" to a dive boat on the surface, because the captain is likely to think you need assistance.
 The "Up" or "End the Dive" hand signal is created by doing a thumbs-up sign.


The "Up" signal is one of the most important signals in scuba diving. Any diver can end a dive at any point for any reason by using the "Up" signal.
This important dive safety rule ensures that divers are not forced beyond their comfort level underwater. The "Up" signal is a demand-response signal. A diver who signals "Up" to his buddy should receive the "Up" signal in return so that he can be sure that his signal was understood.
 *The "Down" hand signal: The thumbs-down hand signal communicates "Go Down" or "Descend" while underwater.
 The "Slow Down" Hand Signal is made by moving down a flat hand with palm facing downward.


"Slow Down" is another basic signal that is taught to all student divers before their first scuba dive. Instructors use this signal to tell enthusiastic students to swim slowly and enjoy the incredible underwater world.
 "Go in This Direction" hand signal is used to indicate or suggest a direction of travel. Scuba divers use the fingertips of a flattened hand to point out the desired direction.


Using all five fingers to point out a direction of travel helps to avoid confusion with the "Look at" signal, which is made by pointing with a single index finger.
 The "Level Off" hand signal is made by extending a flattened hand, palm down, and slowly moving it side-to-side horizontally. This signal means "remain at this depth."


The "Level Off" signal is most commonly used to communicate that divers have reached the planned maximum depth for a dive, or to communicate that divers should hold a previously designated depth for safety or a decompression stop.
 For the "Buddy Up" or "Stay Together" hand signal a diver raises both index fingers side-by-side to indicate "Buddy-Up" or "Stay Together".


Scuba diving instructors use this hand signal to remind student divers to stay close to their buddies. Divers also occasionally use this signal to reassign buddy teams while underwater. For example, when two divers in a group are low-on-air and ready to ascend, they may communicate "we'll stay together and ascend" using the "Buddy Up" hand signal.
 The "Low-On-Air" signal is made by placing a closed fist against the chest.
 The "Out-Of-Air" is indicated by moving a flat hand across the throat in a slicing motion to indicate that a diver is "cut-off" from his air supply.


This signal requires an immediate response from the diver's buddy, who should allow the out-of-air diver to breathe from his alternate air source regulator while the two divers ascend together.
 The "I'm Cold" hand signal is made by crossing his arms and rubbing his upper arms with his hands, as if he were trying to warm himself.

