, Fill a large mixing bowl with 1½ cups (125 grams) of crushed graham crackers. Add 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) (30 grams) of white sugar and 2 teaspoons of pumpkin pie spice. Stir together with a rubber spatula until evenly combined.

The graham crackers need to be finely crushed; they should resemble coarse sand. You can crush them using a blender or food processor.
 If you have not yet done so, cut the butter into small cubes, then melt it in the microwave or in a little saucepan over the stove. Pour the butter into the graham cracker mixture, then stir it in with a rubber spatula., Set the pan aside. You will bake it when you bake the cheesecake., You can do this using an electric mixer, a handheld beater, or a food processor set to medium speed for this., Turn the speed on your electric down to low, and beat the mixture well after each egg that you add. Keep beating until the eggs are completely mixed, and no streaks of egg yolk remain., Keep folding the sour cream until it is evenly mixed in. You don't want to see any streaks or swirls., Take out 1 cup (250 grams) of the batter, and put it into a medium-sized mixing bowl. Fold in the pumpkin purée, then add the flour and pumpkin pie spice. Set the bowl aside., Note that you are only stirring the vanilla into the plain batter, and not the pumpkin batter., Spoon half of the pain/vanilla batter into your cake pan. Use the back of the spoon to spread it around. Next, spoon all of the pumpkin batter on top. To avoid messing up the bottom layer, drop little spoonfuls of the pumpkin batter on top of the plain batter, then smooth it out with the back of your spoon. Spoon the rest of the plain/vanilla batter on top., It is ready when the center is almost set. Don't worry if it looks raw; it will set up over the next few hours., Once the cake has finished baking, turn the oven off, and let the cheesecake sit inside for 2 hours., To de-mold the cheesecake: run a sharp knife around the edges of the cake, between the crust and the sides of the pan.Then, slowly open the latch, and pull apart the pan. You can serve it as is, or with a dollop of whipped cream.