 Proverbs 31:10-12 says, "A wife of noble character who can find? She is worth far more than rubies. Her husband has full confidence in her, and lacks nothing of value. She brings him good, not harm, all the days of her life."


It is interesting that it says, "A wife of noble character who can find?" meaning that it is very rare. But if you are such a wife, you are worth far more than rubies! That is some incentive to become a wife of rare quality, yes? If you are worth far more than rubies, then you are highly prized. That is always a good thing when it comes to marriage.
Why does her spouse have confidence in her? Because she brings him good, not harm; she is a good person. He has confidence that she isn't going to cheat on him or leave him because she is a faithful woman. He has confidence that she won't be lazy because she is a hard worker. He has confidence that she will always love him because she isn't selfish, and does rightly.
Contrast this with another verse in Proverbs, "better to live on a corner of the roof than share a house with a quarrelsome wife." (Proverbs 21:9) Many women can be quarrelsome, meaning they love drama, and they always want to start fights. Don't be a doormat, but don't be overly quarrelsome either. Obviously, if you try to fight with your partner all the time, that would bring him harm and not good. So seek to keep the peace, and bring him good instead.;
, Proverbs 31:13-15 says, "She selects wool and flax and works with eager hands. She is like the merchant ships, bringing her food from afar. She gets up while it is still night; she provides food for her family and portions for her female servants."


The equivalent of this today would be: keep your house clean. Do the dishes when they need to be done. Don't let the laundry pile up. Make sure you keep your spouse fed and don't let him stay hungry, etc. Yes, they can feed themselves; but if they are the ones working, the least you can do is cook for them.
It is interesting that it says, "She gets up while it is still night." This is a reality for any mother with small children already, but the idea is, you need to serve your family and not be selfish. Don't sleep, if a member of your family needs something, especially your children. Their needs come before yours, within reason. Don't completely neglect your own needs, but put their needs first. The mother is supposed to be the caretaker of the family. This is hard, if you are working as well, but try to serve your family when you are home in any way you can. Your family is your primary ministry in life.
If you are also a breadwinner in your household, you may need to hire help to do this (especially the cooking and cleaning). The important thing is that it gets done. Your extra income should more than balance out the extra money you need to spend on hired help.
 Proverbs 31:16 says, "She considers a field and buys it; out of her earnings she plants a vineyard." Make great decisions when it comes to what you purchase. In our modern day, don't get fooled by advertisers who want to sell you anything and everything. Consider what you buy before you buy it, in everything. Be a good steward with your money and what you choose to buy.


There is a comical quote that says, "Lucky is the man who can make more than his wife spends." But seriously, don't overspend. Divorce is often caused by arguments over money. Your spouse worked hard for that money, so spend it wisely and only on necessary things. In regards to planting a vineyard, not many can do that today, but it means to do something productive with your time. Write, make jewelry, teach a class, get a different job, etc.
Verse 27 says she "does not eat the bread of idleness." Don't waste your time and be idle, doing nothing. There are plenty of jobs that you can do from home, if you are a stay at home mom, such as telemarketing, sewing, writing, and graphic design. You could even make a little extra income by selling stuff you no longer need or want (like toys your kids have outgrown, books and DVDs you've already read, electronics you've replaced, etc.) on eBay. Try to make good use of your time and be productive.
 Proverbs 31:17 says, "She sets about her work vigorously; her arms are strong for her tasks." Don't be lazy, but enjoy the work that you do for your family. The Bible says, "Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for human masters." (Colossians 3:23) You are working to serve your spouse and children, but primarily you are working to serve God. You may think at times that your family doesn't deserve your hard work, but you are not working for them, per se; you are working for God. Serve God by serving the needy and your family and children, teaching them to serve others.


Some say that motherhood is the most thankless job because you never get a promotion or public recognition. You just do all your tasks humbly and quietly. This is why some women get frustrated about the work they have to do, but always remember, you are working unto God. God will reward you for what you do, don't worry.
Jesus said in Matthew 6:19, "Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moths and vermin destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moths and vermin do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal." There may not be many rewards in this life, but you are building treasures in heaven with everything you do for your family.
1 Cor. 3:14-15 says, "If what has been built survives, the builder will receive a reward. If it is burned up, the builder will suffer loss but yet will be saved—even though only as one escaping through the flames." Whatever we build on the foundation of Jesus in our lives is what we will be rewarded for in heaven, even if it doesn't last. Every selfless deed, every act of love, we will be rewarded for in heaven someday. Amen.
 Proverbs 31:21 says, "She opens her arms to the poor and extends her hands to the needy." A practical way of doing this is making sack lunches and passing them out to the homeless. Or, another thing you can do is buy an extra burger and a side order when you get fast food, and give it to someone you see that seems to need it. Donate extra income to charity, and give away old clothes and things you no longer need to charity as well. You can volunteer to tutor low income students for free who can't afford a tutor. Volunteer at a local shelter to lead a Bible study, and encourage everyone there; volunteer at your local hospital, or volunteer in other ways.
 Verse 22 does say, "She is clothed in fine linen and purple." So this Proverbs 31 woman is well dressed. But keep in mind verse 30, "Charm is deceptive, and beauty is fleeting; but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised." The most important thing to keep attractive is your heart. Beauty is fleeting. Everyone ages, but you will have your heart and your character as long as you are alive. Work on cultivating your inner beauty more than your physical beauty.
 Verse 23 says, "Her husband is respected at the city gate, where he takes his seat among the elders of the land." Don't gossip about your spouse and tear down his character to others. Speak in such a way about him to others so that others will respect him.
 Verse 25 says, "She is clothed with strength and dignity; she can laugh at the days to come." Don't be overly stressed or worried about anything. Trust that God has your future in the palm of his hand, then you can "laugh at the days to come." Be a woman of faith, not fear.
 Verse 26 says, "She speaks with wisdom, and faithful instruction is on her tongue." In order to teach your children, seek to grow in wisdom. Read books. Listen to sermons. Read the Bible as much as you can. Pray for wisdom.
 Verse 28 and 29 say, "Her children arise and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praises her: 'Many women do noble things, but you surpass them all.' " The main way to gain the respect of your children and spouse is to not have a temper. Seek to have self-control in every area of life. Also the more you are a hard worker, the more they will respect you.
 Although God will help you, God helps those who help themselves. If you take on what you know you can't handle, God may not help you with that. This could be having children when you know you can't provide for them, or don't want them (which would mean it would take an emotional toll on you greater than you can handle), taking on a greater workload than you can take, etc.

