 Most of the materials are common household items that anyone can cobble together in a pinch. Be sure to take time finding fresh, high quality cardboard without any wear and tear.


1 or 2 thin sheets of cardboard, ideally 0.70mm or lower. Make sure the cardboard is adequately stiff so it won't bend when strumming the guitar. Grab an acoustic guitar pick the same size of the pick you're trying to create. Make sure this pick matches the shape and thickness you're looking for. This pick will serve as the reference for your homemade pick.You need a pen, pencil, or thick sharpie so you can outline the acoustic guitar pick on the cardboard.
Get some basic scotch tape to cover your cardboard guitar pick once it's complete.
A millimeter ruler is necessary to measure the precise thickness of the cardboard.
Scissors are crucial as you need to cut the pick out of the cardboard.
 Using your millimeter ruler or your pick, carefully find out the exact thickness of the cardboard. Traditional cardboard or paperboard is around 0.25mm wide. Tape another layer of cardboard atop of the original if you'd prefer a thicker guitar pick.
 Take your writing utensil and trace the shape of the pick onto the cardboard. Remember to take this step slowly and carefully to ensure you're tracing the exact shape of the guitar pick.
 Cut very cautiously around the outline of the pick you traced onto the cardboard. Delicately navigate the scissors along the outline in order to capture the shape of the pick.
 Put the real pick on top of your homemade pick and see if they match up. Ideally there should be no overlap between the cardboard and the actual pick.


Check to see if there are any uneven edges on your cardboard pick. Carefully cut off any excess cardboard but be careful not to cut off more than necessary.
Try out the cardboard pick and see how it feels. Make sure to play it at as hard or fast as you would with an actual pick in order to assess the durability of your homemade pick in a live setting.
Compare and contrast the way both picks sound on the guitar. Pay attention to the subtle differences in tone when the picks hit the strings. Make the necessary adjustments if the cardboard pick still isn't getting the sound you desire.
 Your pick may bend too easily while playing, so make sure you take extra steps to reinforce it if necessary. Try putting scotch tape over your cardboard pick to prevent bending. Experiment with different layers of cardboard and tape to obtain the right thickness.

