 If you know you’re at risk for a disease, you are much more likely to pay attention to its symptoms. This is especially important with hypothyroidism because the thyroid gland affects the entire body, making symptomatic identification alone difficult—blood tests are required to confirm it. Women are more likely to develop it, as are people over age 60. You are also more likely to develop hypothyroidism if you have one of the following conditions:Have delivered a baby (or been pregnant) in the last six months
Have previously experienced problems with the thyroid gland
Have another autoimmune disease (lupus, type 1 diabetes, anemia, rheumatoid arthritis, etc.)
Have had the thyroid gland removed
Have received radiation to the thyroid, chest, or neck
Have the female genetic disorder Turner syndrome
Thyroid diseases runs in your family
Have received surgery to correct a thyroid problem;
, Hard stools or trouble pushing stools out (constipation) can indicate hypothyroidism because when your body doesn’t get enough thyroid hormone, its processes start slowing down, including digestion., As hypothyroidism progresses, you may notice an increased sensitivity to cold temperatures wherever you are located.This is due to the body’s processes slowing down from lack of thyroid hormone., You may also continue to feel tired and lethargic as hypothyroidism progresses because the lack of thyroid hormone causes your metabolism to slow down.Hypothyroidism can also cause sleep apnea and anemia, both of which cause fatigue.
 In females, the decrease in thyroid hormone causes irregular periods and can lead to a reduction or impairment of fertility, the ability to get pregnant.It can also cause periods with really heavy flow.
 Many men with untreated hypothyroidism experience decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, and delayed ejaculation. If you're suffering from a combination of these problems, you should go to your doctor to get tested for hypothyroidism., Hypothyroidism can cause brittle nails, or cause fingernails to split from the nail bed through the nail plate.Brittle nails are an irritating, discouraging result of body systems slowing down as hypothyroidism begins to affect the body.


Hypothyroidism can also cause dry, brittle hair and hair loss.
 Feeling weak goes hand-in-hand with feeling fatigued and lethargic, which are a result of the body’s systems slowing down as it gets low (or no) levels of the thyroid hormone. Feeling weak means that you experience reduced strength in various muscle groups., Although a pallid complexion alone does not indicate that you have hypothyroidism, paleness combined with general dry skin is a symptom of hypothyroidism.If you have to repeatedly apply moisturizing creams, be aware that this can be a result of a bigger problem within your body.


You may also sweat less if you have hypothyroidism.
 Abnormal or rapid weight gain can indicate hypothyroidism because hormone fluctuation or a decrease of hormones—e.g., lack of thyroid hormone—causes unintentional or unexplained weight gain., You can start to experience pain in your joints and muscles as the body is affected by reduction in thyroid hormone. This pain often translates as stiffness and tenderness in the muscles and stiffness and swelling, or general pain, in your joints., Women suffering from hypothyroidism after delivering a baby can be misdiagnosed as having baby blues or postpartum depression because some of the symptoms are the same—moodiness and depression.A woman within 6 months of being pregnant or having a baby should see a doctor about hypothyroidism if they suspect they are developing post partum depression, or if fatigue and lethargy don’t disappear within a few months.


Hypothyroidism can also cause a "mental fogginess."

