 After you’ve become somewhat acquainted with the other person is a good time to get together and get to know each other better.


If you had a good first meeting or introduction, and the other person seems interesting in getting to know you better, take it to the next level and make plans to hang out.
 Once you’ve established some mutual interests, find out if the other person wants to share the experience. Whereas a date usually involves an intimate and romantic situation (i.e. candlelight dinner) just hanging out and doing fun stuff is the way for friends to go.


If you both like sports, see if they want your extra ticket, or come with you to a game.
Engage in recreational activities together on a weekend.
Get out for a hike, go kayaking or canoeing, or catch a movie together. Grab some lunch.
 Good friendships develop over time. Don’t expect to be best friends after hanging out once or twice.


Be casual, have fun, and let things develop as they will.
Just like with dating, becoming good friends can’t be forced or manipulated-when it’s there, it’s there, if not, not.
The same goes for the other person-if you feel like you’re being pushed into something you’re not ready for, back away. Don’t feel obligated to always meet the other person’s demands because you want a friend. If they’re truly your friend, they will want you to do what’s best for you.
 In Method 2 we discussed allowing yourself to open up in first meeting situations. When you are getting to know someone and spending more time with them, it becomes essential to let yourself open up.


Make a point of sharing personal and intimate stories. Telling life experiences to each other, especially if they involve less than comfortable subjects, is a useful strategy for connecting on a deep level. Remember, being good friends isn't about showing only the best parts of yourself and your life; it's the struggles that we've all experienced that connect us through our humanity.
 Simply being connected with someone online isn’t the same as having a truly good friend. Even if you have several hundred Facebook friends, having that special person that is there for you in person in times of need and times of joy is important. Be there for them as well. It’s important to view friendship as a two way street. Treat your new friend as you want them to treat you.
Don’t sweat the hassle of making plans. Arranging and deciding on times and places to meet can be logistically tricky, especially if your or the other person has a busy work schedule, or if there are more than two people involve.
Keep building on your relationship, and keep budding relationships. Once you’ve gotten together some, keep hanging out, keep getting in touch, and keep letting your relationship grow. If you have several people that you get together with occasionally, it’s likely that that special friendship will grow out of these. It takes some effort, but keep after it, and you’ll end up with a good, sturdy, long-lasting friendship. 