 You need a specific place where the meditation will take place, don’t you? If your group will fit, you can use a room or space in your home; if you have a big group, you may need to find an available space elsewhere, like a community center or local school (with permission).;
, Shift the sofas, armchairs, tables and other furniture to the corner so that there is enough space to move about and sit down without banging into other people. Place carpets on the floor so that people can sit down which is better to have full concentration and attention.
 Set up a covered table to display the idols and pictures where they can be seen, in the center of the room.
 The people or shaja yogis might feel uncomfortable, sweaty and hot during meditation. Provide fans at an angle where they won’t affect the diyas or lamps but still cool your attendees. If you have air conditioning available, switch it before they arrive to cool the room down.
 Connect your laptop or USB to your speaker (if you have one) and play it. If you don’t have speakers, you can borrow some or use the volume on you laptop or phone or iPod or tablet to play it. It'll help set the scene for your meditation.
 Prepare yourself to sing bhajans or slokas or songs sung to hail the lords in the heaven. Browse the internet and find god songs to sing. Having a daily practice helps a lot!

, If possible, you could sing a long with the help of drums, flutes and other instruments. Consider hiring a professional musician.
 Put in a CD which has the speech or amrutvaani of Shri Mataji, talking about some gods or chakras or pujas.
 Prepare some offerings for the gods; fruits, biscuits, and other healthy foods will do. If you are preparing the offering then don’t taste it. It’s a rule to not taste the food you are offering to Shri Mataji.
 After the meditation, you ought to serve the offerings to the people so you need plate, bowls, cups, spoons, etc. Make sure there is water too. If possible, get some fruit juice and not soft drinks.

