 The USB end of the cable--e.g., the larger end--should fit into your computer, while the small end fits into the charging port on your iPhone.


Although you can use any USB-to-iPhone charger, use the one that came with your iPhone for best results.
 Depending on your model of computer, you may have to confirm that you want to open iTunes automatically after attaching your phone.
 The bar at the top of your iTunes window should say "Syncing 's iPhone (Step of )". After your iPhone finishes syncing to iTunes, you can begin the restoration process.
 This icon resembles an iPhone and is located beneath the "Account" tab., While optional, doing this will ensure that your data is as up to date as possible when you restore from a backup point.


If you have automatic backups enabled, you don't need to back up again--your phone will have done so when you plugged it into your computer. Check the date of the latest backup under the "Backups" section to confirm that your phone's data backed up.
When backing up your phone, you can choose either iCloud, which backs up your phone to your iCloud account, or "This computer", which saves your phone's data on your current computer.
 This is in the iPhone-specific box at the top of the iTunes page.


If you have "Find My iPhone" enabled, iTunes will prompt you to disable it before restoring. Do this by tapping the Settings app to open Settings, scrolling down and tapping "iCloud", scrolling down and tapping "Find My iPhone", and sliding the switch next to "Find My iPhone" to the right to disable the Find My iPhone feature. You may need to enter your iCloud password to complete this process.
 Be sure to read the information on the pop-up before continuing so you know what to expect when you restore your iPhone.
 This means that you accept the terms and conditions of use for Apple's software.
 This can take several minutes, since iTunes is erasing and reinstalling iOS on your phone.
 Click the bar with your iPhone's name in it to do so. The date and location of your selected backup will display below the bar; pick the most recent one for best results.


Click the circle next to "Restore from this backup" to enable it if it isn't your default option.
 Your iTunes will begin restoring your phone; you should see a "Time remaining" value on the bottom of the restoration pop-up window.


The overall phone restoration time can take quite awhile--generally around 20 to 30 minutes--depending on how much data you have to restore.
 This will unlock your phone; note that you will not need to enter a passcode!You can place a new passcode on your phone at any time from the "Passcode" tab in the Settings app.
 This will restore your phone and its data. Please note that you will need to wait an additional amount of time to let your phone's apps update and resume their pre-erase status.

