 No matter what time you put your child to bed, if they aren’t calm and ready, they may have a restless night and a hard time going to sleep. Establishing a bedtime routine helps children wind down after a busy day and helps them know what is coming next, so that being put in bed isn’t a surprise. Try to make sure that your child’s bedtime routine happens at the same time each night (once you have determined what time your child needs to go to sleep) to create a strong sleep pattern.


An example of a bedtime routine may consist of taking a bath, putting on pajamas, snuggling up to read a book, singing a song, and then getting in bed.
 Throughout the entire bedtime routine, keep the lights low, turn off electronics, and use a soft, calming voice to create a serene environment. Have your child participate in calming activities, as described in the next step.
 Some parents think that rough housing with their child before bedtime will help to tire the child out. However, riling your child up may actually keep your child up longer. Instead, promote calm activities like:


A warm bath. Warm baths can have a soothing and calming effect. Designate enough time for your child’s bath to make it as relaxing as possible so that you do not rush your child.
Cozy pajamas. Choose pajamas made of cotton or another soft material that will be both comfortable and breathable.
A great bedtime story. Choose a story that focuses on a tale about bedtime or nighttime.
Goodnights and good night kisses. Make sure to give your child a goodnight kiss. However, set a limit on the number of kisses she gets, or else saying goodnight could drag on.
 Giving your child a small snack with protein and carbs, such as a piece of cheese or slice of bread, will help make him sleepy and keep his blood sugar at a consistent level for a good night’s sleep.
 If you are co-parenting, work with your partner to create a stable routine that both of you can stick to. If you have older children, work with them to create their own bedtime routine that will also help to get your little one into bed.
 If your toddler falls asleep on time and sleeps through the night, she will most likely wake up when you have planned for her to wake up (about 12 hours later). When she wakes up after she has slept through the night, greet her with praises for sleeping through the night.


Her reward can be an extra kiss or hug, or an extra couple of minutes doing her favorite activity during the day. She could also get a treat at breakfast.

