 The first step to navigating cultural differences is to be more aware of your own culture. Think about your own sense of cultural norms and your own personal belief system. If you're aware of your own culture, you will be able to compare and contrast your culture to other cultures in a calmer, more objective way.Discuss potential cultural differences with your spouse. Ask them for a heads up regarding your in-laws and how their culture differs from yours.
Read guides on your own culture written for those outside your culture. This will help you be more aware of any aspects of your culture that may seem off to your in-laws.
Think about how your culture could influence day-to-day interactions. For example, if you're American, you may consider it very rude to comment on someone else's weight. This is generally considered unacceptable in American culture, but other cultures may not consider such a comment rude. Keep this in mind when navigating day-to-day interactions with your in-laws if they, say, come from a culture where it's appropriate to be blunt about weight.;
, If you're getting ready to meet with your in-laws, keep expectations about body language in mind. Appropriate physical interactions are the foundation for a positive connection. If your in-laws come from a different culture than you, their expectations may be different from yours.Make sure you know if any normal physical interactions would be considered rude by the standards of your in-laws' culture. For example, maybe you typically greet family members with a hug. Your in-laws may come from a culture where hugging is seen as intrusive.
If you're unsure, you can ask. Ask your spouse about any types of body language that would be considered rude by your in-laws standards.
 Every culture has different expectations regarding food and drinks, so make sure you're aware of this when entertaining your in-laws. Some cultures, for example, do not eat certain types of meats or foods. Other cultures abstain completely from alcohol. Make sure you know any specific dietary restrictions before committing to a menu.When serving food, it's always a good idea to run the menu by your spouse first to make sure everything's okay.
 Differences in dress and attire can be a major source of conflict with in-laws. Your in-laws may come from a culture where a particular type of outfit is considered inappropriate or offensive. Make sure you're aware of the customs of your in-laws culture and try to pick something from your closet that would not offend them when getting together for family events.Remember, you don't have to completely change your style just to appease your in-laws. However, try not to wear anything you feel would really offend or shock them.
For example, if your in-laws come from a more conservative culture, go for something not too revealing (like jeans and a t-shirt) but wear colors and patterns you like.
 In some cultures, certain gifts can be seen as offensive. For example, in some Chinese cultures pointy objects, like knives or scissors, imply separation. There may also be customs regarding how and when gifts are presented in different cultures. For holidays and birthdays, make sure you follow any rules regarding gift giving carefully.You can always ask your spouse if a gift is appropriate if you're unsure.
 If a conflict arises, deciding whether or not to get involved is always a difficult decision. In general, it's a good idea to stay out of conflicts that do not involve you. For example, if your spouse is arguing with their parents, try to remain supportive but neutral.In some cases, a conflict may involve you. Unfortunately, you may not always get along with your in-laws. For example, your spouse may be arguing with their parents because of an issue they have with you.
In this case, get involved with the goal of smoothing things over and finding common ground.
 When a conflict arises due to cultural differences, you probably bring a variety of assumptions into the situation. Before you begin discussing the issue, pause and consider your own assumptions and how they affect the situation.Remember, there are multiple interpretations for every situation. Keep this in mind before getting angry or frustrated with your in-laws. Try to remember that your assumptions about behavior may be rooted in your own cultural biases.
For example, you're mad because your father-in-law did not make eye contact with you during a discussion. While you may feel he was being disrespectful or rude, eye contact may not be as big of an indicator of respect in his culture.
 Many people are hesitant to ask questions about another person's culture. However, asking questions can actually be helpful when you're attempting to understand someone else's perspective. Just make sure you do so respectfully and with the goal of smoothing over conflict and fostering a more positive family atmosphere.For example, say something like, "In your culture, how do you typically handle conflict?" or "How do you prefer to communicate?"

, Some disputes are easily smoothed over. If you, say, served the wrong thing for dinner, this can be a quick fix. However, more serious disputes require continued conversation over the long term. If something is a continued source of conflict, share your feelings with your in-laws and calmly explain your expectations.Things like children, career, and money are often a source of conflict between different cultures. If your in-laws' views differ than yours in these areas, work on continually reminding them such things are highly personal and you and your spouse need to make your own decisions in these areas.
For example, say your in-laws expect you to have children very soon. Remind them that having a child is a personal choice and, while you understand things are different in their culture, you and your spouse are not ready yet.
 Always be willing to listen during conflicts. Even if you feel frustrated due to your in-laws' cultural expectations, stay calm and hear their side.Remember, compromise is important. Culture is a sensitive issue. Even if you radically agree with your in-laws' perspective on the issue, it's better to let them express their perspective than impose your own culture on them.
 Keep the conversation flowing by talking to your in-laws about yourself and your values. Let your in-laws learn about you so they understand how you operate and why you make the decisions you make. This will help foster a richer cultural understanding between all of you.For example, say you work on a computer a lot for work or school. Your in-laws are older and come from an area where people do not use technology that much. They worry you spend too much time online.
Teach your in-laws about your work. Show them what you do on the computer and explain your industry to them. This will help them see you as part of a larger community rather than isolated.
 Your spouse's relationship with their parents is important and should be respected. Even if you feel frustrated, respect your spouse's right to have a relationship with their in-laws. Allow your spouse to have the one-on-one time with their parents that they need and never pressure your spouse to take your side in a dispute., In some cases, you will need your spouse's support. Decisions such as whether or not you should work and when to have children are highly personal. You and your spouse should be on the same page, and your spouse should back you up when conflict arises.You and your spouse have likely already talked over major decisions. For example, you likely have some plan about whether to have children. In-laws from different cultures may have differing beliefs in these areas.
Talk to your spouse about how to address the issue together. The two of you should have an idea of what to say to your in-laws if they question your decisions on major life issues.
For example, you could both agree to say something like, "No matter how much you want grandchildren, we're are going to be the parents. We've decided to wait for now, and this is the right decision for us."

, If your marriage is new, it may take your in-laws a while to get used to things, especially if you come from a very different cultural background. Have patience and allow your in-laws to adjust to your presence in their family. With time, cultural differences will matter less as you all get to know one another as individuals., There are certain aspects of your culture that may always be a point of conflict with your in-laws. Certain differences may never be fully accepted. For example, if your in-laws are very religious and you are atheist or agnostic, this may always be a point of conflict. Work on accepting these differences and not letting them affect your marriage.Remember, your in-laws are people. They have their own idea of how the world works. If there are things about you they do not completely accept, it is not personal. Everyone is conditioned to see normal in different ways.
You in-laws' opinions are not fact. For example, if your in-laws keep insisting you really should raise your children in a church, you do not have to take this advice. While it may always be a source of tension, take a deep breath and remind yourself their opinion need not dictate your life and your spouse's life.
Separate your relationship with your spouse from your relationship with your in-laws. Remember, you married your spouse and not their parents. Focus on making your marriage happy if there are certain things you in-laws do not accept about you.

