 Before you can change your behavior, try to understand the reason that you are missing the bus. Do you get out of bed late? Do you take too long to get ready in the morning? Do you lose track of time when you are getting dressed? Do you not give yourself enough time to walk to the bus stop?


The solution to your problem depends on the reason that you are missing the bus.
For example, if you always oversleep and have a hard time getting out of bed, you may need to go to bed earlier.
If you think your issue is your morning routine, time yourself and see how long it takes to get up, get dressed, eat breakfast, and make it out of the door. You can then make adjustments to your schedule based on this.
If you lose track of time, have clocks in different places to keep yourself on track. You may have a clock in your room, in the bathroom, in the kitchen, and wear a watch.;
, Unless your bus picks you up from your home, you need to figure out how long it takes you to get to your stop. Time yourself as you walk and/or ride to the bus stop.Once you know how long it takes to get to your bus stop, you will know what time you need to leave your house to catch the bus.
If you both walk and get a ride to your bus stop, you should time yourself doing both. For example, it may take 10 minutes to walk to your bus stop, but take 3 minutes if your parent drops you off at your stop.
 Arrive to your bus stop at least 5 minutes early. If you arrive at your stop at the exact scheduled pick up time, you are more likely to miss your bus. Your bus driver is on a schedule and has other kids to pick up.The bus cannot wait for you if you are late.


If your bus is scheduled to pick you up at 8:00 am, be at the bus stop by 7:55 am.
Do not forget to factor in the time it takes to get to your bus stop. For example, if it takes 10 minutes to get to your bus stop from your house, leave by 7:45 am to catch the bus on time.
If it is raining or snowing, give yourself some extra time to get to the stop.
 Try not to get distracted as you travel to catch your bus or wait for the bus. If you walk to your bus stop, do not make any extra stops on the way. If you plan to make extra stops during your walk, leave your house at an earlier time.


If you walk with your friends, it can be easy to get distracted, goof around, or walk slower than usual.
Also, do not try out any new routes to your bus stop. You cannot predict how long it will take you to get to your bus stop. If you want to try out a new shortcut, do it over the weekend instead.
 If you miss the bus, you need to have a plan in place to get to school on time. Maybe your parents, neighbor, or another classmate's parent can give you a ride to school. Talk with your parents about what to do if you miss the bus. You do not want to panic if you miss the bus.


Do not rely on you backup plan. You still need to do everything you can to not miss the bus.
If you miss your stop, some schools may allow you to get on at a later stop.You should contact your school to see if this is a possibility. Do not assume that it is alright for you to do this.

