 It is important to maintain an even tone and attitude when addressing an errant child.Instead of screaming, "Get off the table now, or you're in big trouble!" in a loud voice and angry tone, calmly say "Please get off the table — you could fall and hurt yourself and I don't want that to happen."


If the child is being rude to you, use the same strategy. Tell them calmly to stop, and explain why you disapprove. For example, "Don't swear, it's not a nice way of talking and you sound so much nicer when you talk politely." Let them know this is their only warning. This is often enough to deter bad behavior.
If the child continues to be disobedient, tell them their punishment and mete it out. Make sure they understand the connection between their behavior and the punishment. Maintain a calm demeanor throughout.
 Never make idle threats or you will lose all credibility with your child. Think before you threaten your child with a certain consequence. Adhere to your stated intention immediately to maximize the connection between the child’s behavior and the punishment meted out.If you show leniency on one occasion, your child may take it as an indication that the rule is not to be taken seriously.


After the child has finished their punishment, hug them or kiss them to show them you aren't mad anymore, and explain again why you don't want them to do that. Get them to repeat why you disapprove — it will make them more likely to remember. After that, say no more about the incident and move on.
 Sometimes a time-out is necessary, while other times, more severe forms of punishment (such as grounding or the elimination of certain privileges) are required. Whatever form the punishment takes, make sure it is fair.Make the punishment is age appropriate. Younger children have a much shorter attention span and will forget what they are being punished for after only a couple of minutes, so grounding them for a week is pointless; they will not understand the concept. Start with one minute in time out for each year of age and work up from there.
 Don’t punish a certain behavior one day and ignore it the next. This will confuse the child and make them unsure what constitutes acceptable behavior. Be consistent in the type of punishment, too. Apply the same punishment for the same misbehavior, every time.Consistency can be problematic when two parents or caregivers see the same behavior in different ways. For instance, a child who runs around in the backyard may be seen as playing harmlessly by one parent, but the other may worry that the child might trip or hurt themselves while running, and therefore punishes for running. Talk with your partner, caregiver, or babysitter about what you consider reasonable behavior and what actions they should in take in the event of transgression.
If you want to change the rules regarding what your child is allowed to do, let them know what your revised expectations are, as well as the punishment they can expect if they fail to comply.
 Some children are compliant, and will respond to the mere threat of punishment. Others are more rebellious and only become more resistant to your directives when punished.Think about your child’s temperament and personality to decide if punishment is a good way to instill discipline.

