 For most people, there are not many occasions when you can get away with wearing a sequined dress. On New Year's Eve, however, sequins are not only welcome, but classic.
 If a sequined dress is too much sparkle for your style, opt for a sequined skirt instead. Match the skirt with a simple fitted tank top or blouse. A solid black top offers an especially nice contrast with your shimmery skirt.
 If you would prefer to take the attention off your legs, draw it higher by wearing a fitted sequined top. Match it with a subdued bottom, like a black pencil skirt or dress trousers.
 Velvet is a luxurious material and makes an excellent alternative to sequins for dinner parties and other classy festivities. Make the most of this look by choosing an alluring hue, like turquoise, rather than a drab black.
 When all else fails, your little black dress can come to your rescue. It makes the perfect basic background for you to dress up with glitzy jewelry and sparkly shoes.
 If you plan on attending a casual party or ringing in the New Year with a small group of close friends, keep things simple by wearing a metallic jean. Metallic jeans have a tint of gold or silver overlaying the denim, making them a little dressier than your everyday jeans.
 If you are keeping things casual this New Year’s Eve, a fitted tank top or blouse with a simple yet festive pattern might be all you need. Prints themed to the occasion include stars and fireworks. Match it with a metallic jean if you want to add a little shimmer.
 Diamonds and similarly sparkly stones add class and glitz to your ensemble. A little can go a long way. Try a pair of simple diamond posts or a pendant with a diamond charm.
 Chunky colored gemstones can add a little bit of festive flair to your outfit. Look for a thick bangle bracelet covered in gems or a long beaded necklace.
 You can get away with some large, flashy jewelry for the occasion, but there is still such a thing as "too much of a good thing." Instead of wearing several large pieces of jewelry, find one piece that can take center stage—like extravagant chandelier earrings or an ornate necklace—and keep the rest of you jewelry, if you wear any, simple and subdued.
 The clutch is the classic party purse. Look for one with a solid gold or silver shimmer, or spice things up with one covered in sequins or glitter.

