 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is Spider-Man with the classic Spider-Man on the logo. Tap on it to launch it.;
, The game shop contains the consumables and unlockables that you can buy for your games. Tap the “Menu” button on the top right corner to bring out the game menu then tap the “Shop” button with the shopping cart picture to go to the Shop.
 The first section of the Shop is “Consumables.” Consumables are game helpers that will give you some bonuses when used. Tap on the corresponding green buttons indicating the prices in ISO-8 to buy them. There are four consumables you can buy:



Spidey Energy Refill—This refills your Spidey energy or lives. When used, it will refill your lives to the maximum (5). This costs 3 ISO-8.

Sensory Overload—This provides a +25% score multiplier. When used, it will increase your score multiplier by 25%! This costs 7 ISO-8.

Formula Fanatic—This multiplies the vials you collect after defeating an enemy by 3. When used, you will get three times more vials from attacks. This costs 3 ISO-8.

Crushing Combos—This multiplies your combos by 2 for 3 minutes and your combo counter lasts 3 seconds more. When used, you will get more (and higher scores) from your combos. This costs 5 ISO-8.
 The second section of the Shop is “Power-ups.” Power-ups themselves cannot be bought. They appear randomly in the games. When collected, they provide certain powers that last for a few seconds. What you can buy from the Shop are additional time for using these power-ups when collected.


For example, instead of lasting for just 10 seconds, you can extend a certain power-up by 5 more seconds. The first four increments are bought with Vials. Starting from the fifth increment, ISO-8 is required. Tap on the corresponding green buttons indicating the prices in ISO-8 to buy them.
There are four power-ups you can buy.


Web Hammer—When collected, your Spider-Man clobbers your enemies and all other mechanical obstacles with ease. You just have to pass them to hit them. No need to swipe up or down to do an attack. The fifth increment costs 28 ISO-8, making the Web Hammer last 18 seconds.

Web Magnet—When collected, your Spider-Man brings all Vials in sight directly to it. No need to pass them to collect them. The fifth increment costs 28 ISO-8, making the Web Magnet last 18 seconds.

Stats Multiplier—When collected, your Spider-Man gets to double all Vials collected and all combos earned. The fifth increment costs 28 ISO-8, making the Stats Multiplier last 18 seconds.

Web Shield—When collected, your Spider-Man gets protected from a damage. It’s like a free life within the game. The fifth increment costs 28 ISO-8, making the Web Shield last 30 seconds.
 The third section of the Shop is “Unlockables.” Unlockables are permanent bonuses or abilities for all the Spider-men characters in your roster. Tap on the corresponding green buttons indicating the prices in ISO-8 to buy them. There are two unlockables you can buy:



Vial Bonus—This adds 15% more Vials to your Vial count after every run. This costs 75 ISO-8.

Extra Experience—This adds 15% more XP to all your Spider-men used during runs. This costs 75 ISO-8.

