 Not every dog knows how to swim. Many owners assume that their dogs know how to swim so they don’t worry about them around pools. Dogs may be inexperienced and not know how to swim. They also may panic and not swim correctly. Both of these things can lead to drowning.To help your dog learn how to swim, get them familiar with water by getting in the water with them. You can hold up your dog’s hind section to help them learn how to start using their back legs.
You may also choose to get your dog professional swimming lessons from a trainer.;
, Many pets drown in pools because they fall in and don’t know how to get back out. You should help your dog learn where the steps are so they can climb out if they need to.You may want to put something near the steps, like a plant or a light, so your dog can easily find the steps and know where they need to be.
You may consider putting a ramp or pet stairs into your pool.
 One way to keep your dog safe from the pool when you are not around is to put a fence around the pool. The fence can keep your dog out of the pool, along with other neighborhood pets or wild animals who venture into your yard.The fence should surround the pool and be secure enough that your dog won’t be able to jump over it, dig under it, or break through it.
 When putting a cover on your pool, use a safety cover instead of a floating cover. Though the pool may be covered, the dog may accidentally fall into it when chasing something. They also may think that the cover is hard enough for them to walk on.If a dog steps on a floating cover, they could be unable to find their way out of the cover. They may also fall under the cover, which would trap them and lead to drowning.
 Some dogs are at a higher risk of falling in the pool and drowning than others. This includes dogs that are obese, older, or small. Toys breeds may be too small to use the steps, so they may need a special ramps to help them get out of the pool.Dogs that are blind may not be able to see the edge of the pool, so they may accidentally fall in, especially at night. You should make sure your protect your dog from the pool if they are blind.

