 Before you start a plan to gain weight while depressed, you need to verify that depression is the primary cause of weight loss and not just a symptom. Certain medical conditions like cancer or hyperthyroidism can also cause weight loss, so it is important for you to be evaluated by a doctor. Your doctor will ask questions about your symptoms, review your medical history and family history, and perform a physical examination.


If your doctor can find no other possible causes for weight loss, then he or she will clarify your diagnosis of depression. Signs of depression include feeling hopeless, losing interest in once pleasurable activities, experiencing changes in sleep and appetite, and having a lack of energy.At this point, your doctor will talk to you about treatment options and/or refer you to a psychologist or mental health therapist.
 Most people are treated with a combination of psychotherapy and medications. Psychotherapy, or talk therapy, is directed towards helping you develop skillsets for coping with life’s problems. By far, research shows that the most effective form of psychotherapy for depression is cognitive behavioral therapy, which focuses on bringing awareness to negative and unhelpful thought patterns and building healthier, more realistic ways of viewing life and the world.Your doctor may refer you to a therapist, but keep in mind that you can choose someone else if the initial choice does not suit you well. Some people work better with certain types of therapist, so don’t be afraid to try out a few until you feel comfortable.
 Depending on the severity of your depressive symptoms, your doctor or psychiatrist may prescribe you medications. Although medications help you manage the symptoms of depression, they are not a long-term solution. You should always use medications in conjunction with other treatments like therapy and lifestyle changes for lasting relief from depression.


Drugs that treat depression help regulate the amount of chemicals in the brain called neurotransmitters. Scientists believe these chemicals impact the emotions and mood. The major types of antidepressants that you can talk with your doctor about include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs).Weight gain can be a side effect of taking antidepressant medications. Talk to your doctor so that you can develop a plan that allows you to gain weight in a healthy way through diet and exercise while taking these medications., It can be frustrating to wait for therapy and medications to do their jobs, but you must. Treatment for depression takes time.Continue your treatment regimen as suggested by your doctors and eventually you will start to see positive changes. If not, you can always try new medications or different therapeutic approaches. Don’t give up.

