 You can reach the island by going to the docks in your village, which are found on the south beach. When you get there, talk to Kapp’n. He will take you to the island in exchange for 1,000 bells.;
, There are a number of tours that you can participate in while on the island. These tours are just mini-games. You can choose any of the tours, except for ones that require you to use tools.


Take note that some tours are better than the others. For example, the Easy Gardening Tour involves a very high number of flowers present on the map, whereas the Hide and Seek Tour will have fewer flowers present on the map.
Talk to the frog behind the counter in the upper-left area of the room that you arrive in when you first get to the island. She will ask you if you want to go on a tour or return home. This is one potential way to take a tour.
 Once you are on the tour, you can ignore the objective of the mini-game, and instead run around and pick flowers until your inventory is full. This trick works for fruit as well.


Once your inventory is full, you can go ahead and complete the objective of the tour if you have time. Otherwise, you can just go talk to Tortimer, who remains in the center of the map, and tell him that you’re done. This will take you back to the hut on the island.
 Remember that items in your inventory will not travel back to town with you; you need to put them in the basket.


Interact with the basket by standing next to it, and pressing A. Next, you would need to drag and drop all of the flowers from your inventory into the basket.
 The basket has a lot more space in it than your character’s inventory does, so you can repeat Steps 2 to 4 until the basket is full.
 Once your basket is entirely filled with flowers, you can return home knowing that you’ve done all you can for this island trip. Talk to the frog behind the counter that has been sending you on tours, and this time just tell her you want to go home.
 When you arrive back at the docks in your village, you can interact with the basket there in the same way as you’ve done before, and you will see all of the flowers that you collected.
 You are now free to use the flowers however you wish! Simply take them out of the basket, drag them back into your inventory, and you’ll be able to sell them, plant them, gift them, and what have you.


You can go to the island an unlimited number of times in a day, so if you still want more flowers, feel free to go back and just keep repeating these steps. You’ll have an impressive flower garden before you know it!

