 They know the food that they can handle and the food that gives them the most trouble. They also know which restaurants and cafes have accessible washrooms that meet their needs. Given this experience, you should let them choose the restaurant for your meeting, date, or event.Communicate your openness to their decisions by saying:


"Why don't you choose the restaurant tonight"
"Is there a cafe that works well for you?
Where do you think we should eat tonight?"

, If they need to cancel an event or change a dinner reservation, try to be open to the change. People with IBS experience symptoms that cannot be ignored and often result in scheduling changes. It is best to incorporate some flexibility into your schedule in order to accommodate their unique needs.If they have to change a scheduled event, you might try saying:


"No problem. We can totally do this another day."
"That's fine, I totally understand your situation. Why don't you get in touch later about a day that works better for you."

, If you are driving with them, remember that you may need to stop in random places to find a bathroom. If you are planning ahead, try to think of routes with accessible washrooms. In this manner, you can offer tips on bathroom locations when the time arises during your trip.Download a mobile application that helps you find bathrooms. For example, you might try using Toilet Finder, Where to Wee, or Sit or Squat. You can download apps for both the iphone and android devices.If you are planning a trip to a different city, ask your travel agent if they have any information or maps of publicly available washrooms and restaurants with facilities.
 If you are planning a vacation with someone who has IBS, remember to plan appropriately. You should travel to somewhere that they anticipate enjoying and take appropriate precautions. Check for travel advisories on government websites, make sure there are adequate washroom and medical facilities, and avoid trying to pack too many events into each day of your trip.You can check for travel advisories at the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention Website.