 Your dog may be trying to escape from something that is scaring him. This will usually be in response to something noisy, like a loud car or construction. It may also be something visual, like a bright light or a person walking by the yard. If you identify the thing responsible for your dog's fear, and it is possible to do so, remove it.
Try to limit exposure to the event that causes a fear based escape. For instance, bring your dog inside if a loud bell or siren scares him.
Watch your dog to see where he likes to hide when scared. Try to create a similar “safe space” for him in the yard and in the house.
Try desensitizing your dog to the fear stimulus. Starting small and gradually increasing exposure to the stimulus over time can result in the loss of fear to that stimulus. Talk with your veterinarian or local dog trainer to learn more.;
, At around six months old, dogs will begin to look for mates. This drive can be quite powerful. Male dogs are more likely to try to escape if they smell a bitch in heat. Unfortunately for the owner of the male dog, they are able to detect the pheromones (chemical messengers) over a distance of mile. Female dogs are less likely to wander due to hormonal reasons. Female dogs come into heat twice a year, and if you own a female dog, your main concern is other dogs getting in, rather than her out! The best way to prevent this is to have your dog spayed or neutered.
Spaying your dog will prevent her from becoming pregnant if she escapes.
 Your dog may simply miss you. Separation anxiety is caused when you leave your dog's presence and his attachment to you causes them anxiety. He may try to escape in an effort to follow you.If your dog usually escapes right after you leave, there is a good chance separation anxiety is to blame.
Act calmly when coming home or leaving. By showing your dog that your departure and arrival are not something to be excited about, he should learn to relax during these times.
Think about giving your dog an over-the-counter medication, or asking your vet for a prescription, that will reduce anxiety. Even if you use an over-the-counter medication, consult with your veterinarian before use and follow all directions., Your dog may simply be bored, he might be wandering in search of something exciting and new to do. By keeping your yard interesting and engaging, you will make escape less appealing to your dog.


Make sure there are plenty of toys in the yard.
Play with your dog in the yard. Besides using up energy, your dog will associate the yard with activity and play.
Leave food and water out if the dog is outdoors for extended periods of time.

