 Talk to your partner about veganism in the family you will raise together. If they are already vegan, they will be very receptive! If they are not vegan, the discussion may take some time and be ongoing.;
, After you have a child (or children), eat plenty of wholefoods such as vegetables, fruits, grains, nuts and seeds, beans, lentils, and soy products, and supplement with plant-based oils and B-12 as necessary. (Remember that human breastmilk is vegan and essential to a growing infant during the first 1 or 2 years at least.) They will grow to love these healthy dishes and will love their healthy vegan lifestyle later on. Once your child(ren) are around 5 or 6, talk to them more about why you are only eating plant-based foods. Tell them that you are doing good for Earth's animals, because, before consumption, they are killed in slaughterhouses, and the meat products and byproducts are packed up and put in trucks, and the drivers take them to the grocery store, where they will be bought, cooked, and eaten. Discuss animal cruelty briefly, and how animals feel pain just like we do, and that is why you are a vegan family.
 Just a few healthy and earth-friendly choices are: lettuce, tomatoes, potatoes, apples, watermelon, nuts, cabbage, eggplant, blueberries, pears, coconuts, bananas, potatoes, jalapeño peppers, habenero peppers, snow peas, pea pods, and packaged salads. Many more options are available at you local grocery store! All of these benefit your health. Remember children need more fat in their diet, so include plenty of coconuts, avocado, tofu, nuts and seeds. Refer to guides written about raising vegan children written by vegan dieticians for the best, more informed advice.
 Veganism is lifestyle that includes foods and other products - such as clothing and cosmetics - that are from plants or have been made from plant-based or synthetic materials. The foods you eat are good for you because you aren't eating a lot of saturated fats, cholesterol, hormones, contaminants like antibiotics in animal feed, and refined oils. Some drinks have animal products, like dairy milk from cows and goats. You cannot drink animal milk or cheese on your vegan diet, but there are plenty of similar products available made from soy, nuts, seeds, and other plants. You can find these online stores or in organic specialty stores and some major chain stores.
 Some of these are broccoli, asparagus, artichoke, spinach, Brussels sprouts, garlic, celery, and onions. Experiment with different ways of preparation to make these more palatable. Invest in a few vegan cookbooks specializing in recipes for children or look them up online. There are quite a lot of vegan parenting blogs that include recipes.
 You can then help your children live to be healthy! Congratulations!

