 A good choice is to find balls that are not too light and not too big (or too small like marbles). If you are just starting to juggle, it is best to use small balls filled with sand. They should fit snugly in the palm of your hand.


Try using beanbags or purpose-made juggling balls while first learning to juggle. They don't bounce or roll away when dropped, so you spend your time and energy juggling, not chasing dropped balls.
You can make your own practice juggling balls from tennis balls or balloons.;
, When learning to juggle, you will drop the balls and it's best that you're not anywhere near fragile objects and that you have plenty of space around you. Outdoors is ideal.


Stand comfortably with your feet about shoulder width apart. If you can, stand next to a surface (like a table or bed), so you don't have to constantly bend down.
 Throw one ball from one hand to the other hand at head height, in an arc. Get used to the feel and weight of the ball. Notice that the pattern is an arc, and not a circle as you may have thought.









A common mistake made by beginners is to throw the ball high into the air. It's important to ensure that the ball doesn't go any higher than head or eye height. Do not throw too low either, since that will force you to juggle fast, and fast isn't necessary for three balls.
As you get better at throwing the single ball, start trying to move your arms in a gentle circular movement, scooping inward. This is much closer to the final movement that you will use when juggling all three balls. You are not trying to throw in a circle though, just moving your hands this way.
 Put a ball in each hand. Throw the first ball to your left hand at head height.









Before ball 1 reaches the left hand, release ball 2 towards your right hand and catch. Keep your hand movements open (meaning, don't close your hands over the ball after catching).
 The only difference between this movement and juggling three balls is doing it once more -- so you're almost there.









Keep practicing this movement. Once you get this right, the remaining steps will be much easier. Review wikiHow's article on juggling two balls for added help.

