 The throwing style with the most power and potential for accuracy is an overhand toss, used by expert card throwers the world around. One of the earliest public practitioners was a stage magician named Howard Thurston, who used an overhand toss to put power and accuracy into his tosses, wowing audiences. Finding a grip that works for you and feels comfortable is the most important part of learning to throw accurately.Most grip variations are named after famous card throwers:


The Thurston grip involved pinching the short side of the card between your index and middle finger, so the bulk of the card faces in toward your palm. All the other fingers should be up and out of the way.
The Hermann grip, named after another magician, involves pinching the card between your thumb and your middle finger in the center of the card about a third of the way down, letting the index finger wrap all the way to the opposite edge at the corner to help control the spin. The bulk of the card should be facing your palm.;
, The basic toss with the most accuracy happens by bending the card up next to the side of your head and release it with a flick of your wrist. To do this and get the right kind of spin on the card, you need to turn your palm up and grip the card using the grip style of your choice.
 Curve your wrist in so the card tucks into your wrist, and bend your elbow, drawing your hand up next to your head to get your arm ready for the throw. Your pinkie finger should be just about even with your ear when your arm is cocked and ready.


To learn the appropriate motion and practice, just curve your wrist up without putting your whole arm into it and try tossing the card with enough spin. When you've gotten used to it practicing the toss, bring the card up beside your head to put more power into your tosses.
 In one fast, smooth motion, swing your arm forward from your shoulder and step into throw like throwing a baseball to get the most power and accuracy out of the card. At the end of that motion, unroll your wrist, spreading your middle and ring finger slightly to release the card., Practice the motion, try to get it as smooth as possible, getting a clean release of the card. Keeping the motion as smooth as possible is the key to getting the card to spin and cut through the air, rather than floating on it and moving everywhere with the breeze.


When you practice this motion, pay particular attention to how you're unrolling your wrist into a smooth line with the rest of your arm as you toss the card. Like many things, it's all in the wrist, but the power comes from your elbow.

