 This is an effective way to protect yourself from being offended during the battle. Even veteran battle rappers sometimes feel the sting of a well-spoken burn. Come up with a separate identity and practice rapping with this persona. Stay true to this persona on stage.


The persona you adopt will depend on your personality and preferences. You might take on the character of a lighthearted jokester, a sarcastic trash-talker, a gangster from the streets, or others., A pre-thought line can save you if your mind blanks when freestyling. These lines can also buy you time while you think of the right response to something an opponent has said. Prepare more material than necessary.


If you get called out after a strong showing, you may end up needing more material than you planned.At minimum, try to have at least five rounds of lines thought up before battles. A round is generally 16 bars. For most songs, this equals 16 beats., Unless the rules state otherwise, your opponent can use anything against you in a rap battle. This includes your appearance, sense of style, or the subjects you rap about. Identify likely areas that will be used against you and think up counters to these.For example, if you have a large nose, you might deflect this if used against you saying, “He mocks my nose, but ya don’t need a trunk / To smell his crap rhymes and know they’re junk.”
In a rap battle, you should expect your opponent to diss you at some point. Try not to take these too seriously. Focus on your flow, out-spit your opponent, and win the battle.
 Using the same rhyme structure during a rap battle will make your performance repetitive and less interesting. Try out different rhyming structure to see what works best for you.


Rhyme structure is often represented using letters for each line. Same letter lines rhyme, as in the following common rhyme patterns:

A Boy Named Sue rhyme scheme: AABCCB
Ballade rhyme scheme: ABABBCBC
Enclosed rhyme scheme: ABBA
"Fire and Ice" rhyme scheme: ABAABCBCB, Your lines don’t always have to rhyme. Instead, try creating lines with words that have the same starting sound. This technique is called alliteration. Alliterative lines can also rhyme, as in the following example:"Fans filter the fighters fit for / First place by favorite phrases / I’ll flood your flow like forty days and nights of folklore / Forget fighting, you’ll finish fame-less."

, Practice coming up with new and interesting raps on the spot. Rap along to ambient music throughout the day to sharpen your skills. Write down catchy lines you come up with so you don’t forget them.


Be persistent with your freestyle practice. It may take some time before you find your flow and can smoothly spit without stopping.
Natural freestyling talent is rare. Don’t feel bad if you stutter or come up with nonsense lines when practicing. Once you can speak fluidly, without pausing, you can work on improving content., The more you practice battle rapping, the more your skills will improve. Local rap battle leagues can be found in many cities. Search for these online with a keyword search for something like “Rap battle leagues near me.” Sign up for battles and perform.


If there aren’t any rap battle leagues nearby, join an online rap battle league. Some online leagues may require a microphone.
Start your own rap battle league with friends and local rappers. Increase your popularity as a battler by posting these videos on social media, like Facebook and YouTube.