 If you are a merchant, an identity thief may visit your business and try to make a purchase with a stolen identity. If you notice any of the following, you should be suspicious that the customer is trying to commit fraud:


The customer does not have the credit or debit card, but has the numbers written down or memorized;
The transaction amount is unusually large and expensive; or
The customer tries to rush you or distract you., Ask the customer for some ID, so that you can match the name on the credit card to the name and photograph on the ID. Note, however, that identity thieves can falsify IDs as well as credit cards. Check the ID carefully to assure yourself that it is not a forgery.
 Thieves can make fake credit or debit cards by printing new ones or altering old ones. Thieves often overlook or have difficulty replicating the following details:


Embossed letters and numbers should be symmetrical and evenly-spaced;
American Express card numbers always start with 3. Visa uses 4, MasterCard is 5, and Discover is 6;
The magnetic strip should not appear intentionally damaged. Thieves damage the strip if the magnetic data does not match the numbers printed on the card;
Any holographic sticker should have a 3D effect;
The signature strip should not appear painted over or defaced;
Credit cards have logos on the front that are only visible under ultraviolet light; and
Most cards have a tiny verification number that match the first or last four numbers of the account., If you are suspicious that the customer is an identity thief, you can make a Code 10 authorization call, which allows you to verify the customer's identity without alerting the customer of your suspicions. To make a Code 10 call, do the following:


Hold onto the card.
Call your processor's voice authorization center and request a Code 10 authorization.
Answer the operator's questions. The questions will require "yes" or "no" answers to avoid alerting the customer.
Follow the operator's instructions for how to handle the situation.