 Nowadays, advancements in home brewing have made it possible for small brewing companies to pop up locally. Many of these small brewing companies do not use many or any chemical additives, partially to appeal to the organic niche, but also to cut down on costs. Look in a phone book or local directory for nearby brewing companies. Contact any companies you do find and inquire about whether they have any organic brews.


You can also try looking at a local farmer’s market. Beer is a product made from natural ingredients, after all, and many farmer’s markets sell food and drink products made from locally grown crops as well as the crops themselves. These markets are a good place to look for organic goods to begin with, since many small farmers run organic farms.;
, Not every product in a natural foods store is organic, but many are and many others at least contain organic components. Since these stores are naturally small, the selection of beer or other alcoholic beverages there might be limited. If the store owner did not get a state permit to sell alcohol, it may not even carry any. Many natural food stores do have organic beer, though, and the selection will likely be large enough to give you a basic selection.
 Recent changes in U.S. law have led to an increase in organic breweries and brews.Moreover, the interest in organic food and drink only seems to be increasing as time goes on. As a result, it will be much easier to find organic beer at your local supermarket now than it would have been five years ago. The selection of organic beers will probably be notably less than the selection of non-organic beers, but you should at least be able to find something.
 A restaurant that has a wide selection of beer will likely include one or two organic brands. While you will not be able to buy them by the caseload at a restaurant, trying an organic brew or two at a restaurant is a good way to figure out what you like before you invest in a large amount of it.
 Every so often, an organization that promotes organic food, like the Organic Trade Association, will hold an expo, trade show, or conference to promote the organic lifestyle and awareness of organic brands. These events often have an area in which producers of organic goods can sell their products to interested buyers. These goods can include organic beer.
 As with any other hard-to-find or specialty product, the Internet is the organic beer buyer’s best friend. You can buy directly from organic breweries or through organic grocer websites. One notable benefit of buying online is that you can comparison shop much easier, and you can also look up reviews to determine what the flavor and quality of the beer is like as well as the reputation of the company.

