 This is the easiest and one of the most important methods for treating blackheads. Regular washing helps remove impurities and keep your skin and pores clean.Wash your face with water and a mild face cleanser two times a day. You should also wash your face any time you’ve sweated a lot, such as after exercise.
Use your fingertips to gently massage the cleanser into your skin in small circular motions. Never scrub or scrape at your skin or use “exfoliating” washes or products. These can actually make blackheads worse.Don’t forget to moisturize with a skin-type appropriate cream.;
, This medication is the most commonly used for acne, including blackheads. You can find it in a range of skincare products, including cleansers, creams, gels, and lotions.Benzoyl peroxide works by killing the bacteria on your skin that can cause inflammation and pimples, P. acnes. It may also reduce your skin’s natural oil production, which can help keep pores from getting clogged.Children under 12 and women who are pregnant, breastfeeding, or trying to become pregnant should talk to a doctor before using products that contain benzoyl peroxide., Salicylic acid helps break down the oils in the pores and may keep skin cells from clogging pores, resulting in smoother and clearer skin. When used consistently, it can even prevent future blackheads from forming.Use a salicylic acid face cleanser to wash your face and/or apply salicylic acid cream to your face.You should not use any other skin products except mild cleansers when using salicylic acid without first consulting your doctor. Do not combine it with other treatments such as benzoyl peroxide unless specifically prescribed.Caution: Keep this medicine away from the eyes & mouth and outside your nose. If the medicine does come in contact with those areas, immediately flush with water for 15 minutes.Consult with your doctor before using salicylic acid if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or trying to become pregnant. If you have ever had diabetes, kidney or liver disease., Retinoids are derivatives of vitamin A, and in the US they are usually available by prescription to treat acne. Retinoid creams help unclog existing blackheads and improve the way skin grows and sheds dead skin cells. Regular use of retinoid creams causes the outer skin layer to even out and get thicker, while the outer dead layer of keratin material sheds more efficiently. Sometimes there is noticeable peeling, but after regular use of three to seven times weekly for four to six weeks, the side effects lessen and the skin appears clearer.Caution: retinoids are photosensitive and should only be used at night. Never go outside or into the sunlight with it on. Wear sunscreen when you do go into the sun.
There are some retinoid products that are available over-the-counter, such as adapalene gel (or Differin gel). It is a little milder than prescription preparations and is available at most drugstores.
You may actually see an increase in blackheads and other acne for the first two to four weeks. This is normal with retinoid therapy, and your skin will improve significantly after this initial period., Bentonite clay is a mineral-rich healing substance that draws out oils or other impurities locked in the pores. When using this type of clay mask, the skin gets to soak in all the minerals while the clay draws out the blackheads. Add in a little jojoba oil to help moisturize your skin..


Use one tablespoon of Bentonite clay.
Add water to form a paste.
Using clean fingertips cover your face with a thin layer of paste.
Let it sit for 10 – 25 minutes.
Rinse off with lukewarm water.
 Pore strips may help provide immediate improvement for plugged pores. However, pore strips can dry your skin and thus, you should only use them once or twice a week.Wash your face with soap and lukewarm water.
Thoroughly wet your nose and apply the strip.
Let the strip dry for about 10 – 15 minutes until stiff to the touch.
Carefully peel off the strip and the blackheads with it.
Avoid using on acne blemishes or swollen, sunburned, excessively dry skin, or skin prone to spider veins.
 Dermatologists can provide treatments such as chemical peels and blackhead extraction in sterile, safe conditions. These are professional methods that should be done only as recommended by your dermatologist. Chemical peels are fairly effective for treating blackheads.Your dermatologist may also perform a “comedo extraction,” using a small surgical tool to remove your blackheads. This should only be done by a trained professional. Attempting to extract blackheads at home using tools could cause infection and permanent scarring. You may be a good candidate for extraction if your blackheads keep coming back despite other treatments.A trained professional aesthetician can also provide many of these treatments, but you should always consult with your doctor or dermatologist before getting a chemical peel, extraction, or other skin treatment.