 Write down exactly what you eat and when you eat it. Make a brief note as to portion sizes as well. Don’t forget to write down what you drink. Keep journaling your food choices until you feel as if you are aware of your dietary patterns and what needs to be adjusted.


Writing down everything will help you to differentiate between hunger pangs and a craving for addictive substances. As your body begins to recover, you will see that many of your body’s cues are actually requests for additional nutrients via food.You can also download smartphone apps that will allow you to track your diet. This may be a more convenient way to store the information, just make sure to keep the entries accurate and up-to-date.;
, Start your day by eating breakfast about 30 minutes after getting out of bed. From that point onward, eat a small meal every two to four hours until your final evening snack. Staying full with a regular snacks and meals will keep your blood sugar consistent and help you resist giving in to other problematic cravings.


Carry healthy snack foods with you, such as almonds, so that you nibble on something healthy if you feel hunger pangs. If you need to keep your hands busy, you can choose a more interactive snack such as string cheese, which you can shred and eat piece-by-piece.If you simply don’t feel hungry (lack of appetite is common when in recovery), carry some saltine crackers with you and munch on them whenever you can. This will help to stimulate your appetite, keep your hands busy, and soothe your stomach.All of your meals and snacks throughout the day should total to around 2,000 calories. Try to maintain a balance of 30% calories from fat, 45% calories from carbohydrates, and 25% calories from protein., Your addiction may have inhibited your ability to sense when you are no longer hungry and full. Monitor your portion sizes by paying attention to product packaging and general nutritional guidelines. Go online and print out a small portion calculator or download an app on your phone to provide portion references for you.


One easy method to measuring out portions is comparing the food to parts of your hand. For example, a portion of cheese is the same size as your pointer finger. A portion of chicken should fit on the flat surface of your palm, making it around 3 ounces., Nutrient-dense foods are a critical component of an effective recovery diet. Consuming fresh or raw fruits and vegetables will increase your antioxidant levels, boost your immune system, and help to reverse some of the damage done to your body.Certain fruits and vegetables can target particular elements of your body’s recuperation process. For example, green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, can fight off nausea and intestinal issues. Acidic fruits, such as limes, can improve the functioning of your liver.Experiment with fruits and vegetables by trying out new ones each week. For example, if you’ve never had eggplant before, try making eggplant pasta one night for dinner. This will also prevent you from becoming overly focused on only one type of fruit or vegetable, meaning you will be getting a variety of nutrients.
Always thoroughly clean fresh produce prior to consuming, to clean off any potential pesticide residue or harmful bacteria.
 Being in recovery requires a number of major lifestyle changes, so don’t overwhelm yourself by expecting diet perfection overnight. Instead, pick a few areas to work on based on what your food journal shows and what your body tells you. For example, if you eat way too much candy, try to replace some of it with fruit in your diet.