 Their Lifetime Want will depend on their personality and Aspiration. A Family sim who is grumpy probably won't want to have kids by the dozen.;
, Since almost all families start off with $20,000, it's hard to start off their lives. Use the Family Funds cheat at the neighborhood screen, and give them a couple of grand more.
 If you create an Adult Sim, they won't have any skills (or badges with other expansions). Work on these for a few days before you get a job. It will make it easier in the long run.
 Like the above, making a few friends before you get a job can make it easier (when you get Nightlife, don't turn down the request to go Downtown with strangers) For all you know, you might meet a potential soul mate.
 Working on your career for a time before you start a family means you can have a nicer, bigger house and more money if you decide to have kids. Making best friends before making a move on a possible love interest means the chances of your actions being rejected are lowered.
 Even if their Hygiene need is less then halfway down, make them take a bath or shower. Make them watch some telly before that Fun bar goes yellow. Keeping your Sim happy is worth it for jobs, friends, lovers and is almost equal at first to Platinum Aspiration. But don't apply this to their Hunger needs. If they want to stay in shape without working out, make sure their Hunger is relatively low before feeding them anything.
 Maybe getting your Sim that nicer bed after a bonus. Buying your Sim better quality fittings will increase their needs more after using the object.
 Keeping your house tidy while trying to get a promotion is tricky. Having to stay off to look after a new arrival is too. Hiring maids, nannies, gardeners ETC will make your Sim's life easier, as they don't have to worry about their houses and families as much.
 Giving a toddler Smart Milk, then wearing the Thinking Cap can mean your toddler will be walking in less then two Sim hours. The Elixir of Life and the Sim-eating plant (University) makes your Sim's house a fountain of youth. There are many more combinations. Find them and use them!

, The time does fly on Lots, and it can tire your Sim out very quickly. Especially on Business Lots (Open For Business). If you have to go on a Lot, it is advisable to use a cheat to increase your Sim's needs. Boolprop and Max Motives are good ones.

