 Doing a fairy face paint design requires some special face paint colors and brushes to complete, but it is quite easy to do. Before you get started, you will need:








face paints in medium blue, light green, white, and dark pink
non-metallic glitter (non-metallic glitter is safer to use on your face because it is less likely to get stuck in your eyes)a small paintbrush
a thin paintbrush
a makeup sponge
a cup of water for thinning out face paint;
, Use a makeup sponge to dab some medium blue face paint onto your eyelids, temples, and the area just below your eyes. Then take a new makeup sponge and use it to dab some of your light green face paint onto the edge of your eyelid and extending out towards your temple as well.








The paint should not go past the inner edges of your eyes. Leave this area bare.
Keep in mind that designs that cover the eyes are not always ideal for young children because they tend to rub their eyes and may end up smearing the paint and getting it into their eyes.Make sure that you let your base dry before you start adding details., Next, take your small makeup brush and use it to draw a series of teardrops extending out from your eyes. Start above one of your eyebrows and gently press down with your paintbrush and pull it down towards your eye. Then, create another teardrop right next to this one.








Create three more teardrops on the outer edge of your eye. The teardrop in the middle should be the biggest one.
Create three more teardrops that start just below your cheekbone and extend these up towards your eye. Again, the central teardrop should be the largest one.
Make sure that you create the same kinds of teardrops around your other eye as well.
If the face paint is too thick to use, dip your brush into your cup of water and then dip it into the paint., To create the flowers, take your small paintbrush and dip it into white face paint and scrape off any excess. Then, dip just the tip of the same paintbrush into dark pink face paint. When you press the brush against your skin it should create a petal-like mark.








Use your brush to create flowers around the outer edges of your eyes and on your cheekbones. The number of flowers that you can create will depend on how much space you have left.
After you have made the same number of flowers on each side, add some petals extending down from the flowers on your cheekbones.
 Next, switch to a thin brush and dip it into pink face paint. Scrap off any excess paint, and then use the brush to outline your teardrops.








Use the tip of the thin brush to add central dots to the flowers you have created as well.
 Using a clean, thin brush, get a small dab of white paint on the tip. Use the tip to dab little specks of white face paint onto the areas around the flowers and teardrops.








These specks can be somewhat random and in slightly different sizes.
 After you have finished your fairy design, let it dry for a few minutes. Then, take some of your glitter and gently press some of it into some of the flowers and teardrops to help accent your design.








When you are ready to remove the glitter, try using a piece of tape.Press the sticky side of the tape onto the glitter and then slowly peel it away. The tape should pull off most of the glitter.
 Lipstick is optional, but it is a nice touch. Try a dark pink color that will bring out the pink highlights in your design. Make sure that you ask first if you are painting someone else’s face.







