 Two styrofoam balls will work nicely. Ideally, the balls will be different sizes. The smaller ball should have approximately ¼ the diameter of the larger ball. If styrofoam isn’t your thing, you could use plastic or rubber balls.


To find the diameter of a ball, measure all the way around the middle of the ball.
If the large ball has a diameter of four inches, you’ll want the small ball to have a diameter of one inch.;
, The earth is larger than the moon. This fact should be reflected in your model. Color the large ball with blue marker or paint to represent the oceans and green or brown paint to represent the continents. This will give your model character and and make it more realistic. It will also help others to understand what they are looking at when they see your model.
 The smaller of the two balls can be colored grey. You can add black dots and circles to denote the craters that are scattered across the moon’s surface. Some people also choose to color the moon yellow, just make it clear that it is not the sun.


The relative size of the objects should be a reasonable indication that your model contains the moon and not the sun. The sun is much larger than the earth or moon.
 In order to fix your model so that the earth and moon are always in the place you want them to be, you will need to put each ball on a stick. If you’ve used the styrofoam balls, this will be rather easy. Just slide the a metal, plastic, or wooden stick through the center of the ball so that it stands on the stick.


There is no need to push the stick all the way through.
 You can place the balls any distance apart. However, if you want to make the model to scale, you will need to measure the distance more precisely. The objects should be separated by a distance of nine and a half times the earth’s circumference. Measure this distance with a ruler or tape measurer.


For example, if your earth is four inches in diameter, the moon should rest thirty-eight inches from the earth. That is 3 feet and 2 inches.
 Once you have measured the appropriate distance for your objects, it is time to mount them. Use nails, screws, or glue to set the sticks on a board. This will allow you to move the model without it coming apart.
 To do this you will need a flashlight or a lamp. Cast a solar eclipse by shining the light onto the moon ball. This will create a shadow on the Earth ball.Make sure that the lights in the room are turned off so that you can see the shadow.
 To do this you will do the opposite of what you did to cast a solar eclipse. Use the flashlight or lamp to cast a lunar eclipse by shining the light onto the Earth ball. This will create a shadow on the moon ball., The moon orbits the earth on a cycle of approximately 28 days. This generates the tides in the ocean and allows us to see different stages of the moon (half moon, full moon, etc.). The earth holds the moon in its gravitational orbit and prevents it from drifting off into space.
 When your model is not in use, you can hang it from your ceiling. This makes a good decoration and displays your model. To do this, you can tie a string around the middle of your model and hang it, or you can screw or glue a hook to the center of the model for hanging.

