 Nutrition is important for your body's overall health, but it can also play a role in how healthy and cared for you look. That's because the nutrients you receive through food are used by your body to grow and make new cells.If you consistently eat an unhealthy diet, your body may not be getting the nutrients it needs, which can result in body weight issues like obesity, or in deficiencies like anemia.Anemia can cause a pale appearance, fatigue, and other health problems.Get two to seven ounces of lean protein each day. Protein can come from lean meats (like salmon, tuna, of low-fat chicken) or meat-alternatives (like tofu or seitan). You can also get protein from nuts, beans, and eggs.Be sure to get at least five servings of fruits and vegetables each day.Keep your fat intake below 30 percent of your total energy intake.Try to consume only “good” fats that are unsaturated and are especially beneficial to improving your skin’s appearance. These fats can be found in: fish and shellfish, flaxseed, hemp oil, soya oil, canola oil, chia seeds, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, leafy vegetables, walnuts, sesame seeds, avocados, salmon and albacore tuna.Aim for two to three servings of dairy products each day.Eat three to eight ounces of grains each day. Whenever possible, choose whole grains, such as whole grain breads or pasta.Avoid foods and drinks with added sugar, including processed and packaged foods., Exercise can help you look and feel healthier.A rigorous workout routine can help you lose and manage health conditions like cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, depression, anxiety, and arthritis.For best results, try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise each day.Talk to your doctor about starting a workout program that's right for you. You can also ask your doctor for specific workout recommendations that will help you meet your goals., Drinking water does more than just satisfy your thirst. It also helps your heart pump blood more efficiently, which in turn helps your muscles work better. Hydration can also reduce inflammation like swollen feet and prevent painful symptoms like headache or dizziness.A general rule is that you should drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water each day. However, if you are physically active and/or live in a warmer climate, you may need considerably more water each day.
Monitoring your urine is the best way to gauge dehydration. If your urine comes out clear or pale yellow, you are adequately hydrated. If the color of your urine is a darker shade of yellow, or if you produce little to no urine while going to the bathroom, that is a sign that you may already be dehydrated.

