 How many times do people break up with their girlfriends because they don't like them? Take time and consider her. Do you like her solely based on looks? Chances are, you won't make it far in a relationship. If you like her based on her personality, you'll have a much better chance.;
, I know it sounds like rushing, but if you go into a relationship knowing that you're going to break up two weeks later, what's the point of setting yourself up for heartbreak? If you think that you could end married to this girl, ask her out. If not, you're only breaking your own heart, and hers.
 Find out what her interests are. Does she like soccer? Reading? Is she a girly girl, or more tomboyish? Is she a Christian? Is she shy? What music does she like? Find out more about her and see what kind of interests/views you have in common.
 Before you ask her out, you have to realize that girls like guys that have confidence, but they understand shyness. So, be yourself. If you act like something you're not, she's going to find out sooner or later, so just be yourself. If she doesn't like you for who you are, then so be it. She may just not be right for you, and there's plenty of other women out there. And be aware that some shy girls may be kind of scared by someone too confident, so find a balance.
 This makes it alot easier to know her interests and talk casually to her. Make sure that she knows you are affectionate to her if she is upset. Girls love guys with emotion, so by becoming friends with her, you can show that you have alot of emotion and you are kind.
 No matter what other people say, no girl wants to go out with a guy that doesn't have enough guts to ask her out in person. True, it might be easier for you because you don't have to deal with the pressure of her being there, but it's so much worse for her, because she doesn't know what to say after that. It's much more natural in person.Plus, there is more of a chance to get that "no" when she doesn't feel that you really mean it.
 If you cannot ask her out in person, then call her up. At least you're really talking, not using childish abbreviations and emoticons on Facebook. Tell her how you feel about her. Let her know that you'll always be there for her. Don't tell her you love her right away, because depending on how long you've known her, that's a little creepy. Be honest with her, and be yourself, and it will come naturally. Also, when asking a girl out and you don't have a lot of self confidence you just have to be a man and say "Hey I like/love you and I really would like to get to know you better" and if she says no, then just be like she couldn't handle all this awesomeness, because you are awesome and you should know it.
 (EX:a guy who hates doing whatever the girl is passionate about.)

, she will probably say no, but if you lay it gently like,"Hey (insert name here), I know we're just friends but will you go out with me?" She may say no to even this, but don't be so discouraged, keep on trying, not too often though.

