 The most effective way to prevent mosquito bites while you are pregnant is to use commercial mosquito repellent. Commercial mosquito repellents that contain DEET and picaridin have been approved by the EPA and thus are considered safe to use for pregnant and breast-feeding women.Follow the directions for when and where to apply, how much to apply, and how often it should be applied. Only apply the repellent on exposed skin and on clothing, not on skin under clothing. Also, keep it away from the eyes and mouth, and use sparingly near the opening of ears.The commercial mosquito repellent that you use should contain at least 10 percent DEET or picaridin.
Some people are allergic to DEET, so stop using it if it irritates your skin.;
, There are some natural mosquito repellents that can increase your unattractiveness to mosquitoes when used on your skin. These include lemon eucalyptus oil, lavender, cinnamon oil, Greek catnip oil, thyme oil, soybean oil, citronella, and tea-tree oil.Most of these natural oils should be combined with water and then sprayed on your skin in a diluted form.
For pregnant women concerned about the communicable diseases that can be spread by mosquitoes, natural mosquito repellents should be used in combination with commercial products, not as your only protection.
 If you want to make yourself less attractive to mosquitoes you should try to cover up as much skin as possible. Mosquitoes are attracted to various scents released through your skin.If you cover it up, mosquitoes will be able to smell you less effectively.A few things that mosquitoes are attracted to are heat and carbon dioxide. Pregnant women usually give off more of both of these things.The color of your clothing may also matter. Mosquitoes have been found to prefer dark colors, so opt for lighter colored clothing when possible., In addition to wearing clothing that covers most of your skin, you can also apply mosquito repellents such as Picaridin and DEET to your clothing.This provides another layer of protection from mosquito bites.The best products to apply to your clothes are marked for that use and include the active ingredient permethrin. This is the only FDA approved chemical mosquito repellent approved for use directly on fabric, though should never be applied directly to skin.