 If you have decided to donate your physical resources to an organization, you should take stock of what you can give.


It is completely okay if you feel that you don’t have much to give. Small donations can still have a meaningful impact on the organization and the people they help.Go through your belongings and identify anything that you could do without. This could be books, old electronics, clothing, furniture, tools, and more.
Create a pile of things that you would like to donate. You can divide this pile up between different organizations, as long as they are willing to accept these items.
 Budgeting is already an important part of our financial health. When you modify your budget to include a section where you set aside money to donate, you can commit to giving financially.Your employer may offer matching contributions for charitable giving. This means that if you decide to give $100, your company will also give $100, so the charity receives $200.
Use a search tool to see what sort of donations that your employer will match. You can also speak to a member of the Human Resources Department to get this information.Set aside a certain amount of money each month that you can commit to giving. Some charities will allow you to make automatic donations on a monthly basis, so you don’t have to remember to give at a certain time.
 When you’ve collected things that you know that could be used by someone else, you need to make sure that they are gently used, functional, and clean.


Call the organization or check their website to see if they will accept the item. For example, some organizations will accept appliances like fridges while others do not.
Some organizations will offer to pick up your donation. This is especially helpful for large items like furniture that can be difficult to transport., There are many different things that you can donate.Here is a list of some different items that can help you get started:


Clothes
Rewards points that you’ve accumulated on your rewards credit card or from airline miles.
Non-perishable food
Glasses
Old cell phones and old electronics
Furniture
Books
Toiletries

