 There are 5 different light codes displayed around the Power button on the Xbox 360. Each of the codes represents a different failure state.


Green lights. Green lights indicate that the console is powered and operating correctly. The number of green lights indicates how many controllers are connected.
One red light. This is the Hardware Failure indicator. It is usually accompanied by an “E74” or similar code displayed on the TV. This is caused by the video scalar chip being damaged.
Two red lights. This is an overheating error. If the console becomes too hot, the system will shut down and display this light code. The fans will continue running until the components have been cooled.
Three red lights. This is the General Hardware Failure, also known as the Red Ring of Death. This indicates that one or more components have failed, and that the system is no longer operable. No error code will be displayed on the TV.
Four red lights. This indicates that the AV cable is not correctly plugged in. Check the connection from the console to the TV. This code will not display for HDMI connections.;
, While there is no easy quick fix, repair kits can be found for way less than the price of a new game. These kits typically come packaged with an Xbox 360 opening tool, new thermal paste, new heat sinks, and new washers. Some will include all of the screwdrivers you will need as well. Performing this fix yourself can be difficult, but can fix most Red Ring of Death cases.
 An Xbox opening tool will make this process much easier, and this tool is typically included in most repair kits. The opening process is the most difficult part of the repair process, if you don't have the Xbox opening tool.
 Disconnect the cables from the back of the DVD drive. Once the cables are disconnected, pull the DVD drive up and out.
 Pull the plastic shroud off by pressing in the sides and pulling it. Disconnect the fan cable from the motherboard. Pull the cooling fans out of the case.
 Pry off the plastic cover from the front circuit board. Remove the three screws that connect the board to the case. You will need a T6 screwdriver.
 Once the case has been completely opened, you can slide the motherboard directly out of the case. Place it on a protected surface to prevent damage or static shock.
 You can pry the clamps off their posts with a small flathead screwdriver. Go slowly to avoid damaging the motherboard with the screwdriver.
 Once the clamps have been removed, lift the heat sinks directly off of the board. You may have to apply a little force to pull the heatsinks off of the thermal paste.
 You may need to use acetone or nail polish to completely remove the old thermal paste.


You don’t need to apply very much thermal paste. If the paste oozes out when you put the new heat sink on, then you have too much. Remove the heat sink again and clean the excess thermal paste.
 Replace these with the replacement pads from our fix-it kit. These will apply more pressure to the board, keeping the RAM from becoming unseated.
 Make sure that everything is properly screwed back in. Plug your Xbox in and attempt to power it on.

