 If it will be one soloist with instrumental backup, you would choose different members than if you want to sing barbershop harmony, for instance. Or it could be something in-between, where a couple of you sings, and maybe all play instruments.;
, Time to decide who you want to be in your group. School Friends or maybe your sister! Select people who have the talent and the time. Make sure they are willing to participate and work for it. At least one of you should have some musical knowledge and experience, and at least one of you must have the patience and the discipline to make sure the group keeps going!

, As soon as you know your plans, you need to have a meeting with your 1st few members; maybe they have an idea about someone else who could join the group. Maybe they have an idea for a new song.
 Maybe one of your friends can't sing but wants to be a part of the group; she would be perfect for a secretary to take notes at meetings about ideas. You should also have a treasurer, who could also take the place of secretary sometimes. Both should have computer skills. The Treasurer will hold onto the money and keep track of what you put in and take out.
 Write a song or choose a song to make a routine to. This is team effort. All the members should put forth ideas and mix and match the agreed upon ideas.
 This is what the group needs to do consistently. You should practice every week, several times a week, in the summer, and at least once a week during the school year.


It is best to practice for at least two weeks before you go up to perform in public. You should try to meet once a weekend for 3-5 hours.
 Once everything is set, you need to get noticed.


Upload your videos to YouTube.
Try to get an agent. Even though doing this is not necessary in the beginning, it could be helpful in getting your performances noticed.
Ask your local recreation center if you can perform during one of their sports events.
Ask your cousin if she wants entertainment for her birthday.
Ask all (or some) of your friends to help you make a support team (street team).

