


Job-based - You may be eligible for health insurance coverage if your employer (or the employer of your spouse or parent) offers health insurance. You cannot be denied coverage based on your health status, however you may be turned away based on other factors, such as working part-time. (The Employee Benefits Security Administration has more information about protections in place for those with job-based coverage: http://www.askebsa.dol.gov or 1-866-444-3272.)
PublicMedicaid - Medicaid provides insurance to people with disabilities, low-income families, and low-income children. It covers services such as outpatient doctor visits, hospital admissions, vaccinations, prescription medications, preventative care for children, vision, hearing, and long-term care.

Medicare - Medicare provides health insurance to people over age 65, people with end-stage renal disease, and people under 65 with certain disabilities. It typically covers similar services as Medicaid, but it also may cover skilled nursing facility care and hospice care.
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP)- CHIP provides insurance to low-income children. Coverage varies from state to state, but all states pay for routine check-ups, hospital admissions, vaccinations, dental care, lab tests, and x-ray services.


Private insurance;
, For example:


Can I keep my current doctor?
Does this plan’s network includes high quality doctors and hospitals?
Will this plan cover my health costs when I’m traveling?

,


Deductible - A deductible is how much you pay before insurance coverage begins.For example if the deductible is $1000, the insured would be required to pay for the first $1000 of medical services themselves before the insurance company begins to pay for any services. A deductible is typically applied annually, meaning at the end of year, the insured must again pay the deductible before the insurance company will start to contribute.
Out-of-pocket maximum - How much in total you will have to pay if you get sick.
Co-payment ("copay") - A fixed fee the insured must pay each time a medical service is used.For example, you may have to pay a $15 copay every time you visit your doctor's office.
, This may help in narrowing down the choices for insurance plans.
, It's important to know what to keep in mind depending on which of the following groups you belong to:


Families with ChildrenIf insurance companies must spend at least 80% of your premium dollars on medical care rather than advertising and executive bonuses, or else they will have to provide you a rebate.
Any children under 26 can remain on your insurance plan.
Insurance companies can no longer impose lifelong limits on the amount spent on medical care.
Health plans are now required to cover preventative services for families, such as mammograms and vaccines.
Insurance companies can no longer refuse to provide coverage for children with pre-existing illnesses.


People with DisabilitiesJob-based and private insurance plans can no longer deny coverage for pre-existing conditions, including disabilities, to those under age 19. (In 2014, this will expand to cover all ages.)
Insurance companies can no longer drop you after you get sick simply because of an honest mistake made on your coverage application.
Insurance companies can no longer impose lifelong limits on the amount spent on medical care.


Small BusinessesKnow that if you have less than 25 employees, pay annual wages below $50,000, and provide health insurance, you could qualify for a small business tax credit of up to 35% to offset the cost of providing insurance to your employees.
Employers that provide health insurance to those ages 55-64 can get assistance through the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program: http://www.errp.gov/.
The Health Insurance Marketplace will also be available to small business owners with the less than 100 employees.
Employers with fewer than 50 employees are no longer required to pay fees due to new employer responsibility policies.Pregnant Women

Pregnant women with incomes up to $20,000 are covered by Medicaid in every state.Insurance companies can no longer refuse to provide coverage for babies born with health problems.
Insurance companies must now cover certain preventative health services, such as screening for gestational diabetes and breastfeeding support.


Women

Women can now receive a range of preventive services such as mammograms, new baby care, and well-child visits, with no out-of-pocket costs.
Beginning in 2014, insurance companies will no longer be able to charge women more for health insurance than men.


SeniorsExisting Medicare benefits will not change once the ACA goes into full effect.
Medicare currently covers certain preventative services, such as colon, prostate, and cervical cancer screening, tobacco cessation counseling, cholesterol and diabetes screening, and vaccinations.
Seniors are eligible for a 50% discount on brand-name prescription drugs while in the coverage gap known as the "donut hole."


Young Adults

If you are under the age 26, you can now remained covered as a dependent under your parent's insurance.