;
, Not a bad idea, but don't feel you must continue with that particular therapist if you don't seem to "hit it off." There are several types and everyone is different. In the same vein, don't bail on a therapist after the first session...you need time and more interaction to make a decision like that.


An important thing to screen for when choosing your therapist is whether you generally share a similar religious and political outlook on life. A conservative Christian therapist may be a great match for a conservative Christian who needs help, coordinating well with their client's minister. An atheist liberal trying to connect with a conservative Christian therapist will (at best) waste precious, high-paid hours that should be help in circular arguments.
Check to make sure that your therapist respects your LGBT+ and/or disability status. You don't want a therapist who decides that your bisexuality needs to be "fixed" along with your mental disorder, or that autism should be forced out of your head by any means possible.
 How well are they regarded by their peers? What's their general success rate? Therapy is an art, not a science, a good therapist has the right personality, good training and plenty of experience with your particular type of problem. If they specialize in alcohol and addiction issues but your problem is unrelated, you may be better off looking for a different specialist.
 Do you feel comfortable around them? Do you feel that you could get along well? Do you think that their style would help you make progress? Set up an intake appointment with two or three therapists and get a feel for how they work. Then choose the one you feel would help you best.


If you don't feel comfortable with a certain therapist, that's okay. Maybe the two of you aren't a good match. Cancel any appointments you have with them, and try someone else. (Ask a loved one to make the call if you have severe social anxiety.)
Some therapists, notably some in applied behavioral analysis for autism, disregard personal boundaries and the right to say no. If you run across one of these, cut the appointment short and find a different therapist.
 You'll fill out questionnaires and be asked about yourself so the therapist can screen you as a patient; you also have the opportunity to screen the therapist to make sure that you like them. Here are some questions that you may have:


How do you normally go about treating _______?
What techniques are most useful for ________?

(for LGBT+) Do you have experience with LGBT clients?

(for autism) Do you support Autism Speaks? If so, why? (They may not know much about it.) Do you believe all autism symptoms should be eradicated?

, It is proven effective for reducing the impact of phobias and ultimately curing them. It may also help with some other shock and trauma related mental problems.
 Depending on the type of therapy, you may learn different things, from progressive relaxation to challenging negative thoughts. Work on those techniques in your everyday life.


Doing relaxation techniques in bed can be a good way to get practice (and to fall asleep).
Use self-calming techniques before stressful events.
 This is the only way you will get the help you need. Don't try to minimize, don't try to make yourself out better (or worse) than you really are. Don't lie - you're only hurting yourself. You made this important decision to seek help - don't give up on yourself.

