 From here, download the drivers from the "Download" section. These drivers will make your Xbox 360 controller work with Windows 8's operating system.
 Doing so will prompt a drop-down menu with all of the available drivers for the Xbox 360 controller. You'll see two Windows 7 options here: "32-bit only" and "64-bit only".

If the page doesn't scroll down automatically, first scroll down to below the "Free Shipping. Free Returns" banner and click Download on the right side of the page.
 Since the Xbox 360 controller doesn't have Windows 8 drivers available, you'll use the Windows 7 drivers that correspond to your version of Windows (32-bit or 64-bit).

If you aren't sure of your operating system's bit count, you can check your version of Windows.
 It's below the box with your drivers' information; the link will say something like "Xbox 360 Accessories Software 1.2". Once you click the link, the drivers file will begin to download.

Depending on your browser, you may first need to select a download location.
 You'll find the file in your computer's default downloads location (e.g., the desktop). The file should be named "Xbox360_Eng" where "" is "32" or "64" depending on your operating system version., It's at the bottom of the drop-down menu., You'll see this option at the top of the "Properties" window., This text is beneath the "Compatibility mode" heading., It's below the "Run this program in compatibility mode for:" text.

If you've never used compatibility mode before, this box will likely say "Window XP" or something similar.
 It's toward the bottom of the drop-down window here.,, Doing so will launch the setup window., You'll likely need to click Yes when prompted to allow the setup file access to your computer, after which you'll simply check the "I agree" box on the "Terms and Conditions" page and then click Next to begin installing the drivers., This process will likely take several minutes., It's in the bottom-right corner of the setup window. Doing so will complete the drivers' installation, though you'll need to restart your computer in order for them to work properly., You'll see this pop up in a window; clicking it will restart your computer and ensure that your Xbox 360 controller's drivers are properly integrated.

Make sure you save any open work before restarting your computer.
 Do so by plugging the narrow end of the controller's USB charging cable into the controller and the large end of the USB cable into one of your computer's USB ports.

USB port locations vary depending on the type of computer you're using. If you can't locate the USB ports, check the sides or the back of your computer's CPU (desktop) or the back of the casing (laptop).
 It's the large, circular X button in the middle of the controller. Doing so will turn on your controller.

If prompted, first click Yes when asked if you trust the device.
 After a second, you'll see a column pop out., It's at the bottom of the column on the right side of the screen., It's near the bottom of the "Settings" column., This option is in the top-left corner of the "PC Info" page., It's at the bottom of the page; double-clicking this option will expand it to show all Xbox 360 accessories. You should see "Xbox 360 Controller for Windows" listed below the "Xbox 360 Peripherals" heading., If you don't see this option, try unplugging your controller from its current USB port and plugging it into a different one., It's the top option in the drop-down menu., Doing so will scan for any missing or outdated drivers for your controller. Since you already installed the drivers, you'll likely see a message that says "This device is using the best drivers," in which case your controller is ready to use.

If you're prompted to update the drivers, follow the on-screen instructions to do so. After this process is complete, your Xbox 360 controller will be usable with Windows 8!

