 Gray skinny jeans can certainly be styled casually, but for the ultimate laid-back look, go with a relaxed cut.Jeans with a relaxed cut sit right at the waist and fit comfortably around the hips and thighs. Typically, they feature a slightly tapered leg, but this can certainly vary. Lighter washes tend to complement the looser cut of the jeans better than the darker shades of gray.


For an even more casual look, wear a distressed pair of gray jeans with a strategic rip at the knee.;
, The light gray color adds to the overall casual vibe, and the tightness of the skinny jeans provides balance when wearing them with a loose-fitting top. Choose a simple top, like a racer back tank top or long-sleeved t-shirt, in a neutral or pastel color. Basic prints, like stripes, also work well.Opt for skinny jeans made of stretchy material, which fit more like leggings than jeans.
Vintage-looking sneakers, like Converse, or simple ballet flats are both flattering choices for footwear.
 Keep things simple by choosing your other garments from a neutral color palette.For example, wearing gray jeans with a basic black t-shirt is a classically casual look that tends to flatter almost everyone. Various shades of gray, white, and navy blue are also good options for t-shirt colors. All cuts complement this look, so feel free to choose your favorite jeans fit.


Add a pop of color to a neutral toned outfit with your accessories. For instance, liven up dark gray jeans and a light gray t-shirt with a green bomber jacket or cherry red scarf.
Complete this look by choosing casual shoes like loafers, trainers, or ankle boots.
 Choose a lighter wash and balance the light color out with a darker sweater, such as charcoal gray. Wearing contrasting shades of gray creates a monochrome look that is both casual and sharp. The chunky knit texture breaks up the uniformity and balances everything out.


If the weather is too warm for a knit sweater, try a loose-fitting cardigan over a knit tank top.
To keep things monochrome, wear this outfit with simple black boots or ballet flats.

