 Ask yourself which of your personal qualities make you a great friend. Perhaps you’re funny, a good listener, or able to find something nice to say about everyone. Make a list of these traits and refer to it when you’re feeling shy or self-conscious., Work on developing your skills and interests in your free time. Whether you’re into sports, art, or animals, having hobbies will give you things to talk about with other people, which can help you feel less shy. Being good at something will also help you develop strong self-esteem.Hobbies can also give you a reason to get involved in clubs or groups, which is a good way to meet new friends.
 Even if you’re shy, you don’t need to turn into a different person to make friends. Embrace your real personality, whether you’re reserved, goofy, or caring. Being genuine will help you make friends who appreciate your true self, shyness and all.Being yourself doesn’t mean refusing to work on your negative traits. It just means owning and appreciating what makes you unique.
 Positive visualization and self-talk can help you feel less nervous about getting out and meeting new people. Imagine your encounters going well, and talk to yourself in an encouraging way, even if you mess up occasionally. For instance, before you introduce yourself to someone, tell yourself, “I bet this person is friendly,” instead of, “I’m always awkward when I introduce myself to someone new.”
Visualization helps you practice navigating different social scenarios before you actually encounter them.
 Everybody gets rejected now and then, no matter how comfortable they are talking to people. If someone doesn’t want to talk to you, it doesn’t necessarily mean you did anything wrong, so don’t let a few bad encounters discourage you from trying to make friends.For example, if someone isn’t open to talking to you, they might just be busy or worried about their home life. They could even be feeling shy, too.
If you find yourself stewing over a rejection, make yourself think about a positive encounter you had instead.

