 Your personal values can have an enormous impact on beliefs, goals, and identity. They are the things you feel are important in your life, and can include things like family, knowledge, kindness, etc. Identifying your values can help you understand who you are and what is most important to you.Make a list of the the times you were happiest in your life. What were you doing? Who were you with?
Then list when you felt most proud. What cause this feeling? Were others proud, too? Who?
List when you felt most fulfilled and satisfied. Did you feel the experience gave your life meaning? How? Why? Was a particular need or desire fulfilled? Which one?
Look through your list and try to identify which values these experiences represent. Examples include: growth, service, faith, determination, passion, love, loyalty, patriotism, honor, intellectual status, selflessness, etc. You can use the following list to help you: https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newTED_85.htm or search online for examples of personal values.
Finally, go back through the values you have identified and try to determine the top three that are most important to you.
 You must first know who you are in order to love yourself. Athletes who practice self-love tend to have more positive emotions about themselves and think more highly of their own behaviors.Part of loving yourself is truly knowing who you are, or creating a personal identity. These pieces of your identity make up who you are.


Make a list of all of the important components of your identity. Some identities include: athlete, mother, child, grandchild, passionate person, dancer, or writer. These are the important identities that you can learn to love and appreciate.
 How you think about yourself affects your feelings and behaviors.Evaluating your identity as positive may help you feel happier about yourself as a whole.Spend time thinking about your strengths (everyone has them) and you will find yourself more happy, and also more confident!
Look on the bright side of things!
Imagine positivity. Using imagery helps improve self-confidence.Imagine yourself as confident and completely happy with who you are. What does it feel like? What is happening? How did it occur?

, Positive affirmations or positive self-talk help improve confidence and reduce negative emotions such as anxiety.If you are feeling bad about yourself, try saying something positive like, “It’s okay that I didn’t get the grade I wanted on that test. It doesn’t make me a bad student. I know that I am a good student, I just need to learn how to do better next time and everything will turn out okay.” The key here is to not let small mistakes become part of your overall identity. Do not let yourself believe that having trouble at something makes you bad.
 Self-respect is about treating yourself well and not allowing anyone else to treat you poorly.


Take care of yourself physically and mentally. Poor health can lead to lack of well-being.Set boundaries with others. For example, don't joke with others about things that truly affect your self-esteem. If you're particularly sensitive about your weight, avoid joking with friends, as this may lead them to believe they can do it too.
 Having virtuous qualities such as: wisdom, courage, humanity, justice, temperance, and transcendence, can help you form a positive identity.If you want to become more focused on helping others, you can donate your money or time (volunteer) to a charity of your choice. This can help you feel like you are giving back to your community or the world as a whole.
 Focus on fixing what you can change. Having goals and working toward them can increase your happiness with who you are.This way you are progressing toward your ideal self.Gain employment. Not having a job is linked to a lack of well-being.Let go of what you can’t change. There are some things you can work toward (gaining employment, losing weight, etc) while others you cannot. Things like your height, ethnicity, and family upbringing are very difficult to change in a healthy way. Instead, accept these as they are and work toward coping with them.
 This can help increase intrinsic motivation and overall happiness.It is important that you are intrinsically motivated because this means you are able to motivate yourself and you rely less on outside rewards (praise from others, or financial gain) in order to achieve your goals.


Such expressive activities might include those which make you feel: alive, complete, involved, that it is what you are meant to do, that it fits you, and that you are truly being yourself.Define your purpose. What do you want to be remembered for? Being a good parent, friend, helping others?
Be persistent. Don't EVER give up. Don’t avoid taking chances because you fear you'll make a mistake.

