 Instead of letting anxiety throw you for a loop, let it guide you. Ask yourself three questions when you find yourself anxious: First, ask yourself what you can learn from your anxiety. Next, ask yourself what your mind is trying to say to you through its anxiety. Finally, ask what you can do to resolve the situation.For instance, say you're worrying about a job interview. This kind of anxiety can teach you that you find social situations nerve-wracking, and you may want to give yourself more time to prepare in the future. It could also be that your mind is trying to tell you you're not as prepared as you need to be, and you need to spend more time researching.
 Your mind is basically working itself up over nothing. That is, it's predicting that bad things will happen. However, you can balance out your mind's tendency to come up with negative scenarios by coming up with positive ones instead.For instance, consider the likeliness of negative scenario actually happening. Yes, you could be mugged because you're out after dark, but incidents are relatively rare.
Think about positive outcomes instead or at least non-negative ones. If you had an interview and you're worried you did badly, think about what could happen. Maybe you didn't do as badly as you think, and you'll get a call back. However, even if you did do badly and you don't get the job, you learned from the experience and can do better on the next one.
Analyze what's most likely to happen. Most of the time, the worst-case scenario your brain came up with is not likely to happen.
 Your brain puts together facts and ideas and mixes them with your experiences and thoughts. What goes on your brain isn't the objective truth that everyone else sees. Therefore, when you're having negative thoughts, step back from them a second see if what you perceive as a threat is really as bad as it seems; sometimes, your mind is just reacting instinctively.For instance, say you're looking around the room, and someone looks away as soon as you look at her. You may perceive this action as an affront. However, it could be just as likely that she was turning her head just as you came to her, and she didn't see you at all.
 One way to realize how negatively your thinking is to start labeling your thoughts. For instance, the next time you say "My hair looks awful," label that as "judgmental." Alternatively, the next time you say, "I hope my kid doesn't have a bicycle accident," label that as a "worry." Once you begin to see how much you worry or judge, you may realize you want to change those thoughts into something else.For instance, if you catch yourself saying, "I hope my kid doesn't have a bicycle accident," you can tell yourself that you've done everything you can to make her safe on her bicycle (by providing safety gear and giving her a safe place to ride), and now you have to stop worrying and enjoy spending time with your kid.
 Often, you will be your own worst enemy. You may be criticizing yourself when no one is. If you can stop that criticism and turn it around, you can help slow down your overactive mind.For instance, if you find yourself thinking something negative about your body, try to turn it into something positive. You could say, "I don't like the way my legs look. But they are strong, and they've carried me through many trials."

, Sometimes, just hopping in the shower in and of itself will help calm your mind. However, it also helps to add a cleansing ritual to it. For instance, as you shower, think about everything you are worried about being sucked down the drain, meaning you don't have to hold on to those worries anymore., Sometimes, the only way to refocus an overactive mind is to turn it to what's good rather than focusing on what's bad. For instance, take some time each day to write down a couple of things you're grateful for. Alternatively, if you find your mind going off the rails, take a few minutes to think about the people and things in your life that you love and are grateful for.