 Place your arms directly in front of you with the fingers pointing up and palms facing you. Relax your shoulders and take several deep breaths.


While you can perform acupressure anywhere, try to make yourself as comfortable as possible.;
, With your opposite hand, place 3 fingers below the crease of your wrist. Place your thumb right below them and center it in between the two large tendons. This is the pressure point.Specifically, you're looking for the P6, or inner gate, pressure point which relieves nausea. The same point on the opposite side of your arm is known as the SJ5, or outer gate.
 Take your thumb and index or middle finger and press firmly on the point on both sides of the wrist when you feel nauseous. Then gently, but firmly rub the point using a circular motion for several minutes. You may immediately feel relief, but it can sometimes take up to five minutes.Repeat the process with your other wrist.
 Simply do several quick taps while taking deep breaths. It doesn't matter which arm happens to be on top. If you like, you can alternate arms. Do this for several minutes, until you begin feeling relief.


For some, tapping or rubbing the wrists may seem easier than locating and massaging the P6 pressure point. Try tapping if you're still struggling to locate the exact pressure point.
 Find the bottom of your kneecap and measure four fingers below it. With your opposite hand, place a finger right below the lowest measuring finger (your pinky), on the outside of your shinbone. If you've correctly found the pressure point, a muscle will flex if you move your foot up and down.Specifically, you're looking for the ST36, or three miles, pressure point, which is one of the most widely used pressure points, providing nourishment and energy., Use your finger, fingernail, or heel of the opposite foot to apply firm pressure. You can keep pressure on it without any massage or you can rub up and down on the point. Either way, keep pressure on the point for several minutes.