 This is usually about six inches apart from instep to instep. Don’t let your toes point out or in, but rather straight forward.;
, Loosen them up slightly, like you are getting ready to walk.
 Pull your lower abdominal muscles inward. This will also shrink your waist and make it easier to stand up straight.
 Keep your arms at your sides.
 Drop your shoulders away from your ears.
 You should grow in length by about an inch as you stretch out your spine and activate the muscles in your core.
 To help keep a balanced figure, try balancing a book on your head while you hold proper posture.
 Try squatting for thirty seconds, and then do the butterfly stretch or the pigeon pose from yoga for a minute. The butterfly stretch is when you sit on the ground and bring the soles of your feet together, letting your legs fan out.


The pigeon pose from yoga is also a great hip opener. Swing your leg forward and turn the shin at a 90-degree angle to your leg. Reach your back leg behind you. Shift the weight in your hip so that you are evenly balanced and hold the pose for at least one minute before doing the opposite side. , Hold your standing posture. Keep in mind that this will often make your walk more feminine, but it will also accentuate the curve of your back and lock your knees, which will be harmful to your back in the long run.
 Lift your thigh slightly on your dominant leg and set the foot down in front of you from heel to toe. Your step should be approximately the length of your foot.
 Allow your hips to sway slightly in the direction of the leading foot. Women have a lower center of gravity and the hips naturally sway, especially when you are wearing heels.
 Don’t lead with your head, chin, shoulders or chest. Your legs should lead the walk, taking advantage of strong legs and hips and a lower center of gravity.
 Remember that walking like a lady involves swaying the hips slightly, but not the shoulders. Don’t try to take steps that are too large, or it will look unnatural.
 It can help your walk become second nature!

