 Coughing in dogs has many causes, including heart disease.The cough is a symptom and can't always be used to determine the cause; however, certain conditions do have distinctive types of cough, which can help point towards the source of the problem. Noticing what time of day your dog coughs can help determine the cough’s cause.


Coughing during the night can be caused by congestive heart failure, fluid buildup in the lungs, or tracheal collapse.Coughing can also occur throughout the day.;
, Sometimes, specific activities can trigger a coughing episode. For example, a dog with a collapsed trachea will cough if it tugs on its collar (the collar will squeeze the trachea) or drinks water. For a dog with heart failure, the cough is often worse at night, when the dog is resting. If a dog has a disease of the esophagus, eating will cause a coughing episode.If a dog has environmental allergies, inhaling a certain allergen (dust) can cause coughing; however, allergies usually aren’t the primary cause of coughing in dogs.Exercise can cause trigger coughing episodes in dogs with tracheal collapse., Some coughs in dogs have very distinctive sounds. The cough caused by tracheal collapse sounds like a goose honk. If a dog has kennel cough, it will have a dry, deep, hacking cough.Don’t worry if your dog’s cough doesn’t have a distinctive sound. Other details about your dog’s cough will help your vet diagnose the cough.
 A cough is considered productive if fluid gets coughed up through the mouth. Pneumonia, which is an infection that causes fluid buildup in the lungs, often causes a productive cough.Other causes of productive coughs include heart disease, heartworms, and kennel cough.Roundworms, which are an intestinal parasite can also cause coughing. During the roundworm lifecycle, the worm may travel to the lungs and cause coughing.A productive cough will sound "moist," meaning that it sounds like fluid is in the throat during the cough.
 If your dog coughs only occasionally, there’s likely no need to take them to the vet; however, there are times when coughing warrants further examination. Look for these signs to help decide if you should take your dog to the vet:Cough lasts more than a few days
Coughing has become more frequent throughout the day
Your dog is becoming more tired and isn’t eating much

, Your vet will need a lot of information from you to diagnose your dog’s cough. During the appointment, give your vet a detailed history of your dog’s cough. Include the following information:When the coughing occurs (only at night, throughout the day)
What triggers the coughing (excitement, eating, exercising, lying down)
What the cough sounds like (goose honk, hacking)
Whether anything gets coughed up (fluid, foreign material)
What type of parasite treatments you use and when they were last applied

, In addition to the initial history you provide, your vet will ask you questions to develop a list of possible coughing causes. Examples of questions your vet may ask include:For how long has your dog been coughing?
Does your dog have trouble breathing?
Have you taken your dog to a groomer or boarding facility recently?
Have you noticed weight gain or loss in your dog?
Does your dog seem more depressed or restless?

, A thorough physical exam will also help your vet diagnose your dog's cough. During the physical exam, your vet will listen closely to your dog’s heart and lungs. They may also press on your dog’s trachea to trigger a cough. If your dog has a coughing problem, pressing on the trachea may trigger coughing that lasts at least several seconds.Your vet will also touch your dog’s lymph nodes to see if they are enlarged to due infection. They will also check your dog’s gums. Gums with very visible blood vessels can indicate heart disease., Depending on your dog’s coughing history and physical exam findings, your vet will recommend diagnostic tests to confirm a coughing diagnosis. Chest x-rays and an echocardiogram (heart ultrasound) are useful for diagnosing heart disease as the cause of coughing.Your vet will recommend a fluid sample from your dog’s respiratory tract if they suspect a parasite (roundworms, heartworms) is causing the coughing.Additional diagnostic tests include blood work and a fecal exam.A fecal exam will check for intestinal parasites.
Talk with your vet to decide which combination of tests will help diagnose your dog’s cough.
 After you and your vet decide how to move forward, your vet will run the diagnostic tests. Based on the results of these tests, your vet will confirm the cause of the cough and recommend a treatment plan. Be aware that, if the cause is a chronic disease like heart failure, treatment will likely be for the rest of your dog’s life.

