 Visit your local pet store and purchase a H-style harness for ferrets. Do not buy a collar or a Figure-8 style harnesses. Your ferret could easily slip out of a collar, and the Figure-8 harness is often too loose on one side and too tight on the other.The harness should be made of nylon and have plastic buckles.
Metal buckles get too hot in the sun, and Velcro closures make it too easy for your ferret to escape.;
, Place the harness on your ferret for a few minutes and give him a treat. Your ferret will probably not like the harness at first and may resist, pretend to fall, or try to run away from you.Make sure the harness fits properly and is not too loose or too tight. You should be able to fit your little finger between the harness and your ferret.
Slowly increase the amount of time your ferret wears the harness and give him a treat each time. Your ferret should be used to the harness in a few weeks.
Let your ferret play while wearing his new harness. Give him a favorite toy, treat, or play a favorite game while wearing his harness.
 Once your ferret is comfortable with the harness, attach a ferret leash. Allow him to play with the leash attached, but do not hold the leash. Give your ferret a treat to reward his good behavior.Always supervise your ferret when his leash is attached. You do not want it to get tangled around his neck or some other object.
Gradually increase the time you leave the leash on. Move on to the next step once your ferret stops negatively reacting to wearing the leash.
 Once your ferret gets used to the leash, hold the leash and let your ferret walk around. Allow your ferret to lead. Gently tug on the leash a little to teach your ferret about resistance. Always reward your ferret with a treat.After a few training sessions, begin to direct your ferret using the leash. If he moves in a direction you do not like, gently tug the leash and guide him the desired direction. Reward him with a treat for following your lead.
Never yank your ferret with the leash or pick him up by his leash.

