 Just because you have been the victim of bullying, you do not have to act like a victim. This gives the aggressor more power over you and the situation.


Walk with your head held high, your chin up and your back straight. Project self-confidence rather than a lack of confidence; this makes it harder for someone to perceive you as weak., Stay away from students who seem to be trouble-makers. When a bully approaches you it's a good idea to stand near a teacher or any adult to deter them from teasing and taunting.


Sit near the bus driver on the school bus.
Choose a different route to class or home to avoid the bully.
Refrain from being in unsupervised areas of the school alone with the bully such as bathrooms or locker rooms.
Leave expensive possessions or excess cash at home to avoid confrontation.
 When you cannot prevent being in the same area with the bully, having a friend nearby can give you the courage you need to stand up to the bully or ignore the taunts.
 If your parents suggest that you use certain tactics to deter bullying behavior, it's a great idea to practice these skills when the pressure's off. Have your parents act as the bully and practice avoiding, ignoring, or appropriately responding to bullying, so that you will feel confident doing it in real life.
 Rather than playing into their hands, employ verbal strategies that will show them you are not fazed by their tactics.


Bully approaches in the hall: "Hey, you loser! What did Mommy pack you for lunch today?"
You: Smile and say, "Hi, there. See you later!" Walk away calmly and confidently.
Based on the phrase "kill them with kindness", a bully may be deterred from picking on you if it seems like the bullying behavior is not effectively scaring you., Speak confidently and assertively against the person bullying you.Practice doing this with a parent or close friend so that you are fully prepared when the situation arises.


Bully: "You can't sit here."
You: "There are no labels on these seats. I am free to sit where I please."

, Bullies often seem very frightening. Visualizing the bully with bright purple hair or a pig's nose may take away some of the fear this person causes you.
 Handling bullying in a healthy way can encourage others who are being terrorized by bullies. Standing up to your bully may give someone else the strength to do it, too.

