 Don’t worry about achieving professional-level glam shots for your audition photos. Expect editors and casting directors to value regular, unfiltered photos taken with an everyday camera over studio-produced portfolios. Use whatever camera you have handy. Assume natural poses, rather than mimic those seen in Playgirl spreads or other publications., For best results, take your audition shots outdoors if possible, during the day, with clear skies and the sun shining. If you take them indoors, use 100-watt bulbs in every available light fixture. Remove lampshades for extra brightness. Avoid posing in any shade or shadows.Again, don’t worry about creating professionally artful lighting rigs. Just make sure that your body is well lit so editors can see every detail.
 Maintain just enough distance between camera and subject so that the subject fills the frame. Keep the focus on you by remaining front and center in each shot. Hold the camera vertically so you can capture all of your body without disappearing into the background of a wider shot.Use a tripod if possible to ensure steady shots without blurring.
If you are taking these photos by yourself and don’t have a tripod, set your camera on a steady surface roughly four feet off the ground.
 Playgirl expects at least a dozen images of each subject.Show off your body at various angles. Take close-ups of particular areas. Focus on your best features, as well as any that are both distinctive and visually striking (like tattoos) to set you apart from other candidates. Also include the following:Headshots: one close-up of your face in profile; one close-up of your face while smiling, taken head-on; another one of your face brooding, also taken head-on.

Full body shots: one taken from the front; the other from the back.

Body close-ups: one of your upper body (face excluded); one shot of each leg in profile; another profile-shot of your buttocks.

Penis: two shots of your penis while fully or semi-erect; one in profile, the other head-on.
 If you are submitting your photos online, retitle each file with a combination of your own name, the date or month of submission, and the file's number in the series of photos. If you are submitting photos via mail or in person, label the back of each print with your name and contact info. Ensure that editors will be able to identify you even if your files or prints become separated from the original email or cover letter.An example of a way to title image-files is: “AlanSmitheeJuly2016-1,” “AlanSmitheeJuly2016-2,” “AlanSmitheeJuly2016-3,” etc.
 In addition to the photos, send a cover letter introducing yourself with your complete contact info. Provide the editors with your physical measurements and other information. Include the following:Personal info: age; ancestry; location

Physical info: height and weight; chest and waist size; inseam; penis length (both erect and flaccid); eye and hair color.

