 If you think that natural intelligence is the only way to succeed, you'll likely fail. Most people who have major successes work extremely hard to get there, even if they do have some natural talent. You also need to believe in the power of hard work to continually hone and master your skills.It's important to apply this principle to your everyday life. Work each day on mastering your skills. Don't give up because you don't get it on the first try.
For instance, if you've always wanted to paint, don't give it one attempt and think you've failed because you're not immediately great. Try honing your skills a bit each day.
Don't try to improve all your skills at once, either. Think about what is most important, then work on that first. Once you've begun to master that skill, work on what you think is the next most important skill.
 While this advice may sound simple, in practice it's not as easy. When you're trying to make something work, you may have a tendency to go back to the same solutions over and over. The key to breaking out of that cycle is to approach the problem from different angles to find new solutions.One way you can implement this strategy is to think about your assumptions on a project. Sometimes, changing the assumptions can change how you look at the problem.
For instance, maybe your problem is you need a new car that will carry items you own for your business. However, cars that are big enough to carry items inside are mostly out of your price range. You've made the assumption that you can only carry items inside the car. If you throw that assumption out, you may find a car with a top rack or a car that can pull a small trailer would work, both of which would fit your needs for cheaper.
 Persistence is absolutely key to developing a growth mindset. That's because it takes persistence to keep working through problems and to keep developing your intelligence and skills. Even if it seems like a problem will never have a solution, it's important to keep pushing forward. That's how the real work gets done.Persistent does not mean unrelenting — don't be afraid to take a break if you get overwhelmed or frustrated. Just make sure you go back to working on the issue.
 To develop a growth mindset, you need to constantly be expanding who you are. That means continually learning more about the world around you through whatever means you can. The more you learn, the more you grow.Read books. Take classes. Visit museums and educational sites. Watch documentaries. Take any opportunity you can to learn about the world around you.
Also, learn from other people. Talk to people in coffee shops, and ask them about their world. Ask for help from friends, family, and co-workers when you don't know something. Let others' experience guide you.
You can especially learn when your mind encounter very different situations: Make friends with people from different cultures or with different beliefs or ideologies. Experience things that you've never done. Go to places where you've never been. Let your mind become familiar with all the possibilities!

, Without realizing it, you may be working at less than your maximum because you sometimes need a challenge, something to compete against to push you harder. Sometimes, that competition can come from within, meaning your always pushing yourself to do better than the last time, always trying to best yourself. Each time you do, you'll learn a bit more about yourself and the world.