 Believing in yourself may be easier if you feel confident in the way that you look as well. You can make sure that you are looking and feeling your best by keeping a good daily hygiene and grooming routine.Make sure that you:


Shower or bathe
Style your hair
Trim or file your nails
Shave or keep your beard well groomed (men)
Brush your teeth (2X daily)
Maintain a pleasant body odor by using deodorant, scented lotions, and perfumes
Wear clothes that fit well and make you feel good
wear makeup that accentuates your best features (women)

, The food that you eat each day will affect the way that you feel physically and emotionally. If you take the time to prepare a nice meal for yourself, you will feel better than if you just eat a bag of chips and a can of soda for dinner. Make sure that you contribute to your overall well-being by only putting healthy food into your body., Exercise has long been noted for its ability to help reduce stress and make people feel happier, but some studies have also shown that exercise may help improve one’s confidence levels. Make sure to include at least 30 minutes of exercise into your daily routine to reap the physical and mental health benefits of exercise., Sleep deprivation can aggravate self-consciousness and other negative emotional tendencies, so it is important to get plenty of sleep every night.Feeling self-conscious and negative will make it harder for you to believe in yourself. Try to get about 8 hours of sleep per night to avoid these adverse effects.
 Make sure that you take a little time to relax every day. Incorporating activities like meditation, yoga, deep breathing, aromatherapy, and other soothing techniques will help you avoid negative thoughts and find it easier to believe in yourself. Find something that works for you and add it into your daily routine., Your surroundings may also affect the way that you feel about yourself, so it is important to maintain a clean and pleasant home for yourself. Keep your house (or at least your room, if you live with others) clean and inviting. Place meaningful objects around the room to help you feel encouraged.