 The first step to any lawsuit is determining whether you have a cause of action. In particular, you need to decide if you have a cause of action that will apply to enough other people to create a class action. A class action generally applies when the legal claim is widespread, affecting many people, but may not be valuable enough to encourage everyone to file suit. Some typical class action issues include the following:product liability claims, such as health products, drugs, or tobacco
service related claims, such as faulty cell phones or unfair consumer practices
employment discrimination or wage related claims
civil rights, including prisoners’ rights, segregation issues, or some school-related claims;
, Once you believe you have a legal claim that may interest other individuals, you need to find them. To identify other possible plaintiffs, you may try taking the following steps:


canvass your neighborhood. Visit door to door and talk to your own neighbors. This is especially useful if you are dealing with some kind of local environmental problem, such as contaminants in the drinking water. Ask people if they have experienced any problems or symptoms similar to yours.
research the Internet. Run a search that describes the type of problem you are having, to look for reports of other people with similar problems. For example, in a products liability case based on faulty hoverboards, you might search for “hoverboard battery fire.”
check the news media. Be alert to stories on the television news, either locally or nationally. Read newspapers and news magazines for stories about similar issues.
 To have a case treated as a class action, you must satisfy four basic prerequisites. Test your case against these four rules to see if you qualify before proceeding further:the class must be so numerous that it would be impracticable to conduct separate cases or to “join” individual cases together. (“Joining” or “joinder” is a legal term for connecting individual cases into one.)
the important legal and factual issues must be common to all plaintiffs
at least one individual has a case that is “typical of the claims or defenses of the class”
that one individual will fairly represent the interests of everyone in the class.
 If you already have an attorney who has worked for you before, you may ask him or her to handle your case. If your attorney is not ready to handle a class action suit, you may ask for a referral to another attorney who does specialize in that kind of work. You want someone who is experienced, particularly with class action cases.If you are having trouble finding someone through personal connections, you can search online for “class action attorneys” or check with the bar association in your state.For more specific ideas about hiring a good attorney, check out this useful site.
 Review your case with your attorney. Your attorney will help you decide if your case would be better filed on your own or as a class action. Usually, the following factors will lead you to decide to file as a class action rather than individually:the value of the case (if you win) is relatively small for one person
the defendant is a company with significant resources, so that its strength in an individual lawsuit would greatly outweigh your own
you are aware that enough other people exist as possible plaintiffs to justify a large class action case
As an example, a group of Uber drivers filed a class action suit against the company. They are trying to recover mileage costs and trip reimbursement, on behalf of all Uber drivers. Any one driver may not have suffered damage enough to bring suit. But considering all Uber drivers results in a much higher claim amount.,
The lead plaintiff is the only one who, in the end, has the authority to accept or reject a settlement offer.
The lead plaintiff, with the attorneys, is responsible for providing notice to all other plaintiffs.
The lead plaintiff is usually the one to get paid first (after the attorneys) if the case is settled or receives a positive verdict. In some cases, the lead plaintiff receives greater compensation than other plaintiffs.
 Work with your attorney to prepare the complaint. The complaint is the formal statement that begins the case and informs the defendant of your cause of action. In the complaint, you need to identify the facts that demonstrate what the defendant did wrong, recklessly or negligently, to cause some harm to you and the other plaintiffs. In most jurisdictions, you are not required to state a precise recovery amount, but you do need to make a statement that describes the damages you have suffered.


For example, in a class action case against Apple for defective iPhones, the plaintiffs needed to explain that their new iPhones dropped calls without explanation. The complaint would need to allege the cost of the phone and the cost of replacing it. The value of a single cell phone would not ordinarily be enough to file a law suit (except perhaps in small claims court). But the new phones were sold to 1.7 million people in three days, justifying a class action.When news of possible collusion against Presidential candidate Bernie Sanders became public, some supporters began organizing a class action suit on behalf of all financial donors. Any one donor would probably not have given enough money to justify a federal lawsuit. However, pooling all the claims on behalf of all donors amounts to over $200 million., The first major decision in the “life” of a class action case is getting the judge to certify the class. The judge must decide whether the case may proceed as a class action. To reach this decision, the lead plaintiff must prove the four elements of a class action:the class is so numerous that joinder of all members is impracticable;
there are questions of law or fact common to the class;
the claims or defenses of the representative parties are typical of the claims or defenses of the class; and
the representative parties will fairly and adequately protect the interests of the class.
In one pending case, O'Connor v. Uber, a judge initially issued an order certifying the class. However, the company, Uber, then appealed that decision, alleging that the issues are not common enough to be a class action. The appeals court has allowed the appeal to be heard but has not yet entered a ruling on the appeal.The issue of class certification is so important that the parties in this case have spent months just on certification., To have your attorney continue as the attorney of record for the class action, you (or your attorney) need to convince the judge that your attorney is the best suited to continue in the case. Some of the factors that you will need to show the judge are:the work your attorney has done in preparing the case and identifying potential plaintiffs
your attorney’s experience in handling similar class action cases
your attorney’s knowledge and familiarity with the law that will control the case
the resources that your attorney will have available, in comparison to the scope of the case. For example, if you are initiating a nationwide lawsuit against a company like Apple, the judge will expect a large firm, rather than a solo practitioner.
the attorney’s ability to represent all class members fairly and equitably.
 After the case has been certified as a class action, the lead plaintiff is responsible for providing notice of the case to all potential plaintiffs who can be identified. If reasonably possible, you should provide individual notice to specific plaintiffs, as by individual mail. If the class is too large or if identifying individuals by name and address is impossible, you may be permitted to provide notice through publication. This would be a conspicuous notice in a nationwide newspaper, such as The Wall Street Journal, New York Times or USA Today.The purpose of the notice is to allow everyone to join the class or to “opt out.” By opting out, they retain the right to file their own case, if they think they might be able to collect a greater verdict or settlement. Your job as lead plaintiff requires keeping records of the notices that are sent and the identifications of those people who opt out.
In order to contact potential plaintiffs, you will have access to the defendant's company records. Through the court discovery process, you should be able to get purchase and sales records (which will have credit card or billing addresses), mailing addresses for any deliveries, and any other contact information that the company may have collected, such as email addresses or even telephone numbers.
 Once you have a complaint filed and a class certified, the case will proceed as many other litigation matters. For more detailed information about the procedures of the class action litigation, you may want to review Take Part in a Class Action Lawsuit or Win a Class Action Lawsuit.

