 An ideal team should consist of a strategist, soldier, medic, assassin, and a sniper. Assign these roles to people based on their weapons.


You can have more than one of each, because some battles require more people, and you may need to change out overworked warriors.
 You can train them yourself to fit your style of fighting,but at least consider their thoughts when they come to you. They may not be happy with their role or guns, so you have to listen to them.Your standard team should consist of as many people you can.This listing is assuming you have around ten people.


Have two-three Infantry.They are the backbone of your team.Their primary weapon should be either the Retaliator CS-12 or the Rapidstrike CS-18. They should preferably have the Strongarm as their sidearm.
Have two Snipers. They should be armed with a Retaliator with a Longstrike barrel and a bi-pod and perhaps a scope, and should be sniping from some sort of cover.
Have two Scouts. They should be armed with two handguns, preferably Hammershots for dual-wielding purposes. Scouts will go ahead on the battlefield to see what the enemy is doing.
You only need one Melee Warrior.They should be armed with the Nerf Warlock (a Battleaxe),the Nerf Marauder (a long sword),or Shadow Fury and Thunder Fury(twin swords).They might have a Firestrike as their sidearm.
A tank is good as a a battle opener or backup.You only need one Tank, but they should be equipped with heavy armor and at least three weapons.They will need a backpack or holster to carry it in. Good weapons are the Havok Fire EBF-25, Retaliator CS-12, Rampage CS-25, and/or the Strongarm.
The Assassin is the ultimate weapon in terms of hit-and-runs. They are good at stealth, and can spy,or infiltrate the enemy's base to silently take down an enemy warrior.
 Make plans on how you will attack the enemy. Try to take them off-guard, and use the environment to your advantage. For instance, if you are fighting in a meadow, it would not be a good idea to try a Pincher movement since you would be in plain sight fairly quickly.


Think about the possibilities, the outcomes, and the consequences, but don't overthink; you need to be able to act quickly, even if it could end badly.
 You should always have defenders at your base. If it is unguarded, as mentioned earlier, you will find your supplies depleted. A few can be scouts and try to find information about the enemy base.
 When it comes time to attack, make sure you stick to your strategy and that everyone is crystal clear on what to do. If there is a seed of doubt among your team, make sure that you clear it up.
 Be supportive and always have their back. This will make you the ideal team player.
 passes and other stuff for your squad! When using camouflage, try to use certain types for certain terrain; this will increase your invisibility. Uniforms are mostly used for meetings (without battling.), formations, and flat field battles (where there is no places to hide.). Uniforms are good because they act as identification of teammates and enemies. It's also pretty cool when all your friends are dressed in the same outfits; it's pretty intimidating, as well. I.D.'s are useful for basically just the fun of it.
 Plan out your stages of the battle, and ALWAYS have Plan A, B, C, and even D, in the event something goes terribly wrong.
 Safety always comes first, no matter what.

