 The U.S. and Canadian governments do not allow manufacturers to label something 100% organic if that food has been genetically modified or been fed genetically modified feed.You may find that organic food is more expensive and different in appearance from conventional products.


Trusted Organic Certification institutions include the United States Department of Agriculture(USDA), Quality Assurance International(QAI), Oregon Tilth, and California Certified Organic Farmers(CCOF). Look for their mark of approval on the label of the product.
Also, just because something says "organic," it does not mean that it doesn't contain GMOs. In fact, it can still contain up to 30% GMOs, so be sure the label says 100% organic. Eggs labeled "free-range," "natural," or "cage-free" are not necessarily GMO free; look for eggs that are 100% organic.;
, Price lookup (PLU) codes can be found on the stickers that are on your produce. These codes can be used to identify foods have been genetically engineered or modified.If it is a 4-digit number, the food is conventionally produced. This food may or may not be genetically modified.
If it is a 5-digit number beginning with an 8, it is GM. However, do not trust that GE foods will have a PLU identifying it as such, because PLU labeling is optional.
If it is a 5-digit number beginning with a 9, it is organic and is not genetically modified, Most cattle in the U.S. are grass-fed but spend the last portion of their lives in feedlots in which they may be given GM corn, the purpose of which is to increase intramuscular fat and marbling. If you're looking to stay away from GMOs, make sure the cattle were 100% grass-fed or pasture-fed (sometimes referred to as grass-finished or pasture-finished).Some meats like pork and chicken cannot be 100% grassfed. In those instances, look for meat that is labeled 100% certified organic.You should also buy wild caught fish instead of farm raised fish. Farm raised fish are fed with genetically modified grains.
 It was once rare to find products labeled as such, but thanks to organizations such as the Non-GMO Project,they are becoming more common. You can also research websites that list companies and foods that do not use genetically modified foods, but be aware that some information is often incomplete, and conflicting interests may not be declared.
 Although more than half of all GM foods are produced in the U.S.,most of it comes from large industrial farms. By shopping at farmers' markets, signing up for a subscription from a local Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) farm, or patronizing a local co-op, you may be able to avoid GM products and possibly save money at the same time.


Shopping locally may also give you the opportunity to speak to the farmer and find out how he or she feels about GMOs and whether or not they use them in their own operation.
Buying local food does not guarantee that you will be avoiding GMOs. Many local farmers use genetically modified seeds., Favor foods that you can cook and prepare yourself, rather than foods that are processed or prepared (e.g., anything that comes in a box or a bag, including fast food). What you lose in convenience, you may recover in money saved and satisfaction gained, as well as increased peace of mind. Try cooking a meal from scratch once or twice a week; you may enjoy it and decide to do it more often., If you grow your own food, you buy seeds that have not been genetically modified. This way, you know exactly what was grown and what went into growing it.


Many websites sell non-GMO seeds.You can visit Seed Saversor Seeds Nowto find non-GMO seeds.

