 Once your body is positioned correctly, you are ready to play the flute. Blow a steady, strong stream of air through your embouchure into one of the pan flute’s tubes.


Make minor adjustments to your embouchure and the flute’s positioning so that you achieve the sound you want.
 When you blow air into the flute, you can alter the resulting sound by moving your tongue to pronounce different consonant letter sounds. The primary letter sound you use when playing a pan flute is a T sound. You can also make B, P, or D sounds to subtly change the pan flute sound., A musical scale has full notes (such as C, B, A) and half-notes (such as C sharp, E flat, and so on). The tubes on a pan flute produce full notes, but you can use different playing techniques to achieve half-notes and therefore expand the repertoire of music you can play. To play half-notes, try one of these techniques:



Tilt the flute: Tilt the bottom of the pan flute away from you so that your lower lip covers part of the tube opening.Draw the flute down slightly against your lip at the same time.

Retract your jaw: You can also retract your jaw to play half-notes. Pull your chin backwards while directing air into one of the tubes., Bending notes are a way to add musicality and depth to your playing. A bent note is one sound that starts as a flat note sound and moves upward to land on the correct note, or a sharp note sound and moves downward to land on the correct note. To bend a note:


Tilt flute away from your body to bend a note downward. Keep the airflow constant., Staccato notes are short, almost sharp sounding notes. These are helpful especially when you are playing fast music. To play a staccato note, pronounce a sharp T sound, bringing your tongue to touch the back of your front teeth quickly., A vibrato is a wavering sound that adds dimension to your playing. Change the strength of the air flow into a tube from strong to weak over and over to add a vibrato, or wavering, sound., You can also get a vibrato sound by moving the pan flute towards and away from your mouth just a slight distance. Do this quickly while keeping the air flow consistent and strong., Fluttering your tongue will create a trilling sound when you play. To do this, vibrate your tongue like a purr or a rolling R. Maintain a strong stream of air across the tube of the pipe.