 Don't hesitate to escalate the situation if a customer hasn't paid on time despite your best efforts with the contract. The challenge is to get paid without jeopardizing your future relationship with the customer.
 Many times a client will ask, "Do you need a check now?" and the business owner says, "No, that's okay, we'll get it at the end." Don't do this! If the customer is happy to pay up front - let him!

, Hold back enough so that they will need to pay you before you deliver the finished job. It is not unprofessional for you to do so, though many business owners consider this a "low-rent" practice. It's not low-rent - it does not telegraph to your clients that you cannot afford to await payment. Rather it lets them know that you are a professional accustomed to being paid for your work in a timely manner.


Just say something like, "Hey, Mr. Jones, I have your job all ready to deliver. Can you have a check ready for me if I swing by around 3 PM?. The balance due is $470.78."

, This should start the very next day after your payment was due. Obviously, you should try to get paid before this need arises. However, sometimes, you have a lapse in judgment, or you're lulled into a sense of security by a client you've had no problems with in the past. Once your client realizes your payment policies are lax, s/he will opportunistically attempt to exploit it.


Remember - every minute that you are working to get paid is a minute that (A) you are working a second time for money you've already earned and (B) you are not working on a new job, which still needs to be finished on time.
 Don't give friends, friends of friends or family any special treatment. If anything, treat them with even less trust than a stranger - they often attempt to take advantage of your relationship. If the client has not paid you by your due date, call him immediately and ask for payment. If you are put off till the next day, call again the very next morning.
 Printing a warning on the bottom of your invoices is fine, but if you fail to follow it up, you won't ever be taken seriously. For customers who are consistently late in paying, contact the credit agencies, Experian, TRW, etc., and report late-payers if the payment is more than 30 days late. Call the client first, and let them know that you're terribly sorry to do it, but unless you receive their payment before the 30 day deadline, you will have to report it to the credit agencies, thus damaging their credit. It's a powerful incentive to pay.

