 This is going to set off such a big explosion that you’re going to want to be outdoors and have lots of space. This volcano experiment should only be conducted by adults, though kids will have lots of fun watching!


Seriously, guys, it’s a bit dangerous. Be careful.
 This experiment will require at least two people, three would be better. Make sure that the people running the experiment have as much of their skin covered as possible and that their clothing is not overly loose.

This experiment uses liquid nitrogen, which will not feel good on your skin. Be safe.
Also, goggles are a good idea. If you’re one of the lucky people setting off the explosion, wear goggles.
 Don’t get a little can. Get one of those huge, sturdy cans that janitors use. A low quality can will simply crack and ruin the experiment, so it is important to get a good one. The plastic should be thick and the seams strong. Place the garbage can outside on a cement, stone, or brick surface.
 Fill the can with water until around the 80% mark. You can color the water if you want to. Using Kool Aid will probably work best.


You can also stick some ping pong balls in there if you want to mimic falling boulders and other volcanic debris. If doing this, put in slightly less water (maybe 70-75%).
 Get a 32oz (1L) plastic soda bottle and attach two bricks to either side of it using duct tape.


The bottom of the brick should be even with the bottom of the bottle.
 Set the bottle contraption on the ground and have a helper hold a funnel just over the top of the bottle. Have another helper standing ready with the bottle cap to seal the bottle once you’ve filled it. Fill the bottle with about 2" (5cm) of liquid nitrogen. (The amount is inexact and does not matter too much).
 The cap-holding helper should quickly cap the bottle tightly. You have less than five seconds to get the bottle capped and in the garbage can.
 Drop the bottle into the center of the can and then get out of the way. The explosion will occur in about 15-30 seconds.
 Make sure everyone is standing at least 30 feet (9.1 m) away. More is preferable. The explosion is really big. This explosion mimics what is called a Plinian Eruption, a particular type of volcanic eruption often associated with Mt. St. Helens or ancient Vesuvius. The water will launch into the air and rain down


Wait at least two full minutes before assuming the experiment has gone wrong. Approach very carefully, wearing safety equipment. If it does not work, the cap was probably put on incorrectly.