 Acquiring direct work experience following a traditional degree is preferable to any online certification program. Take web design as an example: If you already have coding skills that allow you to build websites and applications, the best way to demonstrate your talents is by using them. In fact, simply designing web content is the best way to learn more about developing the web. Whenever you’re unsure of how to accomplish a certain task, online forums are usually the best ways to learn how.If you are entirely new to web development, online certification programs can help bring you up to speed on standard industry knowledge. However, if you're able to begin putting skills into practice, do this instead of spending time pursing certification.
 There are several certification programs that teach you about the fundamentals of E-commerce. If your knowledge and skills are already specialized in web design, marketing, or information technology, get certified in other aspects of the E-commerce industry. The Institute of Certified E-Commerce Consultants (CEC) is a leading program offering certification in E-commerce project management and more specific topics, like marketing, risk assessment, and quality management.If you have 2 years of E-commerce related experience, you may be able to waive certain requirements for admission to the CEC’s certification programs. Send a resume or inquiry to info@icecc.com to find out if you can apply immediately. If you don’t have experience, you’ll need a degree from an accredited education institution with relevance to business and/or information systems.Ask to speak with someone who has completed the certifications you’re considering to see if the content will actually help you learn new skills.
 Certified Internet Web Professional (CIW) offers another reputable option for certification in E-commerce related skills. CIW certification classes include content on all components of the industry, including web design and development, administration, networking, databases, and security.You can also purchase self-directed study guides with or without exams that provide you with formal certification. Prices start at $249. Most exams, if purchased separately, cost $150.
Certification series, which include online courseware, range in cost from around $200 to $600 and lead to certification upon completion.
Instructor-led online classes are also available. Note, however, that instructors are often not identified. Contact CIW directly for pricing, but be sure the courses cover content you are not familiar with.
 Apprenticeships can be a great way to both learn and get alongside work experience. While you may be able to find an E-commerce apprenticeship yourself by contacting companies directly, CIW registered apprenticeships involve working with a mentor, as well as taking classes, often online. By completing a registered apprenticeship, you’ll acquire on-the-job learning and demonstrable skills. Further, CIW apprenticeships allow you to earn formal certifications during and on completion of an apprenticeship.If interested in an apprenticeship, reach out to companies in your area that may be willing to hire you in an entry-level position. Convey your desire to learn from the experience, and be sure to mention any skills you already possess. Though you will not receive certification for undertaking a private apprenticeship, you will gain valuable experience within the field.
Contact the CIW directly through the provided form on their website for further information about registered apprenticeships, including the associated costs.

