 It is important to know exactly what is being asked of you when babysitting. It is okay to decline a job if you don’t feel capable of handling it safely. Before you accept a job make sure you know the following:The number of kids you will be looking after and their ages.
How long you will be babysitting.
If the children have any disabilities or require special needs.
If the children are sick or require any medical attention.
 You should negotiate your pay in advance, in order to ensure you are compensated appropriately. Payment will vary from job to job but you should have a base understanding of what you consider appropriate for your time.To get a better understanding of the going rate for babysitting you can ask friends who also babysit or ask a local employment agency.
The average hourly rate for babysitting in the US is $12.75/hr. This rate can vary depending on geographic location, the number of children being cared for, and the years of experience of the babysitter., Before babysitting make sure you have contact information for the parents, a secondary emergency contact, as well as important emergency numbers readily available. You should also be aware of any relevant medical information about the children.For example, do they have any allergies or special dietary requirements. They may need to carry an EpiPen with them for bee stings or other allergies.
You should also know where to find things in the house. For example, you should know where a first aid kit is located.
 It is important to know the timeline and structure of the children’s daily routine while you are babysitting them. Children like and respond well to routine and structure. You should try to follow their structure for mealtimes, naps, baths, and bedtime.You may also want to be aware of other behaviours, interests, or routines specific to the child you are babysitting. For example, is there a certain toy or blanket that the child needs to have in order to go to sleep?
Write down these details so that you can refer back to them if necessary.
 You should be aware of and enforce any rules set by the parents. This could include how much computer or screen time the child is allowed to have at night, the child's set bedtime, the types of snacks and treats that are permitted, etc.You should also learn about their preferred discipline tactics. Ask ahead of time if they have tips or certain strategies that their child responds well to, such as a time out, if the child is misbehaving.

