 Regardless of what type of cereal you purchase for your baby, it's important to make sure that you follow the mixing instructions correctly. This will help ensure your baby is getting the right amount of cereal.


Each infant cereal will have specific instructions listed on the actual product. Before you purchase a product, make sure you read over the instructions.
If you need to cook or heat the cereal, make sure to follow the directions to ensure the cereal is prepared correctly. Always allow a cereal to come down to room temperature before feeding it to your child.
The cereal should be mixed until it's a thin and quite liquid consistency. You may need to add more milk or formula to get it to the right consistency., When preparing an infant or baby cereal, you'll need to mix the dry cereal with a liquid. Take advantage of this opportunity to add more nutrition to your baby's cereal.


Most cereals will tell you to mix with breast milk or formula. This helps increase the nutrient content (especially in terms of protein and fat) of the cereal. It's essential that you do this step.
You can mix your infant cereal with water if you do not have any breast milk or formula available to you.However, try to limit how often you do this.
 Like most baby foods, you do not want to keep prepared cereals long. Feeding your child leftovers can put them in danger of getting sick.You need to be extra careful with how long you store uneaten baby cereals. Babies and infants are the most susceptible to foodborne illness since their immune systems are still immature.
If you make extra baby cereal, only put a few tablespoons into a bowl. Do not feed your child from the larger serving. Saliva can contaminate the cereal if you were to store it the refrigerator.
Throw out any extra cereal your child didn't consume from their pre-portioned serving. In addition, only keep baby cereal for 24 hrs.
 All children tolerate foods at different stages and at different times. As you and your child get the hang of eating solids, you'll notice your child becomes much better at eating.


Children are great at knowing when they are hungry, when they're not and when they want more food. Make sure to follow your child's hunger and satisfaction cues.
A baby may turn away his head or not open his lips if he doesn't want any solids or doesn't want anymore of the cereal.Do not try to force feed a child who doesn't want cereal. Even if your child only eats a bite or two, that's OK. There will be other opportunities to try solid foods.

