


The weather in New York City during the month of March is still quite chilly. The average high in March is only 9 degrees Celsius (49 degrees Fahrenheit) with an average low of -2 degrees Celsius (29 degrees Fahrenheit).
If you plan to spend time at outdoor attractions, you will need to pack warm clothes and gloves.;
, Transportation in New York can be intimidating and the cost of using a cab service for your entire trip may be expensive. Fortunately, the New York City Mass Transit Authority has a comprehensive and affordable subway system.
 Several hotels in each area of the city are relatively inexpensive and comfortable. From uptown to Brooklyn, there are deals to be found everywhere. Before booking your room, be sure to call the hotel directly and ask for their best rate and then compare that to online travel sites. Which will have the best rate is often determined by when you are searching and how far in advance you are attempting to book your room.
 A New York City vacation is a great time to explore art, history, and culture in one of the many museums located within the city. While there are dozens of museums to explore, 4 of the most popular are the Guggenheim Museum, the American Museum of Natural History, the Museum of Modern Art, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.



The Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island have welcomed generations of immigrants to America and are still closely associated with the city.
Rockefeller Center, the Empire State Building, Central Park, Madison Square Garden and Times Square are featured in books, television shows, and movies and are well known throughout the world.
The World Trade Center, recognized for a sadder reason, is still a destination many people wish to visit and pay their respects. The area is accessible as the memorial and new structures are constructed.
If you want a taste of the old world, both China Town and Little Italy are fun to explore.



You can visit 1 of the popular Broadway shows, or explore 1 of the off Broadway productions. There are a variety of musicals, comedies, and dramatic shows from which to choose.
If you find you want even more theatrical action, there are often special events such as Theatre District Walking Tours and behind the scenes tours and workshops.
If you want to meet one of the performers, locate one of the stage doors and wait outside immediately following the conclusion of the play. Most actors are approachable and willing to sign playbills and have a photograph taken with fans, although you may have to wait for up to a half hour for them to exit.

