 If your dog’s hearing fades, you will need to rely on visual symbols to convey meaning to your dog. Most trained dogs have already picked up a number of visual cues, such as your body language or slight hand gestures. In fact, you may find that your dog already responds to certain visual cues without you actively training them to do it. However, if you initially trained your dog to respond to verbal commands like “sit” and “stay,” try incorporating simple hand gestures. For example, if you want your dog to sit, motion down with your hand.You can also teach your dog some simple sign language to help it recognize its cues. Instead of verbal cues, you can train your dog to respond to sign language cues that you give.You can also utilize things like flashlights or laser pointers to direct a dog in low-light settings. However, be sure not to shine the laser in your dog’s eyes.
You may need to do some retraining to get your dog to respond to these new visual cues.
 Some dogs with hearing impairments can still hear certain pitches. Your dog may be able to hear you if you raise or lower the tone of your voice. Practice using different pitches when you give your dog commands and see which works best., A vibration, as opposed to a shock collar, sits around your dog’s neck and gives it gentle vibrations when you press a remote button. With some training, you can get your hard of hearing older dog to respond to the vibrations in the collar. If your dog still has some of its hearing, vibrate the collar while giving the verbal cue. Over time, it will respond to the vibration alone.Be sure to avoid purchasing a collar that shocks and vibrates. You do not want to hurt your dog accidentally during training.
 Whether you decide to use hand signals, an altered pitch, or a vibration collar, you will need to train your dog to associate the new signal with the action. Use positive reinforcement, such as a treat or petting, to help your dog learn the new cue.Because it will not be able to hear the tone of your voice, you will need to rely on treats and petting to reward your dog’s good behavior. Give your dog some food and plenty of physical affection when it performs its tricks correctly.

