 Although the prosecutor does not have to produce a body, he or she does need to convince the jury that the victim has died. Often, this is not difficult since finding a dead body is what triggers the investigation and prosecution.


The prosecutor typically has the state’s coroner testify as to time and method of death. For example, a coroner would offer an expert opinion that the bullet in the victim’s chest killed him, not a pre-existing illness.
 A critical piece of evidence in murder trials is the murder weapon. People are often killed by guns, knives, or vehicles. These weapons help link the defendant to the victim. If the defendant’s fingerprints are on a knife, and the knife killed the victim, then the state has presented a strong connection between the defendant and the victim’s death.
 To convict for murder, the jury has to be convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant was the cause (or one of the causes) of the victim’s death. Accordingly, prosecutors will often use witnesses to place the defendant at the crime scene.


They can also use physical evidence to place the defendant at the scene, such as fingerprints, DNA, or hairs.
Eyewitness testimony of someone killing another person is called “direct” evidence, whereas DNA, fingerprints, and hair is commonly called “circumstantial.”No greater weight is afforded to “direct” evidence than to “circumstantial” evidence. Although defense attorneys like to say the case against their client is “only circumstantial,” circumstantial evidence is often more powerful than “direct” evidence, because witnesses can often be confused.
 If a defendant is charged with first degree murder, then the state must show that the defendant acted with the specific intent to kill and after deliberation.


There are many ways to prove specific intent, which will depend on the facts of the case. Often, the prosecutor can prove the specific intent to kill simply from the act.For example, a gunshot to the head indicates, by itself, a specific intent to kill. Stabbing someone repeatedly in the chest and back also indicates an intent to kill.
To prove deliberation, a prosecutor can show that the defendant took the time to purchase the murder weapon, create an excuse to visit the victim, sneak the weapon into the house, and then wait for the victim to expose his or her back to the defendant. All of these actions show reflection and planning. The killing is not spontaneous, as it is with second degree murder.
 A defendant might claim that the killing was in self-defense. When a defendant raises self-defense as a justification for the killing, he or she must present some evidence to support it. Nevertheless, the prosecutor must disprove that the killing was justified.Disproving self-defense is, again, a fact-specific inquiry. The defendant might stab the victim and claim that she feared for her life. However, if she stabbed him 12 times, all in the back, then evidence tends to disprove self-defense, as the defendant could have fled at any time.

