 Also try shorter periods between feedings. Sometimes if the baby isn’t as hungry, she will eat more slowly, making it less likely that she will get air in with the milk. Air bubbles are often a culprit of colic, and slower feedings more often can help alleviate them., Be mindful of your eating habits and avoid substances in your food that can be excreted through your milk and adversely affect your baby's stomach. Stay away from anything that can cause bloating and gas.. You might also want to try avoiding the following foods to see if it helps:Caffeine
Alcohol
Dairy products
Cabbage
Beans
Peas
Green beans
Mushrooms
Soy
Spicy foods
Oranges
Strawberries
Cauliflower

, See if you can identify what might have caused the problem. If it hurts your stomach, chances are it will also hurt your baby’s.
 Whether you breastfeed or use a bottle, there is a possibility in both methods for your baby to get air bubbles in his stomach, causing discomfort. Closely observe your baby when her is feeding to see if her is feeding properly.Make sure your baby is making a tight seal with his lips and not swallowing air.
Swallowing air can cause gas and abdominal pain.
If you think your baby's bottle is producing a lot of air, try changing the nipple, with a hole that has a size appropriate for your baby. Or try different types of bottles. The bottles with the bag inside may cause the baby to swallow less air.
Make sure to keep your baby upright when feeding, and don't allow a baby to take a bottle in bed or when lying down.
 This should happen each time you feed your infant. Burp your baby to allow air to escape from her stomach and relieve pressure in the stomach. You can do this by lifting your baby and gently but firmly tapping her on the back., It might be an ingredient in the formula that is affecting your baby’s stomach. As with breastmilk, different babies react differently to ingredients, and some of those in formula may cause your baby to become bloated or gassy.


Talk to your doctor before changing formulas, as most of the time the formula is not the problem.
 It might be something different — with babies it’s so difficult to tell what might be bothering them. Your pediatrician should have some ideas about what might be ailing your baby.

