 A decongestant usually contains a cocktail of drugs to treat the multiple symptoms associated with congestion. In most cases, they are combined with an analgesic such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin to relieve headaches and sinus pain. These can be purchased over-the-counter at a drug store.Many decongestants such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine narrow the blood vessels to clear out nasal congestion. This also increases blood pressure. Therefore, proceed with caution if you already have high blood pressure.
This product can be found in tablets, capsules, liquids, and syrups.
Make sure to read the label carefully or talk to a doctor before taking a decongestant because serious side effects can occur in babies, pregnant women, and people with allergies. Take the correct dosage and do not abuse the medication.;
, Saline nasal drops are effective, safe, and non-irritating. Saline (salt water) helps to liquefy mucous secretions that block the sinuses and reduce the chance that the mucus will crust along the sinus cavity. Nasal drops (or sprays) will moisten the mucous membranes of the nasal sinuses and can be purchased over-the-counter at a drug store.It is recommended to take saline drops after the use of a decongestant.
Taking saline nasal drops will help you avoid the “rebound effect” often associated with obsessively taking a decongestant nasal spray.
 Taken as a lozenge or syrup, zinc has shown to reduce the length of a cold by up to one full day if taken during the onset of symptoms. Zinc lozenges and syrups can be purchased over-the-counter at a drug store.Zinc prevents the rhinovirus from multiplying and prevents it from lodging in the mucous membranes of the throat and nose. The rhinovirus is the source of most common colds.
Despite these initial findings, there is still not enough evidence that zinc has the impact on reducing head congestion as previously advertised. Zinc will boost the immune system against the virus but will have little influence on congestion.
Side effects usually include nausea, bad aftertaste, and the possibility of the loss of smell.

