, If leveling becomes too tedious, or if you are in a rush, you can purchase an official character boost directly to level 90 with real-world currency. Level 90 character boosts can be bought from the in-game store, so log onto any character then open up the menu by pressing the Escape key., The character boost is located under the Services tab, so head there., Click on the option “Level 90 Character Boost - $60.” Once you are certain you want to buy the boost, click on the “Buy Now” button and complete the confirmation.

The credit card you have on file for your subscription will be charged $60 plus any applicable taxes.
At the time of publishing this article, the price for a Level 90 boost is currently US$60.
 After logging out, you will see the character selection screen with a button that says 90., Click on the button to choose which character you want to apply the level 90 boost on.

You can boost any character that is currently level 1–89. Boosted characters receive bags, a small amount of gold, and basic armor and weapons.
If the character you boost is level 60 or higher, you will also get 600 skill in two primary professions.
If you have already selected two primary professions on your level 60 or higher Warlock, you will get 600 skill in those professions after boosting. If you haven’t selected any primary professions yet, but are boosting a Warlock level 60 or higher, you will get 600 skill in Enchanting and Tailoring.
Characters boosted from 60 also receive 600 skill in First Aid.
 After you select the Warlock character you want to boost, you will also be asked which specialization you want to choose before you log on. You can choose either Affliction, Destruction, or Demonology.

This choice will determine which spells and armor you have in the boosted character starting zone. Don’t worry too much about this, as you can always change your specialization later, and all Warlock specializations will give you similar armor, unlike some other classes that use vastly different armor for different specializations.
 Once you log into a character after boosting it, you will start out in a special zone. While in the boosted starter zone, and though your character is boosted to level 90, it will not have full access to all of its level 90 abilities yet.,

The starting zones are designed to be a tutorial to help you learn how to play your boosted level 90 character. Many of the quests are designed to guide you through learning the basics of your class.
You will not be able to fly on a flying mount until you have finished the beginning quests in the boosted starter zone. After completing these quests, you will automatically learn to ride flying mounts.

