 It can be tempting to ask for a ride, take a cab, or ride the bus to classes or social events; however, walking is great for exercise and can help keep excess pounds off. Try to walk to events when possible. This will force you to get a little extra exercise in each day.Instead of driving to the grocery store, walk. You'll burn a lot of calories carrying bags of food home with you.
 College campuses have many clubs and organizations students can join. Try joining a club centered around sports or athletics. You'll be more likely to exercise regularly if you're making new friends in the process. Sign up for a swimming team, a baseball league, or another club that revolves around physical activity., Tiny alterations can often result in keeping weight off. Embracing a more active lifestyle is a good way to avoid the freshman 15. Try to make small changes to incorporate more physical activity into your daily routine.


When in your dorm, a lecture hall, or at your apartment, take the elevator over the stairs.Try to exercise while watching television. If you love watching The Daily Show each night after class, do some sit-ups or crunches during the episode.Exercise can help reduce stress and can be a positive way to cope with the demands of college. Exercise releases feel-good chemicals called endorphins, it can help you sleep better, can help with anxiety and depression, increase self-confidence, and even be used as a form of meditation to forget the worries of the day., If your campus has a gym or fitness center, take advantage of that. While many people neglect regular exercise in college, college is actually a great time to get active and make exercise a habit. As campus fitness centers, gyms, and pools are usually free to students, you won't have to worry about paying gym fees in order to use top-notch equipment. Try to make time each week to hit the campus gym to work out.Aim for 75 minutes of intense aerobic activity a week or 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity. This is ideal when it comes to maintaining a healthy weight.