 The VIN number will consist of a 17-digit alpha-numeric code engraved on a badge on the upper left side of the dash. It will be visible from either inside the car or from outside the car through the windshield. The VIN can also be found on the driver's side doorjamb sticker.


Determine the World Manufacturer Identifier (WMI). This consists of the first 3 characters of the VIN. Character 1 denotes the manufacturer. Character 2 denotes the country of manufacture. Character 3 denotes the division of the company that manufactured the car.
Identify the Vehicle Descriptor Section (VDS). The VDS consists of characters 4 through 9 of the VIN. It defines the model, body type, restraint system, transmission type, and engine type of the car. Character 9 is a "check" digit generated using a formula developed by the Department of Transportation to determine invalid VIN numbers.
Determine the Vehicle Identifier Section (VIS). This consists of characters 10 through 17 of the VIN. Character 10 indicates the model year. Character 11 indicates the plant of manufacture. Characters 12 through 17 give the production sequence number. This is the number assigned to the car on the assembly line.;
, Access the definitions for these codes from the National Highway Transportation and Safety Administration (NHTSA). Each manufacturer defines the meanings of the characters in the VIN number and submits this definition to the NHTSA for approval.
 Make sure that it substantially is the vehicle type determined by the World Manufacturer Identifier and the Vehicle Descriptor Section.
 Provide the VIN to 1 of several car history retrieval services available on the Internet. For a fee, which will vary from provider to provider, you can get a detailed report about the history of the vehicle.


Review VIN report details. The report may include information about multiple owners, major accidents, mileage rollback, frame damage, flood damage, branded a lemon, last reported mileage, recall information and warranty information.

