 Have you ever had someone tell you that a certain color looks great with your eyes? The color of your clothes and jewelry can do a lot to make your eyes stand out. Figure out which items in your wardrobe enhance your features, and wear them when you want your eyes to look especially sexy.


Try colors that are the opposite color of your eyes on the color wheel. For example, if you have green eyes, red will make them pop.
Or choose colors that are in the same color family as your eyes to enhance them. For example, gold makes brown eyes look warm and inviting, and purple makes black eyes sparkle.
 When your eyes are puffy, they look smaller than normal, and you might appear to be tired or ill. If you tend to wake up with puffy eyes and dark circles, there are measures you can take to make your eyes look bright and pretty again.


Put cold teabags or cucumbers on your eyes. It will help the puffiness go down.
Try rubbing ice cubes wrapped in a dishtowel over your eyes for a few moments.
Moisturize around your eyes to keep the skin supple.
 Your dietary habits have a huge effect on your eye appearance. First and foremost, stay hydrated so your eyes never look dry and irritated. You should also be eating plenty of vitamin-rich fruits and vegetables in order to keep your eyes healthy and bright. Carrots, sweet potatoes and mangoes, which are full of vitamin A, are especially good for your eyes.


On the other hand, avoid drinking too much alcohol or coffee, since these beverages are dehydrating and can make your eyes look puffy.
Same goes for very salty foods.
 When it comes to having sexy eyes, nothing helps like beauty sleep. Aim to get eight hours of sleep every night so you wake up fresh and bright. Your body needs this time to renew itself, and when you don't get sleep, your eyes the first place to show your exhaustion.


For the times when staying caught up on sleep is impossible, use eye drops to help your eyes feel fresh.
If you're sleep-deprived, don't make matters worse by being dehydrated, too; remember to drink plenty of water to brighten your eyes.

