 Hosting a summer party is a great way to relax with your friends and create a memory to last a lifetime. Choose a date and time to have your party, and then invite all of your friends to attend. Send the invitations at least a week before the party so that everyone has time to free their schedule up for your awesome party. Make sure to tell your friends important details about the party on the invitation. For example, tell people to wear or bring their swim suits if you’re having a pool party or water activities.Use an online invitation company that sends invites through email. This is one of the best ways to send invites online because the invitation only goes to the people you personally invite, and you can keep track of who has seen the invitation and who is coming to the party. There are many fun designs to choose from to make your invitation unique to your party.
Invite friends by sending them an invitation on social media. This is a great way to invite people to a party because it’s one of the most used forms of communication today, but be careful, it’s easy for people to share your personal information on social media. If a friend shares the details about your party, you might end up with more people coming than you wanted.
Send an invitation in the mail. This is a great way to send an invitation in a more personable way. It also gives your friends an actual invitation to hang up on a bulletin board or their refrigerator to remind them of the party.
 You will want to have some activities planned to keep your party guests entertained at your party. You can plan to have activities that involve the entire party at once, or have many different activities set up for party guests to participate in if they want to.


Things like ping pong, corn hole, frisbee throwing, sidewalk chalk, bubbles, slip-n-slide, and hula hooping are great activities to have out for guests to participate in if they would like to.
Water gun or balloon fights, relay races, volleyball, freeze dance, the limbo, and an outdoor olympics are great activities to have the entire party participate in.
Consider having a photo booth set up for your guests to dress up in fun costumes and take silly pictures of themselves. You can easily make one out of a cardboard box.
 A summer party needs to have lots of delicious food and drinks to keep the party guests happy. Consider what time you’re having your party at to decide how much food to serve. Parties that happen in between meal times can have just snack food out, but parties that occur over lunch or dinner time should have more main dishes available.


Finger foods like a veggie tray, fruit kebabs, chips and dip, trail mix, crackers, popcorn, pretzels, and pigs in a blanket are great options for snacks at a party.
For a main dish, consider having hotdogs, hamburgers, chicken wings, sandwiches, or chicken fingers for your party.
 Party decorations make the atmosphere festive and fun and will put a smile on your guests’ faces. Think about having a theme for your party to create a focus for your decorations. Put down colored table clothes where you’ll serve the food, decorate the door the guests will enter, and hand streamers around to add instant fun to your party.Having a luau theme is a popular choice for summer, and many party stores sell luau themed decorations during summer time.
Beach balls can be an inexpensive way to add lots of color to your party, and they can also provide some fun for your guests as well!

