 The game link or shortcut can be accessed from your Facebook News Feed page under the Apps section. Click on the link for the game to load it.;
, After the game loads, you will be brought to the main game map, with all the levels. At the top of this game map are some menu items, namely “Play With Friends,” lives, Gold Bars, and Coins.
 You can see your available Coins from the Coins menu on the header. There’s a picture of a coin engraved with a crown.
 You can earn additional coins for inviting your Facebook friends to play the game.


From the header, click the “Play With Friends” button. A window will appear with the list of your Facebook friends.
Select the ones you’d like to invite by ticking on their names and then clicking the Invite button.
You will be rewarded with 3,000 Coins for each friend.
 Click on the plus sign beside the Coins menu. A window for “Buy extra coins” will appear. Five coin packages are being offered, all of which you can purchase using Gold Bars. The minimum lot is 10,000 Coins for 9 Gold Bars, while the maximum lot is 1,000,000 Coins for 359 Gold Bars.


Tick the package you’d like to buy and click the “Buy” button to purchase it. Once done, your Gold Bars will be reduced and your Coins will be increased accordingly.
 Continue playing and move up on your game and you will be awarded with additional coins when you reach certain level milestones.
 The game link or shortcut can be accessed from your Facebook News Feed page under the Apps section. Click on the link for the game to load it.
 After the game loads, you will be brought to the main game map, with all the levels. At the top of this game map are some menu items, namely “Play With Friends,” lives, Gold Bars, and Coins.
 You can see your available Coins from the Coins menu on the header. There’s a picture of a coin engraved with a crown.
 From the game map, select the level you want to play by clicking on it. A pre-game window will appear indicating the number of points needed to beat the level.


Below the number of points are some items you can equip to help you complete the level. The first section is for Magic Scrolls, and the other section is for Magic Potions.
The Magic Potions can be bought with Coins. The cost is indicated with each item. Click on the Magic Potions you want to use for the level to buy a set of it using your Coins.
Click the “Play” button to continue.
 You will start the level equipped with the Magic Potion you bought.