 Specify your name and contact information. Indicate whether you are requesting a group or private reading, and write a message explaining your situation or request.


Note that this is the preferred method of contact.
The form can be found at: http://www.theresacaputo.com/contact/

Fill out the form as completely as possible. It asks for your first name, last name, e-mail address, phone number, city, and state. Including more contact information improves the likelihood of hearing back from Theresa Caputo or members of the show's staff.
Be specific when requesting a reading. Share a bit of your story. If you are a skeptic or would like to request a reading for a skeptic, mention that fact. Similarly, if you have a specific reason for contacting her or are hoping she might be able to get in touch with someone in particular, let her know.
You may expect that, as a medium, she should be able to know any important details without being told, but this is not necessarily the case.
Sharing your story may also help to draw her interest, improving your chances of having her accept your request.;
, If you prefer using snail mail, or if your story is too long to explain using a contact form, send Theresa Caputo a letter including your story, name, and a method of contact.


The address is: Theresa Caputo, PO Box 490, Hicksville, NY 11802.Include the same information you would indicate on the contact form. Write out your first and last name and some basic contact information. Your chances of getting a response back increase if you include an e-mail address and phone number, but you can also include your mailing address as a back-up form of contact.
Specify whether or not you are requesting a group or private reading, and provide, at minimum, a few basic details about why you want Theresa Caputo to perform a reading for you.
 The Long Island Medium usually performs readings on audience members when she goes on tour. Being in the audience may make you eligible for such a reading.


Note that attending one of Theresa Caputo's tour events does not guarantee that a reading will be performed. Typically, she will choose to do readings only for those who catch her attention, and there is no set of variables that you can control in order to make that happen.
You can find out about tour dates by checking her website or by signing up for tour updates.Ticket prices range from $45 to $140., Contacting Long Island Medium does not guarantee that you will be able to schedule a reading, and even if you do schedule a reading, it may not be immediate.


Reports suggest that there is a backlog of reading requests due to the popularity of the show. It may take two years or more before Theresa Caputo is able to conduct a reading for you.While the Long Island Medium website and Theresa Caputo's website do not indicate official costs, reports suggest that a 30-minute session can cost around $400 if held locally. If she needs to travel a significant distance, this cost could increase.

