 Make sure you have a plan to both help reassure you when the situation comes to a head and something you can fall back on if needed.


If you don’t know much about stress, you can educate yourself about the feeling.Stress often happens due to thoughts that you cannot deal with what is happening. Bad thoughts that may lead to stress are, “I can’t do this. I don’t have enough time. This is too much!”
Use your problem solving skills. Identify possible solutions to your issue that is causing you stress.When feeling stressed, use the STOPP method: stop and take a step back, take a breath, observe (what are you thinking and feeling?), pull back (look at the situation as an outside observer), and practice what works.;
, Stress is normal, especially for people at this age where everything seems to be crashing in. It’s confusing and difficult, but you can get through this. Use coping skills that help you feel positive emotions such as happiness or excitement.Distract yourself. Distraction can be a helpful way to cope with stress. It gets your mind off of what you are worrying about and gets you to focus on something else.Try playing a game on your phone. There are many that are available for free (such as Candy Crush).
Go on social media (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, SnapChat, etc) for a few minutes, but don't spend too much time focused on it. If you start comparing yourself to others or have a negative conversation with someone, stop yourself and do something else that makes you happy.
Text message a friend and set up a time to hang out.
Get out in nature. Being near nature may help kids cope better with stress because it may help them focus their attention, which can feel like a mini-vacation.Listening to music can help calm you down and reduce distress. Use creative activities to deal with stress such as painting, drawing, and writing.Give yourself a break. Try your hardest and be the best you can be, but take breaks when needed. You need time off to recharge, too., Having someone to talk to is essential when you are emotionally stressed or have any kind of stress.Social relationships help us deal with stress because it makes us feel like we have someone else to help us if we need it.It doesn't matter whether it's a friend, teacher, counselor or a trusted adult.


If you feel comfortable talking with your friends about your stress, you can message them online or send them a text message. If you can, set up a time to talk with them face-to-face. Your friends can be a great source of support because they might be able to understand what you are going through. They might be dealing with the same emotions you are!
Tell the person how you are feeling and learn to identify your emotions. Some examples of emotions that are similar or sometimes combined with stress are feeling: overwhelmed, anxious, worried, fearful, sad, and depressed. All of these emotions can coincide with feeling stressed. Use I statements like, “I feel stressed when I think about this math test I’m going to take.”
You can ask for help on an issue, and try to solve the problem by getting more ideas from someone else. You can ask for help by saying, "I'm so stressed, what do you think might make me feel better? Can you help me?"

, Many youths have a difficult time with stress and it is normal and okay to get therapy as a young person. If your stress causes you to have extreme emotions or to engage in risky or harmful behaviors (such as coping with food or self-inflicting pain), therapy or other treatment may be useful in order to develop healthier ways to deal with stress. Therapists are typically professionally trained in ways to reduce stress (such as relaxation techniques and psychological interventions).


Talk to a school counselor and ask her for a referral to a therapist. Or, you can ask your parent to contact a psychologist or therapist to set up an appointment.
Think about taking medicine if it's necessary. Sometimes emotional stress gets the best of you (even when you're young), so you may need to go to the doctor. Talk to your parent or guardian if you think you may need medication.

