 This really depends on where you live, what type of budget you have, and what kind of party you want it to be. If you live right near the beach, it would be nice to go on the beach, and have lots of people go, about 20 or 50, or have a small gathering, with 10 people, and have a cozy barbecue. Write down anybody you like, then decide if they will cause trouble, or get annoying after a few hours, make sure no one is there to ruin your day!;
, Where are you going to hold your party? On the beach? In your backyard? Plan a date, trying to get a date available to your guests. What time is your party? Are you going to have an all day party? Or a party starting at 5:00 and going through to 11:00, a party, with a beautiful sunset on the beach? Decide on what you think will make your party special.
 Buying your invites, is easier, it takes less time, and they will look really good, if you buy invites, look for flower-printed invitations, or anything to do with summer! Although making your invites (if you are a having a small party) is fun, and you can create whatever you like! An extremely creative idea would be to recycle wine bottles and inside these, you will put your invites. Write out all the details about your party in a black fountain pen, and write (or get someone to write) in a curly, posh, writing. Then pour coffee onto your invites, and let them dry, once dry scrunch up your invites, and make little rips in them, it gives them an ancient feel, the roll that up tie with thick string (also drowsed in coffee) and put into the wine bottle, get some cork screws and put them in the tops of the bottles, and buy some labels to write your guests' names on!

, Be totally creative, think up something that will set your party aside from everyone's! If you are having your party in your garden, and have lots of tree, set fairy lights up in between your trees, to light up at night, invest in some lanterns, and let them go together! Decorate with flowers, and bright, colorful, summer stuff! Though if you party is set on the beach, set up lights, candles, use lanterns, and let things go out into the ocean, also get some tiki torches, and set up a campfire!

, Remember this is a beach themed party! Make try exotic foods from all over the world! Skewers, supply lots of chicken treat, fries, pizza, burgers, hot dogs, ice creams (maybe rent out, or hire a ice cream van, or stand, to sure your guests) have lots of drink available, make sure you will not run out, buy tons of fizzy drinks, and create your own non-alcoholic cocktails, and have plenty of water available! Be extra creative and have a bright fruit platter. People will eat it if it looks good!

, Is it going to be fancy dress? - Everyone loves a good fancy dress party, but really how creative can you be with beach, hula girl? People will have fun finding a new outfit for your party!

, - Have a bonfire on the beach, roast marsh mellows,or for a daytime party, arrange for everyone to have surfing lessons! Just make sure you have something you believe so one has done before.
 Take tons, and tons of pictures, of every part of the night, get you parents to take pictures, and ask anyone coming to bring their camera, and send all their pictures to you. If you had a small party, create mini scrapbooks of your time on the beach, or in your backyard. But if you had lots of people come, post your pics on facebook, and any other photo sharing sites, and print yourself out a scrapbook of all your friends!

