 A to-bring list of items can vary widely depending on the type of weekend trip you're planning. Certain things, like an extra set of clothes, are recommended across the board, while other things can be brought or left depending on the type of place you're going to. Here is a list of things to consider bringing:



Clothes. For a weekend trip, a fresh set of clothing should be considered necessary. You will want to feel fresh on the second and third day of being away from home, and in the case that your first set of clothes gets wet or dirty, you'll want something to fall back on. The same applies to socks and underwear. Bring heavier clothing, like a jacket, based on the forecasted weather.Toiletries. Toothpaste and a toothbrush should be deemed essential for your trip. If the place you're going has running water, a small vial of shampoo and conditioner should be brought along as well to ensure you're feeling fresh throughout the trip.

Trip entertainment. The journey to and from your location should be just as enjoyable as when you get there. This can be helped by taking along some entertainment. If you're driving, bring a few of your favourite CDs to cycle through. A good book is also recommended, particularly if you're going somewhere relaxing like a lake.

Trip-applicable items. A weekend vacation is often built around a certain activity. Your to-bring list should mention the specific things you'll need to perform that activity. If you're fishing, for example, you will need a rod and a bait box, among other things. Depending on where you're going, items like some mild first aid should be considered as well.;
, A weekend trip is relatively easy to outline. It's not a large amount of time, and it's usually focused on one specific activity. Try to gauge what your .Can you see any things you'll most likely be doing? What are you hoping to do over the weekend? Running through the vacation in your mind's eye will give you a stronger idea what you should be bringing along with you.


For example, if you're going to a lake in the Summer, useful items such as bug spray and lighter fluid are recommended. Imagine the possible scenarios that relate to the environment in question, and speculate as to the things you would need.
If there are activities you may do but aren't sure about (like swimming, for example) it's best to bring them along anyway. A weekend trip isn't going to require much baggage to begin with, and you might feel left out if you decide not to bring something.
 Your packing should be arranged with respects to the weekend's activity and the environment it's taking place in. Because your trip will only encompass a couple of days, it's prudent to check the weather forecast for those days and plan accordingly. If there's going to be rain, the clothes you bring should reflect that. A poncho and umbrella will be sorely missed if you neglect to check the weather beforehand. In the case of sun, bringing sunglasses and sunscreen will be helpful. Cold weather demands you bring heavier clothing, like a winter parka, along for the ride. If you're somehow unsure, prepare for the worst just in case.


Even if your weekend trip will be spent mostly indoors, bringing an umbrella can make a major difference in the case of rain.
Download an app like Weatherbug for on-the-go weather forecasts.
 Under the best circumstances, you won't need to use everything you bring with you on a weekend trip. In case something bad happens however, you don't want to be far from home and wishing you had brought something. This is especially true if you're going to be camping or otherwise hiking somewhere where help isn't immediately available.


Carry a small bit of first-aid along with your toiletries. This includes some band-aids, aloe vera and headache relievers. These will take up a negligible amount of space, and you'll be glad you brought them if it comes time to use them.
A set of extra socks will come in handy, especially if the weather is forecasted to be rainy. Nothing spoils a good weekend faster than wet feet.
Even if you're only going to be gone for a weekend, an extra set of underwear is never a bad idea.
 For a weekend trip, you're more likely to overpack than underpack. Unless you're going camping, you won't need much to hold you over for a weekend and carrying too much stuff around will sap some of the enjoyment of travel to begin with. If you can, see how much you can minimize the amount of stuff you bring, and try to stuff it all into a backpack.You don't want to skimp out on things you might miss, but optional luxuries like a hair dryer can probably be done without over a 48 hour period.


For a weekend trip, try to limit yourself to a single backpack forth of clothing and items. This will force you to prioritize what you need over the things you can do without. One change of top is usually all you'll need for a weekend.