

Know the key players, including team captain Joe Thornton, Logan Couture, Patrick Marleau, and Brent Burns.



 


Know the role players, including Marc-Edouard Vlasic, Dan Boyle, and Joe Pavelski.






Know the starting goaltender Antti Niemi.






Know the head coach of the Sharks, Todd McLellan.






Know the Sharks' general manager, former Sharks captain Doug Wilson.






Be aware of the team's record. This includes wins, losses, and points, but the most important stat is the team's current position in the standings.





;
, Good names to know include Owen Nolan, Mike Ricci, Teemu Selanne, Sandis Ozolinsh, Arturs Irbe, Mike Vernon, Jonathon Cheechoo, Milan Michalek, Evgeni Nabokov, Rob Blake, and Jeremy Roenick.
 Go with the rest of the crowd. Some things to expect:

If there's a Sharks power play, the Jaws theme will play over the sound system. When you hear it, you'll want to move your arms up and down (in opposite directions) like a jaw.






If the other team is putting on the pressure, and the defense clears the puck away from the goalie and past the blue line, be sure to applaud. This is especially true during a penalty kill. The more pressure that was put on the defense, the bigger the applause.






If you're upset that the other team scored and then are stunned to realize that Niemi made the save, start chanting "NEMO! NEMO! NEMO!" (WARNING: Be sure it was a save first. If the red light behind the goal is flashing, the other team probably scored. Starting the chant when there is a goal could bring negative comments from surrounding fans).






During games with the Anaheim Ducks, when you hear a duck call of two short bursts, you should respond with "Ducks suck!"






Become familiar with Gary Glitter's "Rock and Roll Part 2," which is played after every Sharks goal. Fans will cheer part of the song and shout "Hey" while pumping their fists in the air.






When the Los Angeles Kings are playing, it is appropriate to chant "Beat LA!"







, The Sharks have had good records in recent years, so it's easy to be a Sharks fan. True fans support the Sharks during the hard times too. Leaving the game early when the Sharks are behind is an indicator of a fair-weather fan. Exceptions can be made if it's a complete slaughter (down by 5+), and you can't bear to witness the beating. A true Sharks fan rides it out until the end knowing the Sharks will win!


Be skeptical yet optimistic about the Stanley Cup. The Sharks have a reputation for playing extremely well during the regular season but fizzling out during the playoffs.
 San Jose Sharks fans are known to be the loudest fans in the NHL, so if a road trip is planned (for example, the "Shark Infestation" in Anaheim), try to go with them. If you've never been to another NHL arena, it will be a good experience.

