 CodeMii (http://www.codemii.com) is a reliable source of the most recent version of various Homebrew files, including the Homebrew browser. Search the site for the "homebrew browser" to access the most up-to-date link., Click the link to download the files onto your computer. The download will come as a “.zip” file and will need to be “unzipped” in order to access and install.
 Depending on your operating system and specific settings, your computer may automatically unzip upon download. If so the .zip file will be expanded into a series of folders containing the browser files. If not, you’ll need to unzip using a separate application.


On a Mac, Unarchiver is a free, well-reviewed option for unzipping.On a PC, choose from free software options like 7-zip or IZArc., The Wii has slots for either a USB device or an SD card - you will need one or the other for this installation. The storage device will also be used to store your soon-to-be-downloaded Homebrew applications and utilities, so consider buying or designating a specific storage device for this purpose.
 Ensure first that there is space available to write on the device and that it is formatted correctly to receive new files. To learn more about formatting your storage device go to Format an SD Card or to Format a Flash Drive. This storage device will be used to store all your Homebrew related files - that includes the browser files themselves and any future downloads you access via the Homebrew browser.


For SD cards, ensure that the write-lock switch is off.
 This folder must be created in the root directory of your storage device and have this exact name. Naming it like this allows the Homebrew channel on your Wii to know exactly where to look for the Homebrew browser (as well as other) files.


The “apps” folder must named in all lowercase characters.
 The browser files that you’ve downloaded and unzipped will be in at least 2 separate subfolders. One folder will be the browser files (“homebrew_browser”) and the other will be Help materials. Drag the “homebrew_browser” folder into your storage device’s “apps” folder.The other files from the Homebrew browser download do not need to be moved to your storage device in order for the browser to work.
It may be worth reading through the Help materials in the Homebrew browser download at your convenience, to gain a more thorough understanding of the software you will be using but it is not required.
 Once the browser files are on the storage device, it’s time to eject it from your computer and insert it into your Wii.
 Your Wii must be connected to the internet in order to properly install the browser. Run a connectivity test before proceeding if you are unsure.
 You should immediately see the Homebrew browser. Click on it and follow the instructions to begin the installation.


If you don’t see the Homebrew browser, double check your storage device’s “apps” folder is named correctly and is in the root directory of the device.
 The first time you click on the browser application, your Wii will mount the storage device and run some lines of code. This is a part of the browser installation process - let it run. Your Wii will also automatically check for updates to the browser software this and each time going forward so that you will always have the latest version.
 You can now begin downloading content - just find the app or utility you’d like to download, ensure that you’re connected to the internet and that your storage device has space left, then click the download button.

