 This enhances skin color and suppleness. This will help keep your skin strong by maintaining its basic support structure—collagen. You can increase Vitamin C intake by:


Eating more foods that contain Vitamin C. This includes citrus fruits like lemon, orange, gooseberry, etc. Fruits/juices, strawberries, sweet peppers, tomatoes, cantaloupe, and green peas.
Taking Vitamin C pills. If you chose to do it this way, you should take 250 mg/day. Do not go beyond this amount.;
, Since your skin is basically composed of Retinol, which is Vitamin A, this will help keep your skin healthy and strong. If you feel your skin is weak or not tight enough, that usually suggests a lack of Vitamin A.


Foods that are high in Vitamin A include nonfat milk, oysters, and egg yolks. You can also get Vitamin A by eating foods that are high in beta carotene, which will help minimize the effects of sun damage to your skin. These include carrots, watermelon, papaya, tomatoes, or other dark colored produce.
 Apply sunscreen with a minimum of SPF 15 whenever you are outdoors. UVA/UVB rays are known to be harmful to your skin because they slow down your body's ability to repair damaged skin cells and clear dead ones. Pollution is also a major cause of acne and dull skin tone.
 Skin lightening products with hydroquinone or kojic acid reduce the amount of melanin in the skin when applied.These can be effective, but they come with certain risks:


Skin whitening products have been associated with toxic levels of mercury, and therefore, with mercury poisoning. The FDA regulates the use of hydroquinone in the U.S, and so it's relatively safe. 1 out of every 4 skin whitening agents from China, however, contains mercury, and so should be used with caution.Be careful about sun exposure when using skin whitening agents. Prolonged sun exposure can lead to skin cancer.Always use appropriate sunscreen and other sun protection when exposed to sunlight.
Bleaching agents can cause irritation and allergic reactions in some people. Bleaching agents with steroids, such as kojic acid, may put you at risk for health problems associated with steroid use.
 Invest in a personal water bottle and keep it with you throughout the day.
 Doing so will help you de-stress and let your body detoxify.
 Scrub this lightly on your face. Do not use oil if you have normal to oily skin. Use honey in place of oil. It will leave the skin lightly moisturized, which is desirable for oily skin types.
 The citric acid in lemon slowly works away at the pigments in your skin, but this treatment will take a while. Mix equal parts fresh lemon juice and water into a spray bottle and apply evenly over skin you wish lightened. Consider:


Avoid exposure to sunlight. When using lemon and other skin-lightening products, always use sunscreen and avoid unnecessary time in the sun. Lemons and lemon juice can dry out skin, making it susceptible to sun damage.
Try using lemon or lemon juice only every other day. Lightening your skin with lemon juice will take a long time, so it's tempting to try to apply a mask or lemon juice every day. Try to stick to 3-4 applications every week. Lemon juice dries out the skin too much to apply every day.
Be aware of what products you put on your skin. Much of what you put on your skin gets absorbed into your body. If you are using other ingredients in addition to lemon juice as a peel, a wash, a lotion, or a mask, use good judgment about whether you'd want it in your bloodstream.
 The following options will whiten your skin and improve your complexion.


Cucumber mask. Put a cucumber, 1/4 cup of lemon juice, 5 teaspoons of honey, and 5 teaspoons of milk into a blender. Blend until well mixed. Pour mixture into a bowl. Stir in flour until the mixture gets a thick consistency. Refrigerate for 6 hours. Apply to your face once daily after you shower. You should leave it on for 15-20 minutes, and wash it off with warm water and a clean towel.
Amaranth juice mask. Blend 1/4 cup amaranth juice or 1 cup of amaranth leaves with a small amount of lukewarm water leave for 15 to 25 minutes.
Mint and floral cream. Put a handful of almonds, fresh rosebud paste, honey and 5 tablespoons of fresh mint juice into a blender. Blend until creamy. Apply the cream every night before bed. If refrigerated, the cream should last about one week.
 Other home remedies using items commonly found around the house may help you whiten your skin while giving it a rosy luster.


Make a potato mask. Potatoes may contain bleaching agents that make the skin lighter while treating blemishes. Mash raw potato into a pulp, make a paste with a bit of milk, and apply to skin, leaving for 15 minutes. Alternately, apply raw potato slices to skin and leave for 15 minutes.
Make an almond mask. Soak some almonds in water overnight. Dump out water, blend almonds with either honey or milk, and apply as a paste to skin. After it dries, wash it off gently.
Make a tomato mask. Another natural bleaching agent, tomato can be mixed raw with a bit of lemon juice and applied as a paste to the skin. Leave for 15 minutes before washing off.

