 If you are unfamiliar with IBS, it is important to teach yourself a bit about it so that you have a better sense of what your friend is going through. IBS is a chronic medical condition that impacts the colon or large intestine. IBS is not a disease, it is a functional gastrointestinal disorder and a syndrome that is classified by its symptoms.You may have symptoms such as abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, gas, and constipation. Although symptoms can be severe, many people are able to manage this chronic condition with the right approach to diet, lifestyle, and stress management.Symptoms may also disappear on their own.If you want to learn more about IBS, check out some of the useful health and lifestyle books on the topic:


A New IBS Solution: Bacteria-The Missing Link in Treating Irritable Bowel Syndrome by Mark Pimentel.Gut: The Inside Story of Our Body's Most Underrated Organ by Giulia Enders.Making Sense of IBS: A Physician Answers Your Questions about Irritable Bowel Syndrome by Brian E. Lacy PhD MD.;
, Tell your friend, family member or partner with IBS that you love and support them no matter what. It is important to communicate your care and support so that they don’t feel like they are a burden.For example, you might try saying:


"I know things have been hard lately. I just want you to know I am here for you no matter what. If things get rough, just let me know."

, Let your friend, partner, or family member with IBS decide what, when, and how to eat. They have the experience of dealing with IBS to know what foods cause problems and how to manage their diet to reduce symptoms. Therefore, it is best to empower your loved ones’ IBS decision-making.Try telling them: "Why don't you decide on a recipe for dinner. I am open to whatever, so go ahead and choose something that you think might be good for your stomach."
If you are worried about your friend or partner’s decision-making, perhaps ask if they have spoken to their doctor lately. It is best to leave IBS related concerns to a health professional.
 IBS can be incredibly inconvenient and can disrupt everyday plans in unpredictable ways. If they experience symptoms and need help to watch the kids or do a chore, you should offer your help. They will be grateful and you will deepen your friendship.However, make sure that you avoid making presumptuous suggestions. For example, don’t assume that you know the cure for their condition by saying “I bought this gluten-free bread specifically for you” or “I heard about a new pill at the health food store.” It is presumptuous to make suggestions for something you likely know a great deal less about than your friend with IBS. You might try saying:


"If you ever need help with the kids or with dinner in a pinch, I can always drop by and help. I would really like to help out."
"Do you need any help with chores this weekend?"
"Do you need any help watching the kids while you are at the hospital?"

, Relationship conflict can intensify IBS symptoms. If you are in a relationship with someone with IBS, you should take measures to manage any conflict in the relationship. The following conflict management tips may help manage conflict and related IBS symptoms:Do not yell.
Avoid name calling.
Start and end each conversation with an affirmative statement of care and support.
Avoid using swear words.
Apologize.
Focus on the other person’s values, motivations, and perceptions rather than focusing on what is right or wrong. Try to view the conflict as an opportunity for growth., Avoid making snarky jokes about how long they have been in the bathroom or otherwise making impolite jokes about IBS. These jokes will hurt their feelings and make them feel uncomfortable. If you joke about their condition, they may not want to spend time with you.You should also avoid making presumptuous comments or suggestions about their condition.


Avoid silly jokes that belittle or demean. When your friend with IBS comes out of the bathroom, you might want to avoid asking your friend, “Did you fall in?”
Avoid snarky comments. For example, when your friend with IBS comes back to the dinner table, don’t say “wow, you’ve been gone a long time!”

