 This could be anything from a student club to a national organization (like the American Civil Liberties Union or the National Organizers Alliance).Most activist organizations offer different levels of involvement, so you can do whatever you feel most comfortable with, whether that means attending meetings and demonstrations, making phone calls to your local representatives, or just donating a little money when you can.;
, One of the best ways to make a difference is to volunteer your time. Reach out to organizations in your community that do work for your cause, and ask how you can help.


For example, if you are interested in supporting animals in need, try volunteering at your local animal shelter or wildlife rescue. There are many ways you could help, from caring for the animals to helping with fundraising events or writing content for the web., Most activist or charitable organizations need resources to do their work. If you can’t afford to donate money to an organization that supports your cause, you may be able to donate other things they need, like clothing or canned food.


Be aware that some charities are more reputable than others. If you plan to donate money or goods to support a cause, do some research before you donate. Check out your charity’s rating with organizations like CharityWatch, Charity Navigator, or the BBB Wise Giving Alliance., Tell your family and friends about your cause, and invite them to get involved. If they are interested, share literature about your cause or just talk to them about what you have learned. If you do volunteer work, invite an interested friend or family member to volunteer with you.


If you’re not sure how to begin, start by coming up with a list of five friends or family members you feel you can talk to about your cause. Think about how you would feel most comfortable approaching them (e.g., over email, over the phone, or in person), and reach out to them in the way that feels right to you., You can use social media to help keep your friends and followers informed about the causes you support. Post informative articles, write about what you are doing to stay involved, and invite your friends to attend events or donate to fundraisers for your cause., One of the simplest and most important forms of activism is practicing what you believe in, or “conscious activism.” Practicing conscious activism means incorporating activism into your everyday life by living and acting in ways that directly support your cause (e.g., reducing your carbon footprint, using sustainably produced products, and so on).For example, if you are interested in minimizing animal cruelty, you can start by not using products made from animals (like fur or leather) and avoiding businesses that exploit animals (like circuses or SeaWorld).

