 Use a ruler or paper cutter to get the edges square and straight. This will provide the structure for the cover of your book.
 Hold a ruler on the second line, and make ticks 1/16th" (1.5mm) away on each side. Score the lines on either side of the center from top to bottom, using an empty ball point pen or a bone folder.
 Don't fold along the center line.
 Cut sixteen rectangles of ordinary printer paper, measuring 7/8" (22mm) long by 1.5" (3.8cm) wide. If you have access to a paper cutter it will help make the pages even, as will stacking or folding the paper before cutting. (Don't stack too thickly, though, or you'll have trouble cutting. Two stacks of eight layers each seem to cut reasonably easily, and it doesn't matter if the pages for one book are slightly different from the other.)
, Trim the outside edges so that they're once again even. These will form the pages of the books.
 Line up the centers of the pages with the centers of the cover cardboard. Lay the book open flat with the cover side down on a cutting mat or a spare chunk of scrap cardboard. Use a push pin to poke three holes in the spine, through the center of the pages. Do this for both books.
,,,, Bring the needle back up through the middle hole, down through the top hole, etc. If you're using thin thread, you may want to do this figure-8 pattern a couple more times before tying it off. Loop the thread through itself on the back side a few times to tie off the stitches, then trim the excess thread.
 Cut two rectangles of the decorative fabric or paper, 3.25" (8.25cm) wide by 2" (5cm) long. If there is a pattern or grain to the fabric or paper, check to make sure that your rectangles run parallel to it. These will become the covers of your books.
 Keep each decorative cover together with the book you used to measure it, in case they are slightly different sizes.
 Cut at a shallow angle from the corners of the score marks to the edge. The exact angle is not important, but try to get it reasonably symmetrical.
, The photo shows the cover ready to glue.
 Make sure to put the glue on the "back" or "wrong" side of the material, and make sure to apply glue on the entire area, all the way to the edges.






It helps to put a piece of scrap paper behind as you apply the glue, to catch any that runs over the edges.
A glue stick is a bit neater than liquid glue, but either will work.
 Fold the top flaps over and press them firmly. Repeat for the bottom flaps.
 Press firmly.







Alternatively, you could glue the string, but be sure it is secure.
 Pull it close to the book, then tighten it firmly.
, Use needle-nose pliers or jewelry pliers without teeth. Insert the earring mounts so that the books will both point forward when the earrings are worn.
 Rest a heavy book on top of them to hold them closed while the glue dries.





