 (Don't forget the dagger sticking to a piece of paper to a table in the first room you pass.) Also, there is a lock pick on the table. Take this and open the small box on the bottom shelf.
 Find a stump in the middle of a clearing. Get the axe laying inside. If you have or plan to have a good Axe skill, keep it. If not, sell it for some cash. (VenusMoon2's idea)

, Don't worry, you'll get it back.
 Sell whatever you have that isn't valuable and buy lock picks.
 The quest will net 100G, that ring, and a lock pick. Pick up the quest, go to the lighthouse, and wait until night-time. Watch your mark. Have patience; it may take a while. Visit the hollowed out log in the swamp and loot it.
 A man will fall not far from you.
, Save before you go in; there are ghosts and other creeps inside!

, This is what the picks you hopefully bought are for! Pick the lock or find the key somewhere in the dungeon and unlock it.
 If you don't want to use it, sell it for a whopping 15,000 gold.
 Head left around the building and into Ra'virr's trade house.
 Save beforehand in case you accrue a bounty or die.
 Keep the ones you want and sell what you don't.
 Enjoy!

,;
, A merchant there is selling glass armor.
 Quick save, cast Moonshadow, then sneak and take one piece of armor. Nobody will see you take it, but you won't be invisible anymore so don't take more than one thing at a time.
 Then wait 1 more hour to get Moonshadow again.
 It is unlikely that you can get the armor in crates without getting caught, but you might discover a way if you want to try.
, For example: Sell glass bracer for 4000 and wait 24 hours. Then sell glass shoulder for 8000, but buy back the bracer for 4000 in the same transaction so that he only owes you 4000. Wait 24 hours again and sell back the bracer for 4000. You just got all 8000 for the shoulders even though he only has 5000 at a time.
 Purchase training in the same skill 10 times to ensure the x5 modifier on the skills governing attribute when you level up. This step is optional but recommended.