 As long as your bra provides you with the correct amount of support and leaves you feeling comfortable, virtually any bra can work under an ordinary, slightly loose t-shirt. Many women find a standard, no-fuss bra the most comfortable but you can opt for whatever style you like best.
 Seamless bras prevent lines from showing through your top, making them an excellent choice for tight t-shirts and fitted blouses. Stick with a full-coverage bra to create the smoothest fit, since demi-cup bras hit the middle of your breast and may create a dividing line that can show through your top.
 Plunging bras have a very deep center bridge, well below your breasts. If you wear a standard bra with a deep neckline, the cups or bridge may be exposed.
 The straps on a halter bra come in closer around your neck, rather than sitting further out along your shoulder. As a result, the straps remain hidden beneath the fabric of your top.


Wear racerback bras for racerback tops. Like the halter bra, the racerback bra has straps that mimic the shape of the top that shares its name.
 Strapless bras smooth out your form and provide basic support. They might run a little tighter than a standard bra, however, since the band must provide full support in the absence of straps.
 A bra with super thin straps may coordinate well enough with a spaghetti strap top. The straps may not disappear completely beneath your top but as long as your bra straps do not exceed the thickness of your top's straps, you may be able to get away with showing your bra straps in casual settings.


Choose a color that matches your top or stick with a neutral color.
 Convertible bras have adjustable straps, allowing you to change the way the straps fit based on the cut of your shirt. Basic convertible bras can usually be changed into halter bras and strapless bras; more extravagant convertibles have even more options.
 Silicone adhesive bras have no back and no straps. They stick onto your skin and smooth out your silhouette. These bras offer minimal support, however, so you should only use them as a last resort.
 There are no rules about matching the bra to your underwear––nobody sees the "match" and it's totally up to you whether this matters or not. If it does matter, aim to buy the bra and underwear at the same time to ensure a good match.

