 The GPS market is flooded with different devices, options, and features. Unless you plan on using your GPS in the wilderness or for research experiments, however, your smart phone or a car GPS, can provide directions and your location quickly and easily. Most have touch screens and come with a rechargeable battery.



Smart Phones: Most smart phones come pre-loaded with a "Maps," or "Directions" app that uses GPS. If you do not have one, search and download an app, like Google Maps, from your app store to use GPS.GPS Devices: These are small, rectangular devices that specialize in driving directions and finding restaurants, airports, and other points of interest. Examples include TomTom and Garmin, and most cost under $170 dollars.;
, This is the basic screen for a GPS. It shows a location, usually with your current location at the center, and all of the roads and major landmarks nearby.
 Some GPS use touch screens, others have keypads, and some have scroll wheels and buttons. Click on the button labeled with a compass, navigational arrow, or crosshairs to show your current location.


Your location is sometimes stored under the heading "Where am I?" "Favorite Locations," or "Current."
iPhone users can see their current location using the built-in Compass App. Make sure you "Allow Location Services" for the compass under "Settings" → "Privacy" → "Location Services" → "Compass"

, Using the search bar found at the top of your GPS, type in the address you want to reach. Many touch screen GPS's let you choose a location by holding your finger on the location in the map.


Some GPS's will prompt you with a button labeled "Get Directions." Choose this if there is no search bar to input an address.
If you know the exact latitude and longitude of your trip, use these; they will give you the most accurate location possible.
 The GPS will give you directions at every turn you need to take. Don't worry if you miss a turn -- most GPS will auto-correct and give you a new route to get back on track.


If you are struggling to keep up, check your GPS's settings and make the "Turn Warning Frequency" setting longer -- giving you more time to hear the next direction.

