 If your loved one seems confused about your identity, give your name and explain how you are related.

For example, “I’m Annie, your granddaughter. Your daughter Sue is my mom,” is better than just “I’m Annie.”;
, Speak slowly and clearly. Use simple words and short sentences. Break long actions into smaller steps.Saying “We’re going to the grocery store to pick up a few things, then we’re going to the park across the street from the school, then we’ll see a movie at the mall” might be confusing. You might change it to “First we are going to the grocery store.” Give them a moment to process before proceeding. “Then we will go to the park.” Pause again. “Then we’ll go to the movie theater and see a movie.”

, Give the person some time to respond to questions. It takes dementia patients longer to process you are saying., Word retrieval (finding the right word to identify or describe) can be difficult for people with dementia. They may not be able to find the right word or understand what your word means. Encourage them to use gestures to describe what they are trying to say, and you can do the same.If your loved one is not understanding what you mean when you say “Wash your hands,” you can pantomime rubbing your hands together, or even take go into the bathroom and demonstrate.
 Not only does it increase everyone’s stress level, but people with dementia often genuinely feel confused. They may not remember asking the same question ten times, and they may not know where they put their medication. Remember, it is the disease, not the person, causing this behavior.

Going along with their stories, even if you know they are false, can help keep the peace. Do not feel like you need to correct them.If you find yourself getting frustrated and ready to argue, take a break. Give yourself a timeout.
 Be respectful.Give as much independence as possible. Let them make the decisions they are capable of making.

Depending on the intensity of the dementia, your loved one may not be capable of making many decisions, but be sure to give the opportunity as often as you can. Even small choices like, “Which shirt do you want to wear today? The blue one or the white one?” can help improve quality of life.
 Losing one’s train of thought is common with dementia patients. They may forget what they were talking about mid-sentence.Pay attention to what is being said and help the person get back on track, and do not make a big deal out of it. Say in a lighthearted tone of voice, “Oh, you were just telling me about the dog you had growing up! Can you tell me more?”

, Take the person’s hand, give them a hug or kiss if you (and they) are comfortable. Physical touch has been shown to have many positive benefits for people with dementia., Find a photo album of old pictures to share. This can help jog memories and start good conversations. You can learn more about your loved one’s life and family history, too.