 In order to compete, you must define something attainable that you can work towards. For example, your goal may be a promotion, a high grade, a sporting event or admission in a certain school.;
, The only way you are sure to win is if you compete by the rules. Knowing them by heart will help you stay in bounds while employing your fiercest tactics.
 Ask yourself whom you will be competing against. If you are aiming for a promotion or a school grade, you will need to compare yourself against others in order to compete.


In some cases, you might be competing against yourself. If you are training for a marathon, you may be aiming to beat your best time from a previous race. In this case, you will need to compare your past training methods and time against your current methods.
 The worst thing you can do is to underestimate your opponents. Aim high and respect your opponents’ talents so that you can rise to an even greater challenge., Be methodical and rate them compared to your own strengths and weaknesses. Compare the likelihood that you will win as the competition stands now.
 After determining how you rank presently, you will need to create a plan to rise ahead of the pack and win the competition.
 Loving what you do will give you a leg up on the competition. Dwell on the positive aspects of the goal, rather than the negative aspects.
 Training is essential to being a fierce competitor. The more time you spend perfecting your talents, the more likely you are to succeed.
 Sign up for extra tutorials or classes in order to out maneuver the competition.
 Always keep your eye on the goal. Avoid distraction and a total commitment to your cause.
 These quotes or statements can help bolster confidence. Say one of these quotes as you look into the mirror each morning or evening.


“No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.”- Eleanor Roosevelt
“Control your own destiny or someone else will.”-Jack Welch
“Courageous and determined. Faithful and fearless. That is who you are and who you always have been.”-Sheri L. Dew, Always compete with good sportsmanship. Rise above the urge to be a bully or a braggart and let your actions speak louder than words.
 Fierce competitors analyze mistakes and learn how to do it better next time. People who beat themselves up or ignore mistakes end up doomed to repeat them.
 Keep your body in the best possible shape that you can with adequate sleep, a healthy diet and plenty of exercise.
 Finding smaller challenges and winning will help build your confidence and self-esteem. For example, you may want to train for a 5k while you compete for a scholarship so that you are building physical and mental strength simultaneously.


Many studies suggest that sports develop the discipline, coping skills and self-esteem that help you succeed throughout your life. Playing a sport is likely to develop useful skills that will help you with other goals.If you are already competing in a sport, take on a mental challenge, like a crossword puzzle, brainteaser or speech.
Make sure this sport is not a distraction from your main goal. It should be used as a complementary form of practice.
 Take stock and reassess your strengths regularly.
 If one thing isn’t working, try something new. Creative and skilled competitors are most likely to succeed.
 Go by the phrase “give 110%,” so that you always know you are giving your best through the ups and downs of a competition.

