 Cardinal numbers are used to count things, or describe the number of things there are. Ordinal numbers, on the other hand, describe the placement of something in an ordered list, such as the placement of runners who finished a race.As in English, the lowest ordinals, such as primero (first), and segundo (second), typically are used the most.
 Since ordinals are used in a sentence as adjectives, they must use the same gender form as the thing they describe. You do this by changing the o at the end of the ordinal to an a.For example, if you were referring to "the second house" on a street, you would write "la segunda casa."

, In English, you've probably seen ordinals abbreviated as "1st" or "2nd." Ordinals can be abbreviated in Spanish too. For example, "1st" in Spanish would be written 1ª if the first thing is a feminine noun, and 1º to describe a masculine noun., Multiples are words such as "double" or "triple" that indicate a multiplication of a number. These words are vary similar to the words in English – for example, "double" in Spanish is "doble" – so they should be fairly easy to learn and remember if English is your first language.All but the first seven multiples are created by adding the suffix -plo to the root of the cardinal number word. Be careful of accent marks, which indicate which syllable should be stressed.
The first seven ordinals also have forms that end with the -plo suffix (such as "duplo" and "triplo"), but they are seldom used by Spanish speakers.
 In Spanish as in English, you might want to use multiples as a verb (doubled or tripled) or as an adverb (doubly or triply). To form these words in Spanish, you must change the word form.To create a verb, change the -plo suffix to -plicar. To do this with the first seven multiples, you'll have to use that seldom-used -plo form. For example, "to double" in Spanish would be "duplicar."
To create an adverb, you simply use the standard adverbial suffix -mente – similar to adding an -ly to form an adverb in English. For example, "triply" would be "triplemente."

