 Whisk for about five minutes, until thick enough to fall in ribbons from the whisk. Set aside.
 Add the evaporated milk and the coffee beans to a saucepan. Heat while stirring constantly until steaming heavily or just barely simmering. Remove from heat as soon as you reach this point.


You can use whole beans, but you'll get a stronger flavor if you crush them. To do this, seal them in a plastic bag and crush with a heavy rolling pin or mallet.The most common way to make ice cream without an ice cream maker involves frequent hand churning to break up ice crystals. Switching to evaporated milk to reduce water content is one of several tricks you can use to make this process much easier., Pour the hot milk in a thin trickle into the egg, whisking constantly. This forms a custard base, the beginning of most all commercial and restaurant ice creams.
 Return the egg, milk, and coffee beans to the stove. Heat over medium-low heat, stirring constantly. This will thicken gradually over the course of about ten minutes. Once it coats the back of a spoon dipped into the custard, remove from heat.


If you see any lumps forming, turn off heat and beat vigorously. High temperatures or rapid heating can cook egg proteins into rubbery lumps.
 Cover the mixture and place it in the refrigerator for one hour. This gives the coffee beans time to infuse the custard with coffee flavor.


You may get a stronger coffee flavor if you infuse the milk for one hour instead of waiting until it's been added to the eggs.This method will take a little longer, since you still need to chill the custard.
 After straining, hold the strainer over the custard and press the coffee beans against the mesh. Once the last bit of flavor has drained through, discard the beans.
 Whip 1 cup (240 mL) of the heavy cream until it doubles in volume. Fold into the custard until there are no lumps.


This size increase comes from air whipped into the mixture. During freezing, the air will keep water molecules farther apart, reducing the size of ice crystals that usually plague freezer-made ice cream., There are two ways to finish the job, depending on what equipment you own:


Freeze in ice cube trays until solid (several hours). Transfer to food processor and pulse with remaining ½ cup (120 mL) cream. Freeze in an ice cream tub.Or place a metal bowl inside a larger bowl of ice and rock salt. Add 1 pint (500 mL) ice cream mix at a time to the small bowl. Beat with electric mixer for ten minutes, until very cold. Freeze for 45 minutes, until pudding-like. Beat the same way for 5 minutes, then freeze until done.,