 While you certainly wouldn't want to eat this little on a regular basis, most people, regardless of their body type or current weight, will lose weight quickly when eating between 1,000 and 1,200 calories.


You will probably feel low on energy when eating this little, so try to plan your life accordingly and avoid vigorous physical activity.;
, With such a strict calorie restriction, it's important that you write down what you eat and plan out your day accordingly so that you don't "use up" all of your calories at once.


Get in the habit of reading all food labels, measuring out your portions, and keeping track of the calories in salad dressings, cooking sauces, oil, and beverages.
 Foods like bread, rice, pasta, cookies, and ice cream are packed with calories, don't fill you up, and provide little in the way of nutrition. Your diet should consist primarily of vegetables, lean protein, and fiber-rich fruits like apples.
 Intense aerobic exercise can help you lose weight more quickly in the long run, but in the span of two weeks, exercise will have little impact on how quickly you lose weight. Your best bet is to conserve your energy and stick with walking, biking, swimming, and light jogging to help burn extra calories without wearing you out.


A one hour walk burns between 200 and 300 calories.The calories you burn with exercise will depend on your current weight.
It's always good to exercise, but you should focus most of your efforts on eating right as that will play the biggest role in your weight loss.
 If your goal is to eat around 1,000 calories a day, then virtually anything you order at a restaurant will come close to reaching, or potentially exceeding, that calorie limitation. Your best bet is to prepare your meals at home so that you can control the ingredients as well as the portion sizes of your meals.


Switch to cooking spray rather than olive oil, vegetable oil, or butter. While olive oil is a healthy fat, it contains about 120 calories per tablespoon, which you really can't afford on a 1,000 calorie per day diet.
Pack your lunch in the morning before work or school. Be sure to include healthy snacks to munch on when you get hungry, like celery and carrots.
 Water helps fill you up in between meals, and is a good way to keep your mood and energy levels up when dieting. Carry a water bottle around with you at all times, and sip on it throughout the day.


Don't waste what little calories you have on soda, fruit juice, and alcohol. Eliminate these unhealthy drinks from your diet, at least for the next two weeks.
If you are used to drinking soda, switch to diet soda or sparkling water, both of which have zero calories.
 These drinks have zero calories and the caffeine they contain will help curb your appetite.


If you have issues with nighttime snacking, make yourself a cup of decaffeinated coffee or tea to help curb your cravings.
 The act of chewing gum will trick your body into thinking that it is eating something, and you will be less likely to snack if you already have something in your mouth.
 Not only will this improve your tooth and gum health, you will feel less inclined to snack out of boredom when your mouth feels clean and fresh.
 The most effective way to diet is to keep yourself distracted and busy so that you aren't constantly thinking about food (or the lack thereof). Make plans with friends, focus on your hobbies, take a hot bath, watch your favorite movie or television show, read a book, go swimming, etc.

