 Although it will be hard, always be nice and welcoming to everyone. Smile at people and ask them how their day is going, this shows them you actually care about them.;
, Romance is a popular theme for films. Choose traditional romantic tales such as Gone With the Wind or The Way We Were or look for modern rom-coms, (Romantic Comedies) and chick flicks. It doesn't matter what movies you watch, if you think they are romantic and you like it, watch it.
 One of the best types of romantic music is classical music. You should have romantic songs as your favorite genre of music, choose romantic pop music, soft rock music, country music or anything else you like. Download these songs to your phone and learn the lyrics as well.
 Both the colours pink and red are associated with Valentines. Try to have everything you own in pink or red such as clothes, bows, school supplies, etc. Decorate you room with red and pink stuffed animals, pillows, and a blanket. Paint your bedroom wall pink or red, write love quotes on the wall with fancy font to make your room even better.
 When going out in public wear a cute pink and red outfits such as overalls with a shirt or crop top, a dress with leggings, a sweater with a skirt or a pair of jean etc. Remember, be creative and wear new flirty clothes each day.
 Ballet can be a romantic dance form too, become a ballerina if you like or just enjoy dancing using balletic moves. If you have a boyfriend, take a dance class together.
 Look on the bright side of every situation such as if you spill something in your clothes, you now have an excuse to hit the mall and buy even more cute outfits!

, They are king and queen of the love kingdom. Offer to help your mom cook dinner or offer to help your dad shovel the driveway. Remember, your parents love you and want the best for you.
 Give people hugs if they're having a bad day to make them feel better. Be a good kisser and give people kisses, make sure the person is comfortable with it.
 Do flirty nail art designs on your nails such as mini hearts and polka dots, you can also go the a nail salon if you want your nails to look more professional.
 Purchase some cheap heart shaped chocolates from the store. Note if this person has any allergies to nut milk etc. Hand them the chocolate, mail it to them, or leave it on their doorstep, they'll feel loved by you doing this.
 Love Princesses wear skirts. Wear long or short skirts with mini hearts on them or polka dots.
 Princesses love to have a good time, when you're walking hum or sing romantic song to yourself and twirl once in a while, especially if you're wearing a dress or skirt (not too much as you may get dizzy).
 Certain flowers and jewels have been used since Victorian times to covertly express love. A Love Princess may like to educate herself about these.