 Whether or not you actually have confidence in yourself, act as if you have plenty and it'll automatically show through. Practice this at school and with your friends by smiling naturally and waving to people you know and saying, "Hi". Excellent posture - shoulders back, tummy in, and your butt very slightly out - while moving gracefully will also help maintain and boost that confidence in yourself. However, make sure your smiles aren't fake and that you don't look clumsy.;
, Don't be too soft or too loud. It's annoying to ask people to repeat what they said, or to have to cover your ears when you're next to them. If you have trouble talking in class or to others, spend 10-25 minutes in front of a mirror talking to yourself and practicing conversation. Although this method might sound strange, it'll boost your confidence in speaking naturally with others.


Avoid having a baby voice.
 Believe it or not, pretty girls can be nice, and guys always end up basing you on your personality. Treat those who aren't your friends neutrally, but do not be too nice or mean to them. This way, no one will be able to say that you were ever mean to them, and students will start looking up to you as a nice person. When given compliments, accept it gracefully and don't forget to give people genuine compliments as well!


If someone says particularly awkward, such as "You're hot", quickly say, "Thanks" with a pleasant smile and be on with it. Don't let it slow you down, for the person meant it to be nice - not mean.
Be friendly and look approachable. You want to be the girl people want to be with, so smile and laugh a lot. Laugh funny jokes, but be careful about laughing too much or people will think you're faking it to look good. Show teachers and older authorities respect, and never be too pushy or annoying.
Remind yourself of the old, good rule: If you can't say anything nice, don't say it at all!

, If someone comes up with one about you, shake it off and ignore it. Although it might be hard, it'll be worth it in the end. If someone questions you about it, simply tell him/her in a firm, but polite voice that the rumor isn't true and leave him/her to create his/her own conclusions. Avoid exploding and cursing in public if you have anger issues, for a cursing, bad-tempered girl is not attractive.


If someone insults you, laugh it off. That person is only trying to make you feel bad about yourself and if you feel hurt, you're letting him/her win. If you give the mean person no reaction, he/she will find you boring to insult and won't bother you.
Know how to stand up for yourself without offending or hurting anyone with insults.
 Even if people won't be able to see how obedient and kind you are to your parents, your parents will remember this for years to come. Plus, if you show that you can be responsible daily, they will extend your freedoms and privileges. Spend quality time with your parents, but make sure to have time for yourself and your other wants.
 However, don't speak more than you need to, but make sure you contribute to conversations to keep them going comfortably. End the conversation at an appropriate time while it's still interesting, but avoid stretching it out until it hits the awkward silence. If you leave before the awkward silence hits, the person you converse with will look forward to the next conversation and think of you as a fun person to talk to.


Avoid using chat speak in real life. If you want to say "LOL", why not just laugh? Keep the chat speak for texting and emailing.
 Although you may not gossip, your friends certainly will! Familiarize yourself with everything that's going on in school. Having connections and the ability to contact your friends outside of school is wise, whether it's texting, calling, Facebook, emailing, Myspace, Twitter, etc. However, even if you do listen to your friends' gossip, make sure you do not spread the gossip any further, but keep it to yourself.


Give out your phone number to only people you know and trust.
Put your Facebook on the best privacy settings to prevent rumors or gossip from getting through. Don't add people you don't know or that don't go to your school.

If you're not sure if the person goes to your school or not, leave his/her friend request alone and refer to a few friends about it.
 It doesn't necessarily have to be a clique, but make sure it consists of a small group of close friends that you can get together and have good conversations with. Frequently text them and remain in contact with them. However, you can have plenty of other friends too - don't be afraid to branch out!


Branching out can be important. In case one of your friends betrays you or stops being your friend, you'll have your other friends to turn to, even if they're not as close as you were with your old friend.
Stay out of friend drama.
It's recommended you have one best friend that is the very best of all your friends. Make sure you can tell all your secrets to this friend without her blurting them out. She should also be able to trust you and tell you all her secrets as well.
Avoid being nosy, rude, lying, gossiping, and backstabbing your friends. It's very unclassy and it kills the mood.
 Have you ever been in a situation where you're having a great time, when someone comes along and says something that totally puts a damp cloth over everything? It's extremely irritating! Shy away from negative people, but don't be rude to them while avoiding them. Subtly move away or politely excuse yourself an appropriate time if a negative person joins in your conversation with your friends. However, if you can't escape, make a nice comment that subtly hints to the negative person that he/she needs to change.


If you are a negative person, change yourself and look on the bright side of everything, but don't be completely oblivious too. Look at the glass as half-full instead of half-empty or you'll become pessimistic! Know what to feel like and say at the right times without sounding awkward or hurting anyone. Laugh and smile a lot, for it boosts your health and increases your happiness!
If worse comes to worse and you cannot escape the negative person, deal with him/her as nicely and politely as you can until you can make your getaway.
When avoiding negative people, make sure you are doing it subtly and that it isn't obvious.
 Choose your activities and hobbies based on your likes and talents. Don't listen to what others say or care about what they think about you. If you're an artist and artists aren't popular in your school, do not let that prevent you from taking an art class that you really want to participate in. If you shy away from activities or classes that you like but people don't like, you're merely prohibiting yourself from living a happy life and you're letting others' thoughts and opinions take control of you. That is not cool and you'll need to learn to let go of it all.


Learn that people's opinions and thoughts shouldn't affect your likes and dislikes. You are you and you won't be able to please everyone in life.
Do not brag or show off your talent, for this is cocky and self-centered. You may not realize it, but you may be putting others down and making them feel bad about themselves when you do this. Even if you brag to make you feel better about yourself, you may not be helping others' self-esteem.
 If you don't take a sport, at least participate in gym class. However, it's perfectly fine if you're not a good athlete, as not everyone can be a marathon runner, but at least aim to do a decent job and have a good, reachable goal (ex: "I'll run the mile under eleven minutes this time!"). Good athlete or not, you should get at least thirty minutes of exercise every single day. To get your body moving while having fun, participate in exercising activities with your friends, such as chasing them or playing a sports game together.
 Study hard and strive to get good grades while keeping yourself organized. Although you don't have to be a straight-A student, at least get decent grades to make you, your parents, and your teachers proud. Remember that your future career will depend heavily upon the amount of education you receive when you're younger. If you splurge your time on video games and other fun activities that are free from homework and education, you're basically throwing away your opportunity to live a comfortable life in the future with a good career that keeps you balanced financially. Do all you can to make sure you get a good education now so that you won't have to pay for the time you wasted later in the future.


Keeping a planner - or using one provided by your school - to record special events, due assignments, and tests is highly recommended. Even if it doesn't seem to work, planners will help keep you organized and on top of your work.
Use binders to organize your notes, homework, and tests/quizzes. Some schools might require you to hand in a folder or small binder of your work every quarter or marking period. Keeping your papers organized now will help you be able to find them easily when you need them.

Schools will usually require you to study off of past papers for your finals. Do not throw away your papers once you receive them or you may be in trouble.
If you find that you're missing a paper that you need to study off of, copy a friend's or another student's paper.


Organize your school supplies, papers, and books into one backpack while making sure you don't overstuff your backpack. For example: You could keep unneeded books in your locker instead of bringing them home.
If possible, complete your homework assignments ahead of time. This way, you can get them out of the way and focus on larger projects or other assignments. This also applies for tests - start studying a little bit of the information every day ahead of time. That way, all you'll have to do on the night before the test is review the information instead of cramming!
Don't be afraid to ask your teachers or parents for help if needed. They are there to guide and help you, not humiliate you. If you find that you need additional help, it's recommended that you find a tutor or another student who would be willing to help you.

It isn't recommended that you ask a friend who will distract you to tutor you, for you'll want to have your attention on grades, not on the hot guy in your class.
 Have a good sense of hygiene and take good care of your body. Not only will this boost your health, but it will also give you an attractive appearance that people won't be able to help but notice. You can achieve this by doing the following:


Take a daily shower, even if you want to do nothing but fall into bed and sleep. This will make sure you smell good and also wash the grime and dirt from your body. Use an effective, good-smelling soap to be sure you actually clean yourself.

Get a good-smelling body wash and matching moisturizing body lotion to boost your hygiene and make your shower time more enjoyable.


Have an excellent face-care routine:

Use a cleanser that matches your face type (dry, oily, normal, or combination skin) while making sure it isn't too strong or too weak.
Wash off the cleanser with lukewarm water.
Apply a toner to your face. This will close up and tighten the pores on your face, eliminating the possibilities of dirt clogging up your pores and making your skin feel refreshed.
Follow up with a good moisturizer to keep your skin moist. However, do not avoid moisturizing your pimples, for your pimples will need the moisture in order to heal. Beware of over-moisturizing.


If you have acne, purchase a good concealer and a natural acne-treatment product to remove the acne naturally and smoothly. Avoid ingredients with chemicals, for chemicals are harsh on your skin.

Before trying new products on your face, always rub a little bit on your arm as a test. If the skin on your arm breaks out, starts to get itchy, or forms a rash, you may be allergic to the product.
Never try a bunch of products at once, even if your skin isn't allergic to them. You'll want to slowly ease the products into your daily face routine so that your skin can get used to the new ingredients it is being introduced to. This will also make sure you know which product is causing your skin a bad reaction if you break out.


Wear sunscreen of SPF 30 or higher on your face. For your body, apply sunscreen of SPF 45 or higher. Be sure you use an amount the size of a golf ball to keep your skin completely protected!

Do not tan in the sun, for it will give you more wrinkles when you get older and wrinkles aren't attractive.


Shave your leg hair and invest in a good razor. However, if you're not allowed to shave, keep your legs moisturized and do not be ashamed of them! Everyone is different and just because you can't shave doesn't mean you're less pretty.
Wax facial hair if you're allowed to (eyebrows, mustaches, etc.) or get a pair of tweezers. However, if you've never waxed or plucked facial hairs before, get a professional to do it for you. You could also ask your parents or a friend to help you.

When plucking your eyebrows, shape them by studying the natural arch. Make sure you don't make your eyebrows too thick or thin.
It isn't recommended that you wax your facial hairs on your own without a professional's guidance, for this could go disastrous. However, plucking facial hairs with tweezers is safer.


Keep your nails at an appropriate length. Clean the dirt and grime out of them regularly. Although you don't have to go to the spa to get a manicure and/or pedicure done, you can do this if you want or you could give yourself one at home.

When painting your nails, avoid purchasing bright neon colors, as these shades rarely match outfits. Instead, get something similar to a classic French manicure.
 Massage an effective shampoo that matches your hair type into your scalp before rinsing it out and applying a conditioner. Keep in mind that some conditioners require you to leave it in your hair for a few minutes in order for it to work, while other conditioners might not require that. After the conditioner has settled in, rinse it out with cold water to lock in moisture and shine. Avoid blow drying your hair too often, but try letting your hair air-dry instead, for this is a healthier and more natural choice for your hair. When arranging your hair into flattering hairstyles, be sure the type of hairstyle you choose won’t pull on your scalp or harm your hair in any way. Make sure the hairstyle matches your face type and complements it, and keep in mind that while certain hairstyles might appear flattering on others, it doesn’t necessarily mean it will look as good on you.


Some hairstyles you can try are sexy bedhead curls, amazing waves, half ponytails, buns, scrunched hair, clipped-back bangs, side bangs, fishtail braids, and ponytails.
Main face shapes are: heart, diamond, square, oval, and circle.

Heart-shaped faces have a round face with a pointed chin.
Diamond-shaped faces have a sharp forehead and chin with cheeks that jut out a little.
Square-shaped faces have a boxy face with a neat, square jaw.
Oval-shaped faces have a longer face.
Circle-shaped faces are overall round.


Avoid as much heat on your hair as possible, even if this means you can’t straighten your hair every day. Heat is your hair’s worst enemy. The more you apply heat to your hair, the limper, duller, and less manageable your hair will be.

If you must curl or straighten your hair, look up different methods to achieve your desired hair naturally without using heat.
If you must curl or straighten your hair using heat, put in an effective heat protection that won’t dry out your hair.


Limit your hair washing to only three times per week, for overwashing your hair can be an easy mistake to make.

If you have oily hair, wash it four times a week and try switching your shampoo and/or conditioner brand to a different one so that it eliminates the grime building up on your scalp.
 All body types are beautiful and will look even better with clothes that suit them (For example: short girls wouldn't want to stick to flared jeans while no girl who feels fat would want to wear horizontal stripes!). To be an “it” girl, you’ll want to aim for a girly-casual style. Graphic tees (logo shirts and V-necks with cool designs) without store names, cute tops – florals, plaids, solids that are flowy or inspiring – cardigans, vests, solid tees, shorts, Bermudas, camis with or without lace in solid colors and prints, jeans in dark and medium washes, etc.


For jewelry, purchase long, dangly necklace with unique charms, bangles, and diamond studs.
For shoes, have one pair of UGGs or FUGGs (fake UGGs) in either chestnut, black, sand or the brown color. Also, add in some brand of sneakers (Converse, Keds, or Vans in black are trendy). Perhaps you could even throw in some Sperry’s in linen/oat or chocolate. Also, own plenty of flip-flops and good quality tennis shoes.
 You won’t need a lot of makeup, but purchase some dark brown mascara and pencil eyeliner, an eyelash curler, eye shadow in a bronze-gold shade, and blush that goes with your skin type. You could also purchase some lip balm or clear lip gloss to prevent chapped or cracked lips. To apply your makeup:


Using your eyeliner, start the middle of the top eyelid. Make the liner thicker as you get to the end of the eye. Gently trace a line on the outside of your eye to make your eyes appear wider.
Heat up your eyelash curler and clamp it onto both of your eyelashes while slowly counting to five.
Quickly apply your mascara.
Apply blush to the apples of your cheeks. To find the apples of your cheeks, smile.
Apply the eyeshadow to your eyelids.
Apply concealer.
For an extra sparkle, apply a light coat of Vaseline onto your brown bone.
Finish off with lip gloss or lip balm.
 Make it your goal to exercise daily for at least thirty minutes. If you find that you don’t have the time and/or energy to slap in thirty minutes at one go, split the minutes up into three ten-minute sessions. You don’t necessarily have to take sports or a gym class to get in those minutes, but you could also create your own activities that get you moving, such as running in the park with your friends or a variety of mini activities that add up to thirty minutes (ex: jump-roping for five minutes, then running for ten minutes, etc.).
 A trendy "It" girl needs to know what's up! She should listen to a radio station of music she likes. Or, if you're really not sure, just listen to a hits radio station so you're in the know of what's at the top of the music charts! Read some magazines like Seventeen, Teen Vogue, and Girl's Life. Don't forget to read some real books! Great authors are Nicholas Sparks, Lisi Harrison, Lauren Myracle, Meg Cabot, and Jay Asher. Find some more authors you like.

