 You can submit articles to a variety of websites including Ezine and Squidoo. At the bottom of your article, add a resource box that describes you and links back to your website.;
, Search for keywords like "Submit Post," "Write for Us" or "Become a Contributor" to find sites on which you may be able to submit a guest blog. Also, look for relevant blogs within your niche and pitch an idea for a guest post.
 Choose high-quality blogs and post relevant comments. In your comment, include a link back to your site.
 Some subscription services connect reporters and authors who need answers to specific questions with bloggers who can answer those questions. The reporter or author usually credits the blogger in the form of a backlink to the author's blog.
 Choose popular sites like YouTube as well as sites that are unique to your industry. Link the videos back to your website or to relevant articles.
 Answers account. Answer questions related to your area of expertise and include a link in your answer.
 Watch sites like Reddit or Twitter to determine what people are talking about around the world. Use Photoshop to add text to a picture commenting on the topic, and post the meme to your Facebook or Twitter account to see if it goes viral.
 Choose a generic directory like DMOZ or a directory that is unique to your industry. Follow submission instructions carefully for a better chance of acceptance.
 Offer free samples of your product to bloggers or other experts who will provide a review that links back to your website.
 For example, link to your blog and post the link on Reddit, Digg or StumbleUpon.
 submit RSS feed to RSS directories, the new posts on your site will be automatically get posted.
 As much as many might not like this, you do need to listen to what Google tell us when trying to gain links. The search giant might not be everyones best friend all of the time, but if you take heed of their messages, you can only come up smelling of roses! Ultimately, you want editorial links; links that have a real reason to be there and not just added as part of a link exchange or simple directory.

