 While everyone should abide by this rule, it is especially true for those who are trying to gain weight. Eating often means eating five to six small meals a day and packing in those nutrients.


This doesn't mean eating junk food and sugars, it means lots of protein and carbs. You want to obtain a healthy weight, not build up your fat deposits. Unlike many of your peers, your snacks should be nutritious but calorie dense: think nuts, peanut butter, cheese, dried fruits and avocados.And that bedtime snack? Go for it!
Even though it's a good way to gain weight, it's unhealthy -- so pass on the sodas and coffee. Keep your liquids up with smoothies or shakes made with low-fat milk or juice for an energized calorie boost. And remember to drink 30 minutes before or after your meal; you don't want to be full before you even start eating.;
, You want a bigger, healthier looking body--not a thin frame with a bit of a paunch. Maximise the avocados, dairy products, nuts (including peanut butter), and meats; stay away from ice cream, fries and fatty junk foods.


Healthy fats can be obtained from foods like peanuts, cashews, and olive oil. Stay away from saturated fats (bad fats) gained from processed foods. If you're looking for a treat, good alternatives are bran muffins, yogurt, fruit pies and granola bars.
 Though it's a myth that protein builds muscle, it is an essential part of your diet.It's a building block of our entire body: muscles, bones, skin, hair, and blood. Go for high-protein foods to fill up.


Protein-rich foods include meat, cheese, milk, fish, and eggs. For vegetarians, protein can be found in soy products such as tofu as well as in combinations of foods, such as rice or corn with beans., Though they get a bad rap, carbs, too, help build muscle and facilitate all of your vital functions. Carbs are your body's main source of energy. Complex carbs are fine; it's the simple ones you want to avoid. They contain empty calories and will most likely be stored as fat because the sugars enter your bloodstream quickly and cause a spike in blood sugar levels.


Brown rice, pasta, potatoes and whole grains fall into the approved category. These sugars are released slowly into your bloodstream and provide a steady supply of energy over a long period of time without causing the insulin spike that leads to fat storage., Without even upping your food intake, changing your eating times can facilitate the weight gaining process. Have a big dinner late at night and after that? Pile on healthy snacks.


A recent study shows that people who snack after 8 p.m. have higher body mass indexes (BMIs) than people who don’t nosh at night, even though they don’t eat significantly more total daily calories.The researchers adjusted for many factors; timing seemed to be the one variable that correlated.

