 Maybe there is something you need to ask a friend, or homework you need to do? Note them down on something you carry around a lot, like your mobile phone.;
,,, Use a nice scented shampoo and conditioner.
,, It will calm down your brain so that you'll get to sleep easier and faster.
 Health experts recommend 8-9 hours for teenagers. For example, try going to bed at 10-10:30pm and waking up at 7:00

, If you can, choose a picture for the alarm that makes you smile, such as a funny picture of you and your friends. Give the alarm a name that is positive such as "You Rock!" or "You are Gorgeous!" as opposed to "Get Up."

, Who wants to get ready in the dark? Also, do not open your blinds that much, because people can see you getting dressed, depending where you live.
 You don't even have to wash your hair, since you did it last night, which means you don't have to go to school with wet hair or have to spend a bunch of time blow-drying it!

, Make sure to pick out an outfit that you like and feel comfortable in, because not having to worry about your outfit will make your day that much better. Wear your school uniform correctly if you have to.
 Breakfast is the most important meal of the day, after all. Lots of girls skip breakfast, which is horrible! Without breakfast, your brain doesn't have enough energy to function, so you won't be able to concentrate on your schoolwork, which will make you feel flustered and stressed. You can avoid all of those negative emotions by simply eating some cereal and an apple!

, , such as concealer or powder. Note that you don't need makeup to help you have a great day. If you feel confident without it, don't wear it! If you don't know how to apply makeup properly or you're too rushed in the morning and it looks sloppy, don't wear it! If your parents don't want you to wear makeup, don't wear it! Chances are, if you're in one of the 3 situations above, you'll feel better without makeup on anyway!

,,, You'll make them feel good about themselves, and you'll most likely get a few compliments back. Karma does good things sometimes!

, They will make you and other people feel great.
 Just try to feel confident, and remember that people are attracted to confidence. Chill and enjoy the day!

, Smiling and laughing reduces stress, as well as makes you healthier and releases endorphins that make you feel better! So laugh as much as you can, and don't forget to smile!

, Then simply start reading and the time flies by so quick you barely notice!

