 The chemicals used to produce these fragrances are among the top causes of allergic reactions and irritations, and may provoke a response from your baby’s skin.Look for baby care products labeled "hypoallergenic.";
,, There is no need to scrub the skin hard: skin cells fall off naturally as they age. Gentle washing of the child with your hands is usually all that is necessary unless the baby's skin is soiled. In that case, try the cotton balls. Once your baby is two to four weeks old, you can try alcohol- and perfume-free baby wipes, but watch to see if they irritate your baby's skin. You may find that cotton balls or a soft cloth with warm water are still your best option.
 Particularly with newborn babies, there is no need to use soaps or shampoos at all when cleaning them. Use warm water instead.Your baby has very effective, naturally occurring defenses, and washing her too often could remove these protective substances.


Human skin is naturally oily and this is a protective substance that preserves the skin integrity and should not be mistaken for unhygienic skin.
 Fabrics such as linen and cotton will allows the skin to breathe. Ensure that the clothes don’t fit tightly or rub against the skin, as that may cause blistering.Avoid the temptation to wrap your infant in too many clothes. Let his skin breathe and allow the skin to cool naturally. The same goes for bedtime.
 These will have been designed specifically to prevent irritating sensitive skin.Carry out some research online to see which brands are best for your needs, or ask your healthcare provider or local chemist.
 Changing your baby’s diaper or nappy as soon as she soils herself will help to prevent painful rashes from developing. Depending on your baby’s age, a nappy change may need to be carried out anywhere between six and twelve times a day.When your baby wets herself, be sure to clean the whole area gently, using cotton wool and warm water, and cleaning inside folds of skin.
If your baby has a bowel movement, you will still want to use water only if possible. If it's a particularly large or sticky bowel movement, or you were unable to change her immediately, use gentle soap, or alcohol and perfume-free wipes.
If the temperature is sufficiently warm, your baby can lie on the changing mat without a diaper on. Let her lie in the sun for a few minutes and dry naturally. Giving your baby a break from wearing a nappy all the time can reduce the risk of a rash developing.
 Some rashes your baby develops might be caused by the food he is eating. If he develops rashes after eating, remove the suspected food from your baby's diet and see if the rash recurs.If it does, continue removing one food at a time to see which, if any, are causing the rash.
Consult with your pediatrician to determine if a food allergy is causing your baby's skin to flare up.
At the same time, as your baby ages, don't be overprotective in terms of exposure to many different things. Allow him to pet the family dog or cat or play on the clean floor. This exposes him to surface bacteria that is beneficial to building a strong immune system.
 When it comes to washing your baby, less is more. Rather than give her a bath every day, you can ‘top and tail’ her – that is, wash her face, neck, hands and bottom carefully. Most doctors recommend a full bath two to three times a week.Always check the temperature on your water heater and make certain it is below 120°F (48.9°C). Many infants and children get scalded each year from parents forgetting to lower the heater temperature. Hot water is also more likely to dry out a baby's skin than warm water.
 Keep your baby’s bathtime short, typically under 20 minutes, because spending too much time in the bath can reduce natural oils and increase the risk of irritating his skin., Cover your baby’s body and ensure she is wearing a wide-brimmed hat. Again, loose cotton clothes are a good choice here. Keep your baby in shade.Very young babies should not use sunscreen. Instead, keep them out of direct sunlight altogether, particularly in the middle of the day.After the first six months, sunscreen is a viable option. Use plenty of broad-spectrum sunscreen, and reapply it often.Consult with your healthcare provider if you have any doubts about whether or not sunscreen is right for your child.
When selecting a sunscreen, look for one especially designed for babies with an SPF of 30 or higher.
 A rash may be a sign of a wider problem if your baby seems ill. If you become concerned, call your paediatrician. He will be able to provide diagnosis and advice. There are many possible reasons for your baby to develop a rash, and your paediatrician should be able to tell you whether your child has a skin condition or whether the rash has another cause such as an infection.


Babies that have very sensitive or dry skin, or that otherwise experience frequent or severe rashes may have eczema. Your Pediatrician can provide advice and medication if they find this to be a concern with your child.
 Many skin rashes a baby will develop are harmless, and will go away on their own.


This is particularly common with newborn babies. Erythema toxicum, a blotchy red skin reaction usually developed a few days after birth, will usually clear after a few days. Milia, tiny white spots on a newborn's face, will clear after a few weeks.If your baby develops sweat or heat rash, which is characterized by tiny red bumps or blisters, these will clear without treatment, but you should endeavour to reduce the amount of clothing your baby wears and put her in a more temperate environment.
 In some cases, washing the part of your baby upon which the rash has developed in warm water can help improve your baby's skin condition.


If your baby develops cradle cap, which is characterized by large and greasy yellow and brown scales, wash your baby's hair and scalp with water and baby shampoo. This will help prevent a build-up of scales. You can also gently massage your baby's scalp with your fingers or a soft baby brush after bathing.If your baby develops baby acne, wash your baby's face with water and a mild moisturizer. This will help improve its appearance. Do not use acne medicine for adults or older children. Contact your pediatrician if it becomes severe or does not clear up.