 One can elevate one thing (often an unimportant thing) over what matters in life in no time. This could be money, a relationship, an asset, a job or a person. Conduct a priority check on a regular basis to ensure you have life in perspective and that nothing that you value has become out of sync in relation to the rest of life. This could place you at a risk of becoming a victim of crime. Potential criminals often study their victims and view areas where the victim is highly emotionally invested as a possible weak link for penetration.


Think rationally. Participating in crimes will bring damage to the picture of your country.
Avoid any form of bad behavior, such as stealing, promoting campus violence, or starting political riots.;
, Vulnerability is beneficial as it keeps you connected with your 'humanness'. In current society, vulnerability should be run through a sieve of wisdom before being expressed. The reasons for this suggestion ties in with the point mentioned above.
 It has been said that 'bad company corrupts good character'. This is true. People also judge you on the company you keep. Often however, the seemingly most innocent person can turn out to be the most vicious at heart when provoked. This is therefore not a foolproof method, but one should keep a smaller circle of close friends whose actions and lifestyle you have observed in a variety of circumstances as opposed to exposing yourself to a large community of people without applying good judgement.
 Communes and buddy-living are fast becoming a thing of the past. Bachelor apartments are in for those who prefer to go solo and families are even fast reducing their living space. This simple living concept is supported by those encouraging the prevention of crime. The reason for suggesting this is that you can easily invite a vicious criminal into your home or onto your property without being aware of it. Don't pick up strangers and invite them into your home. Don't easily go home with strangers either.
 This depends on the area you live in. Some areas are more prone to crime than others and therefore this needs to be placed into perspective. Comply with your Insurance Companies' minimum security requirements. Insurance Companies have a large database of losses per area that are made available to them. The better Companies make security suggestions to their clients based on loss history specific to the area they reside in. Although not foolproof, precautionary measures are recommended for a reason. Try to have a little more security fitted than your neighbours. The reason for this is their house may seem more attractive to an opportunist potential thief or armed robber at crunch time.
 Although a vicious murder can be committed with an item like a garden spade, one should be careful and responsible when it comes to your living environment. Keeping dangerous objects, like firearms safely locked away according to the legislation of your country when not in use.
 Keep valuables like expensive jewellery under lock and key when not in use.
 Some countries promote having maids, home-assistants, au-pairs etc. Try to use a reputable agency to locate these people. Check their credentials and references. Many thefts and armed robberies, once investigated, point straight to the home-assistant.
 Some countries have neighbourhood watches or resort to protecting their communities by fencing off certain residential streets and appointing a guard to man a boom gate entrance point for these areas. All these things are not fool-proof, but serve as deterrents. Thieves will often rather bother the suburb next door that doesn’t have these little inconveniences.
 In some countries, this is still safe, but in most, this is viewed as a high risk and due precaution should be exercised. There is an element of safety in numbers and to deny this is foolishness.
 Suspecting criminals watch for routine in a potential victim’s lifestyle. The more information they have about the victim, the better. Try to not arrive at home or leave for work at exactly the same time every day. Control freaks who live by strict agendas, time frames and strict routines are at risk of being victims of crime. Being overly controlling of your environment is not going to protect you from this possible risk. Everything in balance is the key.
 Ensure you keep your life clean and pure at all times. Live above reproach. This way, nobody will be able to blackmail you, be successful in bribing you to protect information or correctly point fingers of blame at you. Guard your heart, and your reputation.
 Communal or town-house living is promoted as the safest living option, but this is not always the case. The traffic into and out of the property is somewhat controlled, but living in your own house (if possible) where you have better control over the traffic in and out of it is probably the safer option.
 Don’t leave your assets at a person’s home if you can avoid it. Don’t be quick to loan items to a person, even to a friend. If you are prepared to do that, consider getting it back a treat. This is also a sure way to damage a friendship, rather than build it.
 The basics like holding tightly on to your handbag in public places, being aware of potential pickpockets, not flashing cash in public or not leaving your cellphone or handbag on the car seat next to you or in public view whilst driving always apply.

