 Once there, you will be prompted to start the application process.To start the process, create an account by selecting the state you live in and creating a username and password., When you apply for health coverage, the federal marketplace will ask you to verify certain information with documentation. The federal website offers a checklist of documents to gather and includes:


Information about your household;
Your address;
Your Social Security number;
Tax filings;
W-2 forms;
Income estimates; and
Information about your current health plan., When you start the application process, the website will prompt you to answer a number of important questions. Follow the instructions on the screen and answer every question completely and honestly. While the questions will vary depending on how you answer them, you will generally be asked to provide:


Your estimated income;
Your age and health history; and
Your tax information., Understanding the different types of marketplace plans can help you choose the right insurance. Here are examples:


Exclusive Provider Organization (EPO): A managed care plan where services are covered only if you use doctors, specialists, or hospitals in the plan’s network (except in an emergency).
Health Maintenance Organization (HMO): A type of health insurance plan that usually limits coverage to care from doctors who work for or contract with the HMO. It generally won't cover out-of-network care except in an emergency. An HMO may require you to live or work in its service area to be eligible for coverage. HMOs often provide integrated care and focus on prevention and wellness.
Point of Service (POS): A type of plan where you pay less if you use doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers that belong to the plan’s network. POS plans require you to get a referral from your primary care doctor in order to see a specialist.
Preferred Provider Organization (PPO): A type of health plan where you pay less if you use providers in the plan’s network. You can use doctors, hospitals, and providers outside of the network without a referral for an additional cost.
 When you are done answering the questions, you will be offered a number of plans you are eligible for. Read through the plans and choose the best one. The option overviews will give you an idea of the monthly premium, the deductible, and the maximum out-of-pocket total.For example, you could choose a plan that featured a low monthly premium and higher deductible or a plan where you paid a higher monthly fee and a reduced annual deductible.
Additionally, depending on your income, you may be able to receive a tax credit for part of the premium, thus lowering the monthly cost.

