 If you are going to file a motion to ask the court to modify an existing spousal support order, you need the help of a lawyer. A lawyer will be able to craft your argument in a way that persuades the judge in your favor. In addition, the lawyer will know the legal standards and processes that must be met and followed. Because you have likely already gone through a divorce with a lawyer, consider hiring the same lawyer to help you here.


If you do not have a good lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few questions you will put in contact with qualified lawyers in your area.
 In order to modify an existing spousal support order without an agreement between the parties, you will have to file a motion asking the court to change the order on your behalf. To do this, your lawyer will either need to draft his or her own motion or fill out court approved forms. While your lawyer will fill the forms out, it is important you obtain your own copies so you know what your lawyer needs from you. Court forms are usually available at the courthouse and on the court's website. In general, you will need the following documents:A request for order
An income and expense declaration
A spousal support declaration attachment

, Once you obtain copies of all the required forms, look through them to understand what type of information your lawyer will need from you. These forms will be used to show the judge why you qualify for a spousal support modification. Therefore, you will need to provide your lawyer with enough information so he or she can draft your forms to meet the legal standard in your state for a modification. In general, you will need to know the following information:


What you are requesting (i.e., a spousal support modification) and the amount you are requesting (i.e., how much you want your new payments to be).Your employment information, tax information, supplementary income information, a list of assets, and your average monthly expenses.The facts surrounding your request, which will include why your employment status changed, how it changed, and when it changed. You will also need to describe the job skills you have and the current job market outlook for you based on those skills., Once the proper forms have been filled out, you will need to file them with the same courthouse where your existing spousal support order was executed. When you go to the courthouse to file your paperwork, be sure you bring at least two copies along with the originals. The court will keep the originals but will give you one copy to serve on your ex-spouse and another copy to keep for your records. When you successfully file your paperwork, the clerk of courts will stamp your documents as "filed".


When you file your paperwork, you may be required to pay a filing fee. The filing fee will vary from state to state, and even county to county. If you cannot afford the filing fee, you may be able to ask for a waiver., After your paperwork is filed, the clerk will set a hearing date and write that date on your paperwork.Make sure you remember this date and put it on your calendar.
 Once everything is finalized at the courthouse, you will have to serve a copy of your paperwork on your ex-spouse. When you serve another party, you are notifying them of the action against them and giving them a chance to respond. In order to serve someone, you need to hire a server who is over the age of 18 and who is unrelated to the case. The server will physically hand your paperwork to the other party or mail it to them.Once the other party has been served, they will have a short period of time to respond before the hearing.
 After the server serves your ex-spouse, they will need to fill out a proof of service form and return it to you. A proof of service form asks the server to swear, under oath, that they have properly served the other party. This form is used to let the court know that everything has been done properly.


Once the proof of service form has been filled out by your server, you will need to file it with the court., On the date of your hearing, arrive at the courthouse early so you have time to park, get through security, and get settled. You will not be allowed in the courthouse with weapons, drugs, or anything else that could hurt others. Also, make sure you bring copies of all your paperwork, particularly documents that support your argument that circumstances have changed due to an employment status change. Once through security, find your courtroom and wait for your case to be called.


When your case is called, move to the front of the courtroom. Your lawyer will present your case to the judge. Your lawyer will probably present financial information, testimony from your previous and present employers, and any other information that will help make your case.If the judge asks you questions, answer them briefly but honestly. Stick to the facts and do not ramble.
 When the hearing is over, the judge will make a decision and sign a new spousal support order. In some courtrooms, the clerk will draft the order. In other courtrooms, you will be asked to prepare the order yourself.If you succeed with your motion to modify the spousal support order, the new order will reflect the modification and you will be required to pay the new amount.
If your ex-spouse succeeds in defending against your motion, it will be denied and the original order will remain in effect. If you do not agree with the judge's decision, you might be able to appeal to a higher court. An appeal is only available when the judge made a legal error (as opposed to a factual one).

