 If you aren’t happy with the search results, or if you have a more specific idea of what you are searching for, you can try Google Scholar’s advanced search options. These options allow you to do things like search for results within a certain date range, find results in a certain language, order the results from most recent to oldest, and look for articles written by a particular author or published in a particular journal.You can access the advanced search options in a few ways: by clicking the downward-pointing arrow at the right edge of the search box when you first pull up the Google Scholar page, or by using the menu to the left of the search results to filter them after you have already begun your research.
For example, if you are interested in what has been written about Vietnamese culture since 2016, you can enter ‘Vietnamese Culture’ in the Google Scholar search box, then click “Since 2016” on the left-hand menu once the service pulls up the search results.
 Google Scholar, like the regular Google Search engine, is designed to be used intuitively, simply by entering the key terms of what you are interested in. However, you can run a more precise search by coupling your search terms with Boolean connectors. For instance:Entering a minus sign (“-”) before a search term will eliminate it from the results. For instance, if you are researching Vietnamese culture but do not want to find results related to the Vietnam War, searching for ‘Vietnamese culture -war’ will stop Google Scholar from giving results that use the key term “war.”
By typing OR (must be capitalized) between search terms, Google Scholar with retrieve results containing either term. If you are interested in the culture of both Vietnam and Thailand, you can search for ‘Vietnam OR Thailand culture’.
 Google Scholar allows users to run more precise searches by entering other text instructions into the search bar. Familiarizing yourself with these can help you find more relevant sources. Some of the most common commands include:Searching for an exact phrase by putting it in quotation marks. Putting the search terms Vietnamese culinary traditions will return all sources containing the words traditions, culinary, and Vietnamese, while searching for “Vietnamese culinary traditions” (in quotation marks) will only return with results with that phrase--those exact words, in that exact order.
Requesting sources with a particular term in the title by using the command “intitle:”. If you want to find works on Vietnamese food traditions with the word “culinary” in the title, search for ‘Vietnamese intitle:culinary’.
Restricting results to those by a particular author by entering “author:” before the name. For example, if you want to find works on Vietnamese culture by M. Thomas, enter ‘Vietnamese culture author:Thomas, M.’

, If you find a source that you find interesting or relevant to your topic, clicking the “Related articles” link at the bottom of a source’s citation information will return results that are connected to that source. For example, the results may include other sources by the same author, ones that use the same keywords, or ones that have similar titles.
 Sometimes, you want to find high-impact sources that are cited by many other sources. Google Scholar will track certain instances when source generate citations in other works. Just look for the link “Cited by” followed by a number (e.g., “Cited by 17”) to see how many of these citations Google Scholar has tracked. Clicking on the link will pull up a separate list of those sources that cite the original source you found.Keep in mind that Google Scholar only tracks citations in works that the service already indexes, and that the “Cited by” number is not the absolute number of citations. This means, for instance, that it will not show if a source is cited in a journal that Google Scholar does not include in its searches.

