 The recommendations your doctor will have for treatment will be based on how far along in your pregnancy you are. Generally, your doctor will recommend one of the treatments listed in this section, as well as rehydration at home, which is outlined in the second section of this article.If you are not yet in full term, your doctor will monitor you and your levels very closely. Tests such as non-stress and contraction stress tests may be done to monitor your baby’s activity. Your doctor may also suggest one of the following medical treatments listed in this method.
If you are close to full term, your doctor may recommend that you deliver your baby via cesarean section as low amniotic fluid levels right before pregnancy can be dangerous for both you and your baby.;
, In this process, your doctor will inject the leaking amniotic fluids back into the amniotic sac with a needle. This will help your condition because it will increase the amount of amniotic fluid in your uterus. This procedure is a lot like amniocentesis (a way to check your amniotic fluid levels), except that instead of withdrawing the amniotic fluid, the doctor injects the leaking amniotic fluids back into the amniotic sac with a needle. This procedure is often used as a short term fix because amniotic fluid levels tend to drop again after a couple of weeks. However, doctors choose to use this method because it helps them to find the problem that is causing your amniotic fluid levels to be low.
 Some pregnant women are admitted to the hospital for additional intravenous fluid therapy if natural means of rehydration (like drinking lots of water) are not able to increase the amount of amniotic fluid. If you have tried rehydrating at home with no changes in amniotic fluid levels, you will most likely have to get an IV to stay hydrated.Once your amniotic fluid levels are back to normal, you will most likely be discharged.
Keep in mind that sometimes IV therapy will continue until you are ready to give birth if you are having troubles staying hydrated.
 Amnioinfusion is when Lactated Ringer’s Solution or a regular saline solution is infused into the amniotic fluid sac by a catheter. Doing this increases the amniotic fluid levels around your baby and provides extra padding for your baby and the umbilical cord.The amount of saline injected will depend on how low your amniotic fluid levels are.
 Shunts are used to move body fluid from one place in your body to another. In this case, a shunt diverts fetal urine into your amniotic fluid cavity if the reason you have low amniotic fluid levels is because of fetal obstructive uropathy (kidney problems that decrease amniotic fluid).