 This pipe is considered "pure" because all you need to make it is an apple and stick-like device, such as a pen, with a tip sharp enough to poke a hole in the apple.


Make sure the apple you use is fresh. A soft apple could collapse while you're trying to bore the holes.
It's ideal to use the type of ball-point pen with a tip you can unscrew so you can take out the ink well. Otherwise, you may spill ink all over the apple. Once you take out the ink well, screw the tip back on.
Don't use a pencil. It's likely to break inside the apple while you're trying to make a hole with it.;
, You can use your fingers to twist or pull it off or cut a slit around the stem to remove it. Make sure you get the entire stem; if it breaks, dig into the hole with your fingers and remove it from the base.
 Place the pointed tip over the hole where the stem used to be and jam the pen into the apple at a slight angle. Push it into the apple until you've made a hole that extends about halfway through the apple.


If the apple is difficult to push through, it may help to use a twisting motion as you push.
Once you make the initial hole with the pen's tip, you can remove the pen, unscrew the tip, and use the tip-less pen to push into the apple. The apple will slide into the hollow pen. When you're finished making the hole, remove the pen and discard the apple piece.
 It should be about half an inch from the hole at the apple's base. Insert the pen and poke a hole that meets up with the first hole you poked.
 Insert the pen into the apple an inch or a little more from the top hole. Push the pen into the apple until the third hole meets up with the chamber system you have created. This hole will serve as the carb, so it should be in a place that is convenient to cover with a finger while you're lighting the pipe.
 Use the pen or another object to carve out a hollow shape on the top of the apple where the first hole was drilled. Make it big enough to hold the material you want to smoke.
 Fill the bowl with the material you want to smoke. Hold the apple in one hand with your finger covering the carb, the small hole on the side of the apple. Use your other hand to light the bowl, and suck in with your mouth through the hole near the bottom of the apple.

