 Many of us bury our feelings if they become too intense or embarrassing, thereby denying their presence. Doing so can prolong the healing process, simply because we fail to confront the root causes of those feelings.


Remember, those intense emotions, as threatening as they may seem, are only temporary. There is no shame in feeling sad or angry in certain circumstances, and denying those emotions only means you’re pushing them deeper inside where they might do more damage – both psychological and physical. Expressing your pain is the first step in making it stop. , Instead of only feeling your emotions, force yourself to put them into words. Even if you only do this in a journal or in your own head, it helps you to clarify exactly what you’re feeling and understand it better. Identifying intense feelings can slow or attenuate emotional responses.Monitor your internal dialogue. People who are experiencing strong emotions tend to think in very black or white terms, such as "Everything is terrible" or "This is hopeless." Instead, try to reframe your thoughts to something less extreme, such as "This is frustrating, but I'll get through it" or "I have a right to be disappointed, but getting angry won't help anything."
Try to avoid terms such as "always" and "never." That kind of polarized thinking will only escalate the intensity of your negative emotions and allow you to feel justified for feeling that way., Once you've identified what tends to make you lose your temper or feel unpleasant emotions, there may be times you'll want to simply avoid that situation instead of allowing it to trigger you. If your kid's room is always such a mess that you feel rage when you see it, close the door or look the other way when you walk past.


Of course, this isn't a solution for all situations, as many can't and shouldn't be avoided. But in those cases where it's impossible to make any progress and the situation can be avoided, don't be afraid to do so.
 For instance, if you feel yourself getting red in the face and angry when you're talking with someone, take a moment to pause to perceive what emotion you are feeling, and then put a name to it.


Once you’ve learned to identify your emotions, you can own them when you speak to others. For instance, try not to use words such as “You make me feel bad,” when you’re talking to others. Instead, say “I feel bad because of...” Doing so will allow your tone not to sound accusatory, and the person with whom you are talking will come to a better understanding of how you are experiencing your emotions. Slow down when you're expressing yourself. When you're feeling a flood of emotions, it's possible that you'll have so many thoughts that you won't be able to keep up with them. In these moments, try to slow down and take one thought at a time.Think very carefully about what you want to say and what is the right way to say it.

