 Some of the most common signs of dyslexia are


Person shows a considerable amount of intelligence/potential, but has difficulty/does not seem able to read, write, speak, or spell at the normal ability for their age.
Person shows/experiences confusion with letters, numbers, words, and sentences.
Person does better presenting/showing orally than in written/typed forms.
Shows and/or complains of visual issues, even if medical tests fail to turn up with any abnormalities.
Seems to be unable to write without spelling by ear.;
, A dyslexic person tends to remember better with experience than being taught orally. Gather people the possible dyslexic has not met and gain permission to take their picture. Introduce the people with the dyslexic in question, including their name. Later in the day, teach them math or English lessons that the average person in their age group should know or learn. Follow up in a week, asking them to comprehend the educational lessons, then have them name and describe the people they met. Get a notebook and give them a point in a dyslexic column if they remember the people better than the educational knowledge.
 Dyslexics tend to try to put off reading or writing. This can be hard or confusing to test, but there's a technique. Talk about reading or writing something down pertaining to them, or ask them to read or write something. They'll most likely try to avoid the available task. Not only is this a test of avoidance, but also confidence. Dyslexics often feel self-conscious. If they avoid reading or writing, give a point to the dyslexic column.
 Play a sport with them, do yoga with them, or watch them write. Dyslexics tend to be off balance and/or jittery. Handwriting is often sloppy, or hand-eye coordination is abnormal. This is a simple test, with little to no skill or materials involved.
 Observe if the person has trouble with managing time or telling time. Don't force the person to manage their time for the experiment, and rather watch their reactions. Dyslexics often have a hard time with organizing time and numbers (telling time). All you'll need is a clock for this one, to see how often or if they check it.

