 The Villager is a very fundamental unit in all versions of Age of Empires—the very foundation on which an empire is built. Villagers gather the economic resources (wood, food, gold, etc.) that are needed to propel the empire forward and construct various structures/buildings. If push comes to shove and you have no military, villagers can defend the empire as well!


In most Age of Empires versions, your first and most important training building, the Town Center, is already constructed for you from the start of the game. You will also usually already have a small amount of each resource to get your empire up and running. To select your Town Center, just left-click it.
Town Centers are different depending on the Home City or Civilization you are working with. If you are unsure which building is your Town Center, press the game-specific hotkey on your keyboard to immediately select it (e.g., T for all versions of Age of Empires 3 and H for all versions of Age of Empires 2).;
, Once the Town Center is selected, a panel will appear in the bottom left corner of the screen (for Age of Empires 3) or in the bottom right corner (for Age of Empires 2) with different buttons for the different functions that your Town Center can perform.


The “Train Villager” button is the very first one on the panel—the one with a picture of a worker. Click the button once to train one Villager.
The time it takes to train a single Villager is 30 seconds on average, but it depends on the age your empire is in (i.e., Stone Age, Tool Age, Imperial Age, etc.). The more advanced the age, the faster you can create villagers. Other buildings, such as the Temple in Age of Empires 2 and the Monastery in Age of Empires 3, provide research advancements that allow Villagers to train faster.
Once they’re trained, Villagers will appear outside the Town Center.
 Clicking the “Train Villager” button many times will create a training queue. The Town Center will, however, only create one Villager at a time.
 If ever you want or need to cancel Villager training, you can do so before the process is complete by left-clicking the Town Center and clicking the training progress icon on the panel that appears. This is an icon showing the progress of the training using a swathe of green color. Clicking this icon will immediately halt the process of creating the villager and return 100 Food (the cost of 1 Villager) to your resource stockpile.


If, for example, you chose to train 5 villagers, there will be 5 icons on the panel. Clicking any of the icons will remove it from the panel and reduce the number of villagers in training to 4. Clicking another icon will reduce them to 3, and so on. If you click all of the 5 icons before any of the villagers has been created, the entire process will be cancelled and the total resource cost (500 Food) will be returned to your stockpile.

