 If you notice pain or pressure in your heel, schedule an appointment with your doctor. Let them know what symptoms you’ve been experiencing, and that you are looking to avoid any injury to your Achilles tendon.Try to rest your leg and foot as much as possible in between when you notice symptoms and when you are able to see your doctor.
Treatment consists of activity modification, relative rest, ice, stretching, and strengthening. Stretching and strengthening are best guided by a physical therapist.
 A certified personal trainer can help you develop an exercise routine that will meet your fitness goals and still consider what impact your body can handle. Meet with a personal trainer to develop a cross-training exercise schedule that will help you maximize results while minimizing risk of injury.Let the trainer know that you want to pay particular attention to avoiding Achilles tendon injuries. Ask them, “Do you have any recommendations for stretches or exercises to help me protect my Achilles tendon?”

, If you believe you may already have some stress or damage to the Achilles tendon area, consider physical therapy to help you recover. Physical therapy may include exercise, massage, and other physical treatments to help you strengthen and regain control of your tendon.Always talk to your doctor before starting with a physical therapist. In many cases, physical therapists may need a doctor recommendation to begin the process.
Check with your insurance to see if physical therapy is covered with a doctor’s referral, or if you may need to pay on your own.
 If you believe that you have already injured your Achilles tendon, seek the help of a doctor immediately. A podiatrist will likely be the most helpful, but you may need a referral from your general practitioner to see one.


Depending upon the severity of the injury, your doctor may recommend treatments such as changing your exercise routine, physical therapy, or surgery.
Carefully follow your doctor's recommendations for your injury and ask them, "What should I do to avoid injuring the area in the future?"

