 The body should be single spaced, with an extra line between paragraphs.



 ;
, In all capital letters, write the word “CONTACT,” followed by a colon and the contact person’s name (whoever is relevant for your release). Underneath, include their telephone number and email address. These should be separated by a comma.

Telephone number should include area code and use periods (.) to separate each section of the number.
 Your university news team will only pay attention to stories they think are important and relevant, and that is most obvious in the headline.

Insert a line of blank space before and after the headline, separating it from the contact information above and the body of the release below.
Include your university’s name in the story headline, or their abbreviation. If applicable, also include the name of your specific college within the university. This way, when the story goes out to media, it is immediately obvious that the story is about your school.
 Despite what the name might imply, a dateline is the location your story takes place. It is written in all capital letters. This is written at the very beginning of the release, separated from the body only by a long hyphen (—).

The city should be spelled out completely, followed by a comma (,) and the appropriate state abbreviation. Make sure you follow AP Style for these abbreviations, and to ensure your city needs the state included (some large cities may stand alone without the state name).
 Consumers read a lot of their news online, so make your release interactive. If you reference anything within your university – a specific college, a professor, your alumni association – add a link to their website.

It is only necessary to link to the same page one time in each release, so link on first reference only. This will keep your audience engaged with the story, and give them additional resources if they have an interest.
 In a typical press release, the end is marked by three pound symbols (###). For a more updated style, and one that reiterates where the information is coming from, add a line of space after the end of the body and close with the initials of your university. This should be written all in bold, with a hyphen (-) on either side of the letters.

Include your initials and the date in the closing as well. Place your initials (in lowercase) underneath the university’s initials, separated by one blank line. You will include the date here as well, so the media knows the timeliness and immediacy of your release.
For this section, each element should be separated by a forward slash (/), including the date, with no spaces between.
 You want your reader to be engaged in the story, and to keep coming back to you and your university for more information. In order to do this, you will want to place your university’s website, or more specifically your university’s news website, at the bottom of the story, as well as any social media accounts that would be helpful to them., Check to see if your university has a style guide for things such as typeface and font size. If so, follow those instructions. If not, stick with something simple, readable and professional. Some good typeface options would be Arial, Times New Roman or Helvetica, typically in size 12 font., The lead, or first sentence, should always be attention grabbing and informative. While some of your basic information should be provided (who, what, where, when, why, how) not all of it needs included in this sentence. The most important part of the lead is grabbing the audience’s attention so they will read the rest of the release.

Use a play on words to make your first sentence pop.
 One of the most important elements of a press release is that it follows AP Style, which is the style of writing the media uses. If the original content already follows those guidelines, it creates much less work for the editor, not only at your University but also at the media outlets the release gets sent to. This is the most timely aspect of editing, as there are all sorts of little nuances that encompass AP Style.