 One way to stop smoking hookah is to be physical. Engaging in physical activities not only improves overall physical health, but helps your brain release endorphins. Participating in different activities can help you forget about smoking hookah.Try any kind of exercise. This includes walking, jogging, cycling, swimming, hiking, gym classes, strength training, dancing, barre, sports, or anything else that gets you moving and your heart pumping.
Even just moving around as you do daily activities, like taking the dog for a walk and doing housework, can increase your physical activity and help you focus on other things than the hookah smoking.
 If you are trying to quit smoking hookah, you may have to stop hanging around people who smoke hookah. Surround yourself with people who know your goals and support you. Limit temptation as much as you can.If you want to keep your hookah smoking friends, then tell your hookah smoking friends about your decision to quit smoking. Make decisions to meet up at places where you don’t smoke hookah.
 Since hookah smoking is a habit, try replacing one habit for a healthier one. Find a hobby or new activity to take up your time and distract you from your desire to smoke hookah.Try taking a class, like a painting class or a cooking class. Read a book or go to the park. Cook a healthy meal or play a game with your family and friends. Anything you can do to distract you from the desire to smoke hookah is a good activity.
 Many people smoke hookah as a stress relief. To help avoid giving into this temptation when you are stressed is to learn to handle your stress. Try yoga, meditating, or deep breathing exercises. Even taking a stroll around the block can help reduce stress., Quitting smoking is an extremely difficult endeavor. It may take you a few times before you are successful. Remember to stay positive. You are making healthy changes for your life. Even if you have a setback, like you go back to smoking hookah, remember this is a journey. Don’t give up.Look back at your list of reasons you want to quit. Remind yourself why it is so important to you to make this change.
Reach out to your support group and your friends and family. Don’t be afraid to lean on people during the hard times so they can help you succeed.

