 It should be well blended and mixed. When done, set it aside for later.









To make richer churros, you can add 1-2 more eggs, though this is totally up to taste.;
, If you don't have a candy thermometer, keep everything on medium-low, and you'll be ready just as small amounts of "smoke" is rising from the top of the oil. If you drop a small test ball of dough in, the oil should immediately start bubbling.


A thick-bottomed pan is always your best bet, as they hold heat much better than thinner pans.
You can also wait to pre-heat the oil until after you've made the dough. However, this can take some time, so starting now is a good idea if you think you can do the dough quickly. If you do, just keep the burner on medium, not high, to prevent burning., Stir it frequently, until everything is well dissolved and the mixture is bubbling nicely. Once it is a consistent, boiling mixture, immediately lower the heat to low.
 This takes some arms, so really get in there with a wooden spoon to stir everything up into it is well blended. Turn the heat off when done.
, There are a lot of ways to turn your ball of dough into long, delicious churros, and none of them are wrong. Use whatever works for you, making long, thin, cylindrical treats:



Pinch and Roll: The simplest method, simply pull off a 2" ball of dough and roll it between your hands to form a snake-like shape, roughly 1/2" thick.

Decorative Piper: Usually used for icing, these have star-shaped tips that will get the ridges found on fairground churros. Pack the dough where the icing goes and then push it through to make perfect, even logs of dough.DIY Decorative Piper: Take a large freezer back and fill it with dough. Then cut the bottom corner off the bag to form a small opening. Squeeze the dough through this whole to make your logs., The total cooking time will depend on how thick the churros are, but you should be able to tell easily when they are done, as the outsides will be an alluring golden brown. Don't put more than 3-4 churros in the pan at once -- too much will drop the temperature of the oil rapidly, leading to greasy churros.
 Set them aside on a plate of paper towels, then lightly pat down the tops with more paper towels to get rid of excess oil.
 You've got your finished churros! Combine them in as much or as little cinnamon sugar as you want -- they'll be delicious either way.









Some people take things a step further by drizzling the finished churros in chocolate sauce, too.