 This dress combines a pillowcase and a tank top to make a cute, jumper-like dress. The key to making this dress fit properly is to use a tank top that is already somewhat loose on your child. If you use a tank top that must stretch a lot in order to fit your child, the dress may end up too tight; the skirt part won't stretch. Here is a list of what you will need:


Tank top
Pillowcase
Sewing machine
Thread
Scissors
Pins

, The tank top should fit your child well, but still be just a little on the loose side. Keep in mind that the skirt part of the dress will not stretch, so if the tank top is already tight on your child, the dress will end up too small.


Try using a solid-colored tank top and a pillowcase with a pattern on it. This will be the most pleasing to the eye. Patterns on both the tank top and the pillowcase may clash or make the dress appear too busy.
You can also use a fitted t-shirt as well, just make sure that it is not too tight on your child.
 If you need to, you can put the shirt on the child first; it may help you decide where you want the skirt part to begin. You can have the skirt begin a few inches below the arm hole or even at the waist. The choice is up to you. The tank top will become the bodice part of the dress.
 Try to cut through both layers at the same time. This will make it more even. Set the tank top aside.
 You will be sewing the pillowcase onto the tank top to make the skirt, so make sure to include add ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) to the total length.









How much you cut off of the pillowcase will depend on how tall your child is, or how long you want the skirt to be. For a tall child or a long skirt, cut less off. For a small child or a shorter skirt, cut more off.
 The first row should be ¼ inch (0.64 centimeters) away from the cut edge. The second row should be ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) away from the edge.Do not overlap, knot, or trim the threads. These are basing stitches, and you will be pulling them to gather the skirt later.









Try to use the longest possible stitch on your sewing machine, and a lower tension.
Using two rows of stitches helps make the gathering easier. It will also make things more even.
 Do not turn the tank top inside out. The right sides of both the pillowcase and the tank top should be touching.
 The cut edges of the tank top should be aligned with the cut edges of the pillowcase. The pillowcase will likely be much wider than the tank top. This is normal; you will be gathering the pillowcase later. Just make sure that the side seam of the pillowcase is touching the back of the tank top., Find the ends of the basting stitches you made earlier. Gently tug on the threads and begin gathering the top of the pillowcase. Keep gathering until the pillowcase is the same width as the tank top. Knot the threads and snip off the excess.
 This will help keep everything in place when you go to sew. Keep the pins a few inches apart, and pin all the way around the waist line of the dress. Be sure that the cut edge of the tank top and the pillowcase are matching up, or the skirt will be uneven.
 The tank top will likely stretch a little. Be sure to knot and trim the threads when you are done.
 You can use a serger to finish off the hem. You can also use a zigzag stitch.
 At this point, your child can wear the dress, but you can also topstitch the waist hem down. To do this, pin the waist hem against the tank top. Next, topstitch it down; try to get as close as possible to the seam line.
 When you are done sewing, go over the dress. Make sure that there are no hanging threads. If you find any, knot them tightly, then snip them off as close as possible to the knot.








