 Since sleep is one of the predominant areas affected by hyperarousal, you can benefit by building a personalized sleep routine that promotes relaxation. You can overcome problems falling asleep and staying asleep by following a few tips for good sleep hygiene.


Stick to a sleep schedule, going to bed and rising at the same times each day
Avoid naps after 3pm, if they prevent you from falling to sleep
Stop drinking caffeine after lunch time, and no smoking before bed
Exercise at least six hours before bed
Avoid heavy meals before bedtime
Increase the comfort of your sleep environment by dimming the lights and lowering the temperature
Shut off electronic devices like TVs and smartphones at least an hour before bedtime
Relax by taking a bath, listening to soothing music, or doing some light reading, In addition to medications, alternative strategies may also be effective at helping you sleep better with PTSD. In some cases, herbal remedies like melatonin and valerian root may help you get to sleep faster.Meanwhile, practices such as meditation, yoga, and acupuncture may promote the calm needed to achieve better quality and quantity sleep.Before following any new complementary treatment, be sure to talk to your doctor. Some herbal remedies can interfere with your medications or worsen symptoms.
 Individuals with PTSD have an increased risk of developing substance abuse problems. You might be tempted to mask your symptoms by using drugs or pouring yourself a drink at night to relax. But, be warned that these activities only cover up the problem—they don’t help you cope or get better. Substances like alcohol may help you get to sleep, but it actually decreases the quality of sleep you receive.In addition, drinking caffeine will also exacerbate your symptoms, possibly making you even more jumpy and preventing sleep at night.
Lay off the caffeine completely, but if that seems too difficult cut it after lunch. Quit drugs, smoking, and alcohol altogether. Talk to your therapist about referring you to a 12-step program or self-help support group to increase your chances of success.

