 Mindfulness includes focusing on the present moment, here and now. Often, this is done through connecting with your body because your body uses sensations to connect to the present moment. Have a daily meditation practice or make your daily activities a meditation by practicing mindfulness through observing your breath, especially when you’re experiencing intense emotions. Tune into your everyday sensations such as feeling the water hitting your skin as you shower, observing the way your muscles and bones shift as you walk or climb stairs, or tuning into what noises you hear around you. Allow thoughts and feelings to pass through your mind without judging them or reacting to them.This can help you stay detached from negative experiences.


Practicing mindfulness can help increase positive emotions, increase gray matter in the brain, and boost compassion toward others and yourself.Drop in on a meditation class or find a phone application to help you practice mindfulness meditation.;
, Imagine your life in the future when you are at your best. Consider all aspects of your life: health, hobbies/activities, career, friends, and family. Don’t get caught up in how your life does not reflect these now and focus solely on the future. Get creative and continue writing for 15 minutes, diving into the depths of what you will be doing, what things you will enjoy, and who you will spend time with. People who do this exercise report feeling more positive even one month after completing it.Imagining your best possible self can help you figure out your goals, dreams, and desires. It can help you identify your dreams and create steps to get you there.
Think about what your best possible self looks like. What job do you have? Where do you live? Do you have pets? What kinds of things do you do for fun? Who are your friends and what do you like about them?

, If you need a boost at home, in the car, or at work, keep some positive affirmations around to maintain an optimistic approach. You can also practice saying positive affirmations before your workday, events, or other situations where you may need a boost of positivity. Get in the habit of saying a meaningful affirmation when you wake up, when you’re on your way to work, or before you attempt something challenging. This can help train you to approach situations more positively. The benefits of affirmations can last months and years.For example, when you wake up, say to yourself, “I am capable and able to approach the day with kindness and love,” “I can be successful at work today and every day,” or "I can be happy about some things today."

, Keeping your body healthy can keep your brain healthy. Getting good rest can help your brain perform more optimally and boost your happiness. Not getting enough sleep affects your mind and can impact your stress levels. Low sleep can affect your physical and mental functioning, so make sure you’re getting restful sleep each night. If you have problems sleeping, try waking up and going to bed at the same time each day, even on the weekends. Create a relaxing sleep environment and do calming activities before bed such as reading, taking a bath, or sipping tea.Keep your bedroom relaxing. If excessive light disturbs you, buy darker curtains. Make your bedroom a place that looks and feels relaxing to you by decorating it in soft, not bright, tones.
 Eating wholesome, nourishing meals can help you stay energized and feeling good throughout the day instead of in a “brain fog.”Make sure to include whole grains, proteins, and fats in your diet. If you don’t know how to balance your meals or get proper nutrients, work with a nutritionist or use a food diary to keep track of your nutrients. You can download some free phone applications to help you track your calories, sugars, and major food groups each day.


Cut down on sugar, alcohol, caffeine, tobacco, and other substances as a way to keep your head clear and your emotions in balance.
 Your mind determines whether you remember an event as positive or negative. Creating more positive enforcement of memories can help you form positive emotions and memories.When you focus on negative thoughts during an experience, you’re more likely to look back on the experience as negative. If you notice yourself creating a negative experience, think about what is going right.


Reframe events you experience and remember them more positively.This can help you retrain your brain to approach things more positively and remember them in a positive way. Most experiences can be perceived as either positive or negative, depending on your focus and mindset.
For example, if you feel like you’ve had a bad day, think of the small things that went well or felt good throughout the day. Perhaps you can offset the difficulties of running late or forgetting your lunch in the morning with a more positive and fun afternoon by doing tasks you enjoy, buying a special treat, or talking to someone you care about.
 Instead of focusing on all of the things that could go wrong, find the things that are going right. Focus on possibilities and opportunities for optimism and not pessimism. If it feels like everything is going wrong, notice even the smallest thing that is going well. If you’re feeling frustrated, stop and take a moment to shift your attention to something more positive. For example, if you’re running late to a meeting, you might feel overwhelmed or frustrated. Stop and think, “I’m upset that I will be late, but I know I will make it on time. I’ve prepared for this meeting so I expect that it will go well.”
Having a tangible motivation can help create a bright side. For example, plan a vacation if you are feeling stressed or overworked. You can look forward to your vacation when you start feeling overwhelmed and remind yourself that enjoyment is in your future.
 Gratitude is a way to give thanks for what you have. Instead of focusing on what you lack, focus on what you have or what you appreciate. People who consistently practice gratitude tend to have higher levels of optimism and happiness, act with generosity and compassion, and experience more positive emotions.Get in the habit of finding things every day that you are grateful for.


You can write in a gratitude journal or notice things throughout your day that you can be thankful for.
Try waking up and going to bed each day by naming three things that you are grateful for.
 Feeling optimistic is easy when life is going well and all of your needs are met. It gets much harder when you’re feeling low, things go wrong, and you’re struggling. Optimism isn’t about feeling happy all the time or thinking that everything will turn out fine. It has more to do with continuing positive momentum even when life gets difficult.If you engage in optimism practices, keep them up even when you’re feeling low or in a bad mood.
 When you notice yourself thinking negatively, ask yourself whether the thought is helpful or not. If it’s not a helpful thought, notice it and stop it, even if you cut yourself off in mid-thought. Notice your negative thoughts and stop them in their tracks.If you catch yourself thinking negatively about your abilities or approaching a day as a “bad day,” think about how you turn that negativity around for something more positive.
For example, if you dread a family function and think, “I can’t believe how much time I’m going to waste and I wish I was doing something else,” catch yourself in your negative thoughts and replace that thought with, “This may not be what I want to be doing, but I can be friendly and helpful to my family.”

, Unhappy people tend to compare themselves to others while happy people don’t engage in any comparisons with others, whether favorable or unfavorable.If you catch yourself saying, “I wish I was more like her” or, “If only I had his job,” it’s time to stop these comparisons. Whether the comparisons are positive or negative, they are not improving your life.


When you catch yourself in a comparison, focus on something more positive. For example, instead of thinking, “I wish I had a house more like theirs” think to yourself, “I know I can have a house like this if I continue to work hard and save money.”

, If you tend to think that things bring you happiness (“If only I could get that new game/dress/house/pair of shoes, etc…”), your happiness is threatened if your material circumstances change. Perhaps you’re a perfectionist or you’re always on the lookout for better options, even if you have something good in front of you. Your expectations may far exceed your ability to attain what you want and can make you feel incompetent or unsuccessful. These kinds of thought and behavior patterns may make you feel pessimistic about your abilities, not optimistic.For example, if you really want a new cell phone and think that you’ll finally be happy if you get it, think again. You will likely get used to having the phone and the novelty will wear off quickly, leaving you wanting something else.
If you find yourself engaging in negative thought patterns, bring some awareness to your thoughts by saying to yourself, “These thoughts do not help me engage in positive or optimistic patterns and do not add to my life.”

