 If your pet is underweight, increase her food calories to help her gain weight. One simple way to do so is to add an extra feeding. You want to be cautious in feeding only one very large meal a day, especially in large breed dogs.


Some pets are prone to bloat after eating a large meal, which can cause an emergency condition. Watch your pet for this condition and call an emergency vet right away if your dog seems in distress., Feeding the same food to your pet might not help your pet gain weight. You may find that you might need to switch to a better, more premium brand of food. It also might be beneficial to change to a different type of food ingredient in the food, such as from a chicken based food to a lamb based food. It might also be helpful to switch from strict dry food to a wet food or mixture of both to help increase her food intake as well.


When you are looking for new food, look for a higher fat and protein food. Typically, these will be 18% for fat and 28 to 30% for protein.
Your underweight pet may gain weight healthier and faster if you feed her a higher fat food. This is because fat has more calories per gram than protein or carbohydrates does., Another way to help your pet gain weight is to supplement your pet’s diet with tasty and easily handled food. This can include a scrambled egg cooked in butter, a teaspoon or two of peanut butter, or a teaspoon of cooking oil to her food. These foods can be added to the food once a day at first. If you have a larger dog, you can add these to the food two or three times a day.
 Dogs and cats need a well-balanced supply of vitamins and minerals with their food. Most good quality commercial dog and cat foods are balanced to meet all nutritional needs of your pet. Check the ingredient’s label on the pet food containers for multiple brands. Good foods will have meat as the top ingredients. Meat by-products, if listed, should be near the bottom of the ingredient list. Grains and vegetables are all generally used in dog foods and some cats foods.


If your dog or cat has a medical condition, it is best to seek the advice of your veterinarian to make sure your pet has the best food for its health.
If you feed your pet a homemade diet, carefully balance the ingredients to make a balanced diet. Consult a veterinary nutritionist to create a balanced menu for your pet. It is extremely hard to make a balanced homemade diet for a cat, so only do so with professional help.
 Although young dogs and cats can be overweight or underweight, any dietary changes should be discussed with your veterinarian. Large to giant breed puppies need carefully planned diets so their bones grow properly. Also, elderly pets need to be under a veterinarian’s care if any dietary or weight changes are needed.

