 The more educated you are on the subject, the easier it will be to stay calm when it happens. Your first period will probably be very light, and may not even look like blood. You may notice your period as bright red drops in your underwear, but it could also be any shade from maroon to brown.Also, don't worry that you will be losing a lot of blood. The average woman loses only about 1 oz. (30 ml) of blood during her period.


When your period comes, you may notice a feeling of wetness in your underwear. You may even feel liquid flowing out of your vagina, or you may not notice anything at all.If you are scared of blood or bleeding, try framing it this way: your period isn’t blood from a wound or injury. The blood from your period is actually a sign that you're healthy.
 One of the best ways to learn about what to expect is to talk to your mom, older sister, aunt, cousin, or friend who has already gotten their period. This way you can have an open, back and forth conversation, and ask any questions you may have. Furthermore, girls often begin their periods around the same age as their mother or sisters did. So if talking to your mom or sister is an option, find out when they started and what is was like.


You can simply say, "I'm nervous about getting my first period." (Or if you have already started, "I just started my first period.")
Then you can say, "What was it like when you started yours?"

, Your local drugstore or grocery store will probably have an entire aisle dedicated to feminine hygiene products. There are a lot of choices, and eventually you’ll figure which products you like best. To start out, look for pads that aren't too bulky or noticeable. You will probably want light or medium absorbency..


Pads are probably the easiest thing to start out with. You will have enough to think about without worrying about how to properly insert a tampon.
However, if you would prefer to use a tampon or a menstrual cup during your first period, that is OK too. It is most important for you to feel comfortable.
If you feel embarrassed about buying pads or tampons, just remember that the cashier really doesn't care what you are buying and it's nothing new or shocking to them.
 It is a good idea to store some pads in your backpack, purse, gym bag, and/or locker at school (just one or two in each place is fine). If you have the supplies with you at school, you do not need to worry about your first period catching you by surprise.You may want to get a makeup bag or pencil case to store your period supplies.
You may also want to hide a pair of underwear in your locker just in case.
You may also want to keep a little bottle of ibuprofen or other over-the-counter pain medication in your locker to help with cramps (just check your school's policy on this first).
You may also want to toss in a bar of chocolate, as it has been proven to help with PMS and give your mood a boost.
 There is no surefire way to know that your period is approaching, but there are some signs that might give you a clue. If you experience a stomach or backache, cramps in your abdomen, or sore breasts it may mean that your first period is approaching.Women can get their first periods as early as eight years old and as old as 16. The average age is 12.You may notice a white discharge in your underpants up to six months before getting your first period.Your period usually comes after you have reached 100 pounds.

