 While nothing can support your breasts like a bra, tape is ideal for instances where you can’t wear one (for example, if you’re wearing a dress with a plunging neckline or an open back).








Make sure your skin is free from lotions and oils before applying.
To apply, start with a piece of tape between 12 – 16” long. Place the tape over your nipple, then pull it up to attach it to your side, near your underarm.Trim any excess tape and smooth the tape flat against your chest.
Duct tape and gaffer’s tape yield the best results.
Avoid using this trick if you have sensitive skin.
 Breast lift tape works similarly to using duct tape, but is only applied to the portion of the breast, just above the nipples. To apply breast lift tape, place the adhesive directly over the nipple. Remove the paper from the upper half of the adhesive and attach the sticky upper portion to the upper portion of your chest.








Smooth the tape gently to remove any air-pockets.
Breast lift tape does not provide a great deal of support and tends to work better for women with smaller cup sizes.
Breast lift tape can be purchased online or in stores like Target.
 There are certain styles and cuts of clothing that are designed to make a woman's chest appear larger. Try wearing a dress or top in a bandeau cut - this will offer support and also push your breasts up so they look bigger and perkier.








Try wearing a bodysuit. Look for one with built-in foam cups to provide the support you would normally get from your bra.If you can’t find a bodysuit with cups, buy cups at a fabric store and take them to a seamstress to have them sewn in.
Try engineered shapewear for results that are designed to mimic the effects of plastic surgery., Corsets aren’t just for period pieces anymore – modern women use corsets to narrow the middle portion of their bodies and make their breasts appear larger and more pronounced.Look for a corset that has boning; this will serve as a makeshift bra.
Do not immediately tighten your corset after putting it on. Give your body a few minutes to adjust before lacing yourself in.