 Line the edges of any other surfaces (such as walls, cabinets, and backsplashes) with painter’s tape wherever they meet the countertop. Safeguard them against damage when you sand the countertop. Keep them covered so you don’t have to clean any cement off in case you graze them by accident during application.Additionally, consider removing any sinks in order to protect them and to resurface where the sink’s lip covers the countertop.
 Use coarse sandpaper for sanding. Don’t worry about making your countertop smooth, since the cement actually does a better job of sticking to irregular surfaces. Once you’re done, wet a washcloth and wipe the countertop down until it is clean, using additional washcloths as needed. Allow the countertop to air-dry once you are finished., First, read the cement’s directions. Pour the recommended ratio of cement and water into a disposable container. Stir them with a paint stirrer until the mixture is even.Only mix a small amount at a time. Mixing the total amount of cement that you need to complete the project all at once will result in the cement drying before you reach the end of your project. Instead, make small batches of a couple cups’ worth at a time as you go.
 Lather the cement in a thin layer over your countertop. For wide, open areas, use a large drywall trowel to cover the most amount of surface area with less effort. For corners, edges, and any other tight spaces, use putty knives. Once you’re done, give the cement a minimum of 24 hours to dry, and more if needed.Wide putty knives work best for right angles in corners and where the countertop meets the wall. Wipe the needed amount of cement off onto the painter’s tape covering your wall. From there, draw the cement toward you with your putty knife. “Pulling” the cement toward you will create a smoother finish than “pushing” it toward the wall will.
Use smaller putty knives to cover any rounded edges. This may be the most labor-intensive part of the application. Make sure the existing countertop is covered and smooth the cement out as much as possible. If necessary, use more cement than desired and sand off the excess later, once it dries.
 Use medium sandpaper to get rid of any noticeably uneven cement. Vacuum the surface area to remove all dust. Then apply another coat of cement. Wait another 24 hours for the cement to dry, and repeat the process for a third coat.When sanding the first and second coats, don’t worry about making the surface perfectly smooth. Simply concentrate on getting rid of any cement that is obviously higher than the surrounding area.
When applying new coats of cement, keep an eye out for any areas where the previous coat appears to be thinner than the surrounding area. Apply extra cement here.
 Once your final coat has dried, sand your countertop’s new surface down to your desired level of smoothness. This will take some time, so if you are sanding by hand instead of a machine, protect your fingers with a pair of thin work gloves. Start with coarse sandpaper to get the bulk of the word done quicker. Then switch to fine sandpaper for a smoother finish.Be careful if you use a power sander. Depending on how powerful it is, it may do too good of a job and end up stripping more cement than desired off of your countertop.
 Peel your painter’s tape off of all surrounding surfaces. If needed, use your putty knife to chip off any cement that may have sealed it the edge to the countertop. Then vacuum the area to remove all of the dust created by sanding., Pour some water-based sealer into your paint tray. Use a paint roller to apply the sealer over large surface areas. Use a brush to reach tighter areas like corners and edges.Give it a couple of hours to dry.Then apply two more coats, and you’re done!


The liquid sealer is very thin and can easily drip or splash over other surfaces. If you’re worried about making a mess, add a new layer of painter’s tape over connecting surfaces and cover the floor with a tarp, sheet, or newspapers.
When purchasing sealer for kitchen countertops, double-check if the sealer is food-safe. If local stores don’t carry any, consider searching for one that is safe for food online. If not, be sure to keep food from coming into direct contact with the countertop.

