 Tap the App Store icon on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “HP All-in-One Printer Remote” on the search field.
 Once you’ve located the correct app, download it, and tap the “Install” button beside the app.


Downloading is free.
 Locate the app on your iPad. Its icon has an HP logo on it with a printer and a tablet. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the gear icon for Settings on the left panel toolbar. Tap on the HP ePrint menu.
 Enter your email address, and tap the “Send” button. HP ePrint will validate your email address by sending you a PIN code.
 Go to your email account, and look for the email from HP ePrint.
 The email from HP ePrint will contain an activation link and a PIN code. Click on the link to activate your account. Tap on the “Send” button to complete your registration.


If you can’t click on the link, copy the PIN code and enter this on the app where you left off.
 Make sure the printer is powered on and connected to a Wi-Fi network. Also make sure that the printer has been registered with HP ePrint.


Refer to your printer’s user manual and HP ePrint for more details.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the printer icon for My Printer on the left panel toolbar. Tap the right arrowhead beside the printer icon near the top of the screen, and then tap HP ePrint. It will search for HP ePrint-capable printers within the network.
 Tap the printer you’d like to add. The app will link with the printer and retrieve its information.


If the app cannot find the printer, you can search for it using its HP ePrint email address. The HP ePrint email address of your printer is assigned when you registered the printer with HP ePrint from Step 1.
 Once the link is successful, you will be able to see the printer model, its network connections, and the ink levels of the cartridges inside it. Tap the printer icon for “My Printer” on the left panel toolbar to view this information.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the files icon for Files on the left panel toolbar. A Files panel will appear from the left listing the possible sources of your files.
 From the Files panel, tap “Documents,” and then “Images.” The list of available local images will be listed. Tap the one you’d like to print and its preview will be shown on the screen.
 From the Files panel, tap “Documents,” and then “Documents.” The list of available local documents will then be listed. Tap the one you’d like to print and its preview will be shown on the screen.
 From the Files panel, under the Cloud Files section, tap the cloud storage service, e.g., Dropbox. Navigate through your cloud folders by tapping on them. Tap the file you’d like to print and its preview will be shown on the screen.
 You can also use another cloud service not yet listed by tapping on “Add Account” under the Cloud Files section, and linking that cloud service account with the app. Follow the instructions on the screen to do so.


You will need the username, password and server URL of the other cloud services in order to add them.
 Review the selected file on the screen to make sure this is the correct one to print. You don’t want to waste paper and ink by printing the wrong files.


If the file has several pages, scroll through it by swiping up or down.
 Tap the printer icon on the upper right side of the screen. You will be brought to the Print Preview screen where you can view the files again. Swipe left or right to browse through the pages.
 Tap the gear icon on the upper-right side of the preview, and select “Paper Size.” Choose among the defined paper sizes the one you have in your printer.


It can be Letter, Legal, or A4.
 Tap the gear icon on the upper right side of the preview, and select “Quality.” Choose between Normal and Draft.


The quality of the print will be based on what you select.
 Tap the gear icon on the upper-right side of the preview, and select “Color Mode.” Choose among Color, Black Only or Grayscale.


The color of the prints will be based on what you select.
 If you want the prints to come out a certain way, tap the gear icon on the upper-right side of the preview, and select “2-sided.”


Choose among Off, Short-edge Binding, or Long-edge Binding.
 Tap the gear icon on the upper right side of the preview, and select “Copy.” Tap the plus or minus buttons to increase or decrease, respectively, the number of copies to be printed.
 Once you’ve set all the parameters and are ready to start the actual printing, tap the “Print” button on the bottom of the screen.


Make sure you have enough paper in your printer. The printer will then receive the data and start printing.

