 Thoroughly explain what it is you hope to get and why you hope to get it. Depending on the nature of the subject, you can ask your parents to hear your entire argument before responding. If they agree, then you can lay out your goal, present your evidence, anticipate their counter points or concerns, and then conclude.Hopefully, your parents will hear you out until you are finished. If not, you'll need to be able to present your points in the form of a conversation. Make your point. Hear their counterpoint and then rebut. Don't lose your cool. Don't resort to condescension or screaming.
 Don’t just take from your parents. Give back. Since you are asking a favor of them, it would be nice, if you offered something in return. Your parents want to see you be happy, but they also have to get other things done.


The strongest strategy for bargaining with your parents is offering to do chores. If you want to borrow the car over the weekend, offer to do chores at home or around town. Make your request worth more to them than just making you happy. If they feel like they are making you happy and getting something else out of it, they’ll be more likely to acquiesce to your request., “Don’t answer yet.” “Just think about it. No rush. Get back to me when it is convenient.” No one likes being put on the spot, especially if it concerns a more serious request or issue. Your parent’s gut reaction will be to say “No”. To avoid getting a rejection immediately, give your parent some time to decide and to consult with your other parent. This will also show your parents that you are mature and not impetuous.This tactic only works with requests that aren't time specific. If you need to borrow the car this weekend. You don't want to put off getting your parent's answer because then you won't have time to secure other transportation. If, for example, you want to get a new pet, this strategy might work better. Because getting a new pet is such a commitment, it is best to not rush your parents into it.
 If you want to retort or convince your parents of your side, you'll need to discount their argument. So even if they say "no" this doesn't mean that they'll always say "no". Ask for an explanation. Hopefully, your parent won’t just play the parent card — “because I said so”. Hopefully, they’ll explain their side of the debate. If they do, try to understand what is driving their reasoning. Then make counter-arguments or proposals that undercut those arguments and support your own.For example, if your parents say no to getting a new dog based on the premise that you are not responsible enough, find ways to show them otherwise. Start behaving more responsibly and when they notice, bring up getting a new dog again. "Look I am responsible. Now that you recognize my ability to be responsible, can we get a dog?" Remember that one of the best ways to counter a parent's argument is through your actions.
 There may be other ways of convincing your parents. Take a moment to regroup and to re-evaluate alternate strategies. You might conclude to let it go. Hopefully, you've succeeded, but if you haven't, your desire to convince your parent might wane. It might not be worth it to you any more to convince your parent. Some parents won’t think about changing their opinions once their mind is set. If this is the case, you may have to consider alternative avenues to getting what you want.For example, if your parents refuse to help you buy a car, you will need to get a job and save your money to buy one yourself.

