 Set out only the items that you're sure you'll need, then build out from there. Bring as many changes of clothing as you will need, and consider bringing one extra outfit if you can fit it. Determine the number of outfits you will need for each day, not the number of outfits you want to have. If you are going to the beach and a bar one day, you will need an outfit for the beach, an outfit for the bar, and a set of pajamas.


Add one additional outfit to your list in case of an emergency. For example, say your clothes get drenched from rain but the day isn't over yet. If you pack an additional outfit, you will have a backup without needing to take away from your other outfits.
 Plan your clothing around the climate of your vacation spot. Check websites or the television to see what the weather will be like in that area before you go. If you are entering a warm or tropical clime, you can pack lighter, and if you are going to be hiking in the Arctic Tundra you're going to need to layer things which means lots more clothes. You don't want to pack the completely wrong clothes and be miserable during what is supposed to be a fun weekend.


If it is going to be cold, pack articles of clothing such as sweatshirts, pants, hats, etc. Make sure you pack enough. It is better to be over-prepared than under-prepared.
If it is supposed to be warm, pack shorts and t-shirts, but bring a few cold-weather items just in case. Meteorologists will not be able to give you a perfect weather forecast, so it is best to come prepared. Who knows? It just might happen to drizzle while you are on your little adventure for the weekend.
 The key to packing for a short vacation is to pack versatile items that you can mix and match depending on where the weekend takes you. If you already have a set itinerary, great – but remember that weather can be unpredictable, and that you may change your mind about what you want to do.


Try to bring clothing that you can wear for multiple days in a row. For instance, consider bringing just one pair of jeans that you can pair with several different shirts. Recognize which articles can be worn two days in a row. Jeans and pajamas usually can, but underwear should not.
Consider your color palette while picking your outfits. If you have the same colors, then you won't have to bring as many things to match.
 Consider the activities that you'll be doing, and plan accordingly. Try to limit yourself to two pairs of shoes. Bring one pair of shoes for walking, and one pair for another activity: flip-flops for the beach, heels or dress shoes for a night on the town, slippers for relaxing. Place shoes that you are not wearing on traveling days in plastic grocery bags or some other small bag. The shoes can either be added to your bag if there is room or be transported separately.


If you are going to be doing things outside (hiking, biking, running), you should come prepared with sneakers so that you can enjoy your weekend without having uncomfortable feet.
If you are going somewhere fancy, you probably won't want to wear sneakers while everyone else is wearing their dress shoes.
 Visualize how certain items will go together, and consider how many options you are giving yourself. Organize the items by outfit, color, or clothing type.
 Always pack extra underwear in case you are surprised by your menstrual cycle, end up partaking in a sweaty activity, etc.
 This will help you save space, and it may keep things wrinkle-free. Fold pants in half and then roll them from the top to the bottom. Fold shirts into thirds and then roll them from the top to the bottom. In this way, you can fit your whole list into a carry-on-sized suitcase, and you won't have to pay those pesky extra fees for checked baggage.


Put wrinkle-prone items on top. If wrinkle-prone clothing gets stuck beneath the weight of your other items, it will be more likely to come out of your bag creased.

