 For a business that repairs motorcycles, sells used ones, or stocks new ones without a franchise, you don’t need as vast an amount of space as a brand dealership. Find a place that suits your needs. This will often be a small but visible storefront with garage space to work on motorcycles.


Vehicles left outside suffer environmental damage over time, so find a place where you can limit exposure as much as possible.
 $10,000 to $50,000 is often enough to get the business up and running, but you’ll need to factor in additional expenses such as advertising, shipping, employees, and specialized tools. They add up, so you’ll have to figure out how to keep your business profitable in the long run.Keep enough savings to last you for a year. It can take some time for the business to become profitable.
 Small shops need less funding than dealerships to start, so it may be possible to get much of the financing from friends and family. However, many potential small business owners will need to secure loans from the bank or venture capitalists. Search out small business loans, equity financing, or convince someone that your idea is solid and you have the experience with motorcycles and business to make your business a success.


Debt financing can be a good idea if you have good credit. You pay a monthly fee without sharing ownership of your business with the bank.
By conversing with people online or offline, there is a chance you’ll encounter someone who believes in your business plan or will go into business with you, sharing your expenses.
 Speak to your local government in order to find out what kind of license you need to sell motorcycles. This can be a lengthy process and involves proper documentation and background checks to see if your business practice is ethical. You will have to pay fees for the application and any dealer license plates then wait months for the application to be approved.


In California, for instance, you need to complete a training program and pass a test in addition to business documentation and local licensing., Now that your business is set up, you need to stock it with product. Franchise dealerships have the benefit of displaying the official brand, but as an unaffiliated dealer it’s up to you how to fill your store. Use your motorcycle and customer knowledge to combine a range of products with what the customers want.


You can buy used bikes or fix up old bikes from people around the community.
To carry new bikes, buy them individually or contact brand headquarters by finding their phone number or e-mail. Look through their catalogue, then ask them how you can place an order.
Consider ordering motorcycle parts and accessories as well. Be sure to mark the price up enough to make you profit.

