 Some conditions which can lead to psychosis, such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, may be genetically linked. If someone in your family has schizophrenia, bipolar, or a personality disorder, you may be at higher risk for these conditions, and may be more likely to experience psychosis. Your doctor can help you obtain a complete genetic profile and conduct a medical history of your family. By better understanding your genetic background, you will be more informed about your likelihood for developing psychosis and can better prepare yourself against the possibility.


Be aware that, even with this information, your doctor can offer you a risk profile, but not a diagnosis or a guarantee that you will or will not get one of these conditions. Identifying genetic markers for conditions like schizophrenia is in early stages, and there is no test used to diagnose schizophrenia yet.Even when risk factors are very high, some people still do not develop schizophrenia, though the reason for this is unknown.;
, Some medical conditions and mood disorders can affect your how your brain functions. Medical conditions which can manifest psychotic symptoms include: Alzheimer’s
Parkinson’s
Brain tumors
HIV
Malaria
Hypoglycemia
Acute intermittent porphyria
Schizophrenia
Bipolar disorder
Endocrine diseases
Liver or kidney failure
Syphilis
Seek medical advice to prevent your condition from developing into a psychotic break.
 People who have been involved in any kind of drug abuse have a very strong chance of suffering from psychosis. Drugs can alter your perception of reality. Sometimes they alter your perception beyond repair by altering the neuro cycles in your brain. Even drugs like marijuana, which is often considered to be more of a "soft" drug, can an increase risk of developing psychosis by two fold if used during brain development stages (your teens).This is not limited to "street" drugs and alcohol — prescription medication can also be a cause of psychosis if abused, or if your use of the drug ends suddenly. One of the most effective ways to prevent drug-induced psychosis is by slowly reducing your use of drugs.
Tell yourself that you want to quit and seek help, either through therapy, a 12-step program, or by reaching out to friends and family.
Stay away from friends or peers that encourage you to use the drug.Get away from all the things that trigger your habit of dependency.
Motivate yourself by keeping a picture of your loved ones with you to remind yourself that you are affecting their lives as well.
Get involved in all the activities that you used to do before you began taking your drug.
Keep yourself busy at all times so that you do not feel the need to take your drug.
 When you experience a trauma, both your mind and your body have to deal with the aftermath. Sometimes, people who experience traumatic situations experience hyper-realistic flashbacks or become paranoid. This type of psychosis is induced by trauma.Talk to a therapist about your experience. It can be dangerous to try and treat your trauma on your own or to ignore it. A therapist can help you learn healthy ways to deal with and work through the trauma.
Face the trauma head-on. Accept what happened and acknowledge that while you cannot change what happened, you can change your reaction to it.Stay away from drugs and alcohol, as abuse of these substances could lead to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
 Talking to an empathetic family member or friend about your concerns will help you feel cared for and improve overall mental health.


Create supportive relationships with people who care for you and take your problems seriously.If you have financial needs, let a family member know.
 A very good way to prevent psychosis is to talk to a therapist about the challenges you are facing. Going to therapy will give you another perspective and help you understand the underlying reasons for your problems, both of which are steps towards a solution.


You can get a list of certified therapists from your general practitioner. He or she can also recommend the best therapy for your specific situation.
Your therapist might also prescribe you with medication. Follow the medication's directions carefully.

