 Also called metta, loving-kindness meditation strives to promote feelings of warmth and well-being to yourself and all those around you. Practicing metta generates positive emotions, and, in turn, can improve your satisfaction in life and even cause a reduction in depressive symptoms.To practice loving-kindness meditation, go to a quiet room and sit comfortably in a chair or on a floor cushion.Take several slow and deep breaths. Release any worries or repetitive thoughts. Just focus on your breathing, envisioning your breath moving through your chest.
Firstly, focus on generating positive feelings and energy about yourself. You might mentally repeat phrases, such as "May I be well", "May I find happiness", and "May I be peaceful". Wish yourself love and happiness. Try to connect to these positive intentions. Imagine yourself in these states.
After directing loving-kindness towards yourself, call to mind a friend or relative who cares for you. Direct your love and positive energy to this person with phrases like "May you be safe" and "May you be calm and at ease." Again, try to connect with the intention behind these statements.
Continue until you move through loved ones, associates, community members, and all living things.
 Seeing the bad in everything can taint your worldview, and the worldview of those closest to you. To reshape your reality into one that is hopeful about the future, spread positive emotions like optimism, faith, and hope. Be encouraging. Share the good things that happen to you, rather than always zeroing in on the bad.


Healthy optimism encompasses acknowledging that life consists of both positive and negative, good and bad. Yet, you choose to direct your attention towards that which is positive.
Research shows that, when compared to pessimists, people who are optimistic tend to enjoy greater success in school, work, and athletics, have greater marriage satisfaction, experience less anxiety, live longer, and suffer from less depression., Having a thankful spirit is immensely good for in a number of ways. Gratitude leads to greater resistance against stress, increased mindfulness, reduces negative emotions and an enhanced sense of self-worth. What's more, the positive emotions created through a grateful spirit rub off on others, so everyone is better for it.Start a gratitude journal.Pick a daily time to sit down and write out the things you are grateful for. Choose between 5 and 10 things to write each day. If you are having a particularly bad day, simply strive to focus on basics like fresh water, food, or shelter. Doing this daily will foster a thankful spirit.
Replace complaints with gratefulness. When you notice yourself complaining about what you don't have or what's going wrong in the world, immediately shift these negative statements into positive ones. Yes, there is war, but you might also express thankfulness for camaraderie or patriotism. Try to find something worthwhile or beneficial about every situation.

