 The number of people in your family, the nature of your activities, and whether you take your pets on the go all factor into the size of the vehicle you need. Some SUVs offer the ultimate in extra passenger space—third-row seating—while others offer little more space than a 4-door sedan would.


If your lifestyle calls for transporting a lot of equipment, or 4 or more people at a time, you will probably need a third row of seating.Consider a larger SUV like a Chevrolet Tahoe, or a GMC Yukon.
Some smaller SUVs have third row seating as well, so if you need more seats but don’t want to drive a really big SUV, try a Toyota Highlander or a Honda Pilot.;
, If you will be regularly taking your vehicle off road, consider a Jeep Wrangler.If you want something more highway friendly, try a crossover or a hybrid SUV. For more on those, see below.
 Off-road driving and towing large things like boats will require the power of 4WD. 4WD vehicles offer better traction, and more stability control, which are both great to have when taking the vehicle off-road.Consider a 4WD model if you plan to use your vehicle off road, or even if you live in a place where it snows most months of the year., Do you have kids who might do a number on the interior of your SUV? Or, would you prefer a luxury vehicle? You may need to decide whether you need functionality over luxury.


In terms of luxury SUVs, a Range Rover would be a good option on the smaller end, while an Escalade might be a good choice if you need that extra space.
For a more durable and easier-to-clean interior, consider a Nissan Xterra., With gas prices always fluctuating and often on the rise, fuel efficiency is as important today as it has ever been when considering purchasing a new vehicle.


Kelley Blue Book recently named the 2015 Lexus NX 300h the most fuel efficient SUV, with an estimated 35MPG city and 31MPG highway.Other SUVs that made the top ten list for most fuel efficient include the 2015 Subaru XV Crosstrek (29MPG city, 33MPG highway), the 2014 Mini Cooper Countryman (28MPG city, 35MPG highway), and the 2015 Lexus RX 450h (32MPG city, 28MPG highway).
 When it comes to fuel efficiency, hybrid models will usually get you the most bang for your buck, as they combine both electric and gas power.


The Toyota Highlander offers a Hybrid model that also has a third row seat., You won’t want to buy an SUV that will constantly require repairs or maintenance.


A survey of 34,000 drivers on the need for repairs in the first three years of ownership rated the GMC Yukon as needing very little work over that time.One the more luxurious end, JD Power’s Vehicle Dependability Study also rated the Buick Enclave as a highly dependable vehicle in the first three years of ownership., A crossover is essentially defined by the type of platform it is built upon. While a traditional SUV is built using a truck platform, a crossover uses a car platform. So, while this isn’t the only different between SUVs and crossovers, it is one defining characteristic to be aware of when deciding between the two.There are truck/SUV crossovers such as the Honda Ridgeline that offer the interior and space of an SUV as well as a truck bed.The other crossover option is the van/SUV. These include models such as the Kia Sportage, and the Ford Escape. These are especially popular family vehicles, as they often have high safety ratings, and are generous on interior space while not feeling as large or as intimidating as a full-size SUV.Subcompact SUVs, like the 2016 Honda HR-V, are becoming more and more popular on the roads. Their length is more similar to small cars, but they boast an SUV-style body that allows for maximum interior space and versatility, without the hefty fuel price or sizes of full-size SUVs. These subcompact SUVs average about 4MPG more in both city and highway tests than compact SUVs, so they are fuel efficient as well as spacious., As with any car purchase, a high safety rating is definitely a good selling point. Don’t hesitate to ask a salesperson for detailed information on safety features and ratings of a car you are interested in. Alternatively, you can do the research yourself online.


In Kelley Blue Book’s list of the 35 best safety rated SUVs of 2016, the Acura MDX, Acura RDX, BMW X3, and the BMW X5 took the top spots.If you have children, you might also want to look into the child seat attachment availability in the backseat. The 2016 Volvo XC90 was rated the best car for families in 2016 by U.S. News due to its safety ratings, handsfree liftgate, stylish appearance (for those Dads who definitely don’t want to be caught in a Mom-mobile!), and its large cargo capacity., Both luxury and non-luxury vehicles are coming standard with more and more features and upgrades. Know the options available to you with the SUV model you choose.


Many new cars have tech features like in-dash touchscreens, remote start, and even apps that allow you to lock your car from anywhere. Some of these features even address safety issues—back-up cameras allow for safer reversing, blind spot monitoring notifies you (usually with a light in your side mirror) if a car is driving in your blind spot, and some newer model cars even hit the brakes for you to prevent you from hitting an oncoming object.