 Breathe in through the nose, concentrating on filling your lungs with air the way you would fill a glass with water. Expand your chest and concentrate on slowly filling every available space.When you inhale, the air in your lungs pushes the diaphragm down, which naturally causes your abdomen to protrude. However, too often people learn as adults to suck in their abdomen, which means you're not taking in as much air as you should.
When you inhale, physically push your abdomen out to make room for the air. After some practice, you may find that your body does this naturally without you having to think about it.
Breathe slowly, building air in your lungs little by little.;
, Often exhalation is more difficult to master, because as soon as you near the end of the exhalation you become too focused on quickly inhaling again, rather than completely emptying your lungs of air.When you exhale, you should exhale completely. Train yourself to pause a moment before you consciously take your next deep breath. To do this, you'll have to overcome your natural desire to inhale as soon as you've finished exhaling.
To exhale properly, reverse the inhalation process. Think of releasing first the air in your chest, then lower into your abdomen – just as you would pour out a glass of water.
As you exhale, pull your abdomen in as if to squeeze the air out. You shouldn't have to train your body on this as much as you did for inhalation. This is your body's natural inclination after you've pushed your abdomen out.
 Your diaphragm is part of your core muscle group and also plays a central role in your breathing. When you focus on activating your diaphragm to breathe deeply, you also strengthen your core muscles.When your diaphragm is engaged by the movement of your abdomen out as you inhale and in as you exhale, you'll notice results in your performance. Over time, you'll find you breathe better and function better physically.
If you're engaging your core, your chest and stomach should rise to compress your abdominal space and allow your lungs to fully expand. When you exhale, the chest and stomach will fall.
You can practice engaging and strengthening your diaphragm by lying on your back on the floor with your knees bent. Place your hands on your stomach and allow it to rise as you inhale and fall naturally as you exhale.
When you've mastered correct breathing while laying down, stand up and try the same exercise. It also can help to pause whatever you're doing throughout the day to concentrate on your breath and retrain your body to breathe correctly.
 Pranayama is the practice of breath control. Adding pranayama exercises and breathing techniques to your regular yoga practice will strengthen the top and inner muscles of your core.One common pranayama practice is known as "ocean breath" because it may sound like the roar of a distant ocean. To practice ocean breath, get into a comfortable position and focus on your breath. As you inhale, breathe in slowly through your nose. On exhale, open your mouth and let the air flow slowly out in a whispered "ha" sound. Once you've mastered this, you can exhale through your nose, but with your mouth in the same position as it was when you were exhaling out of your mouth.
You also might try alternate-nostril breathing, which yogis believe can balance your life forces. From a comfortable seated position, make a fist over your nose with your right hand and extend your thumb and ring finger. Close your right nostril with your thumb and inhale with your left nostril. Then close your left nostril with your ring finger, open your right nostril, and exhale. Repeat the cycle three to five times, keeping in mind it may take some practice to get it down.
Another pranayama practice that may benefit your effort to tone your stomach is kumbhaka pranayama, or breath retention. Holding your breath for 10 seconds after a full inhale can increase your lung capacity as well as making your muscles more oxygenated. If you can't hold your breath for 10 seconds in the beginning, try going for three seconds. As you get better and more relaxed, you can gradually start holding it for longer.
 In many ways, mastering proper breath is more important than being able to hold complicated or difficult poses. Once you've mastered your breathing, you will be able to hold poses longer and go further than you ever thought you could.Generally, you should exhale when bending forward to relax your body and increase the depth of your fold. When lifting or opening your chest, you want to inhale to energize your body and engage the same muscles.
Exhaling on a twist allows you to expel more air and rotate further with more space available as your lungs deflate.
As you practice, pay attention to your breath and make sure you're not holding your breath, particularly when moving into a challenging position. Go into a pose only as far as you can go while maintaining your deep breath.
 The tree pose is a good place to start, because it's not very complex and allows you to focus fully on your breath. All the while, your abs will be working overtime to help you maintain your balance on one leg.Start from a standing position, and shift your weight to your left leg. Grab your right ankle and press the bottom of your foot to your left thigh. Press your foot into your thigh, keeping hold of your ankle until you've found your balance.
When you find your balance, raise up and press your palms together in front of your heart. Finding a focal point in front of you to direct your gaze will help you keep your balance and your concentration.
Center your abdominal muscles around your spine and breathe deeply. Hold the pose for ten breaths, then repeat the pose standing on your right leg.
 The vinyasa flow is made up of three poses that you transition through fluidly, following your breath. To tone your stomach, do a vinyasa made of downward-facing dog, cobra pose, plank, then back to downward-facing dog.Begin downward-facing dog on your hands and knees, with your wrists directly under your shoulders and your knees directly under your hips. Make sure the fold of your wrists is parallel with the top edge of your mat. Stretch your elbows and relax your upper back, spreading your fingers wide to distribute your weight evenly between your hands as you press them into the mat. Then tuck your toes and lift your knees off the floor as you exhale, raising your pelvis toward the ceiling. Gently straighten your legs until your body forms an upside-down "V." Press down into your mat as you reach upward with your pelvis. Hold this pose for five breaths.
Exhale and lower your body with your arms. Inhale and lift your chest off the floor in cobra pose. Hold for five breaths.
As you exhale, move into the plank pose, holding that for five breaths.
On exhale, move back into downward-facing dog. Repeat the entire flow five times.
 The boat pose strengthens and tones your abdominals as well as the muscles in your back, legs and arms. Adding this pose to your yoga practice will give you a whole-body workout.Start by lying down on your back on your yoga mat. Keep your feet together and your arms close to your sides, and breathe in.
As you exhale, slowly lift your chest off the floor. Make sure your abs are doing the lifting, not your neck or back. At the same time, lift your feet off the ground. Your arms should be extended out straight toward your toes.
You can bend your knees at a right angle to make this pose a little easier.
Work your way up to extended boat pose, a more challenging form. From boat pose, extend your legs out and lower them until they are at about a 45-degree angle. Your body should be in roughly a "V" shape, with your hands straight out by your side. Hold the position for 10 deep breaths.From extended boat pose, see if you can grab your toes and lock your fingers around them.
 This variation of downward-facing dog fully exercises your lower abdomen, working those difficult-to-reach lower abdominals repeatedly.In downward-facing dog position, exhale and bend your right leg, bringing your knee towards your nose.
Put your leg back to the floor in downward-facing dog, and inhale.
On exhale, repeat the action with your left leg. This is one cycle. Do this exercise for at least ten cycles.
 You may already be familiar with planks, which are a standard exercise for building abdominal muscles. The plank pose is also a staple of yoga practice for strengthening and stabilizing your core.To get into a yoga plank position, start by lying on the floor on your stomach. Press your palms into the mat on either side of your head, and roll over your toes so they also are pressing into the mat.
Push off with your hands to raise your body off the ground. You can go into downward-facing dog first, as it's easier to drop into plank position.
From downward-facing dog, inhale and slowly lower toward the mat until your arms are perpendicular to the floor and your chest is directly over your arms. You'll be on your toes, and your body should be a long, straight line from the top of your head to your heels.
Hold this pose for several breaths. When you're ready to release, you can simply lower your body to the floor as you exhale.
You also can add the plank vinyasa to increase strength in your back and deep abdominal muscles.Tuck alternating knees towards your elbows, then returning to plank pose. This is a pulsing exercise similar to the knee-to-nose downward-facing dog variation. Alternate knees between 8 and 20 times, keeping your breathing steady – exhale as you tuck, and inhale as you return to plank position.
 From plank position, you can move into side planks, which not only strengthen your abdominals but also target your obliques, the core muscles along your sides that can be difficult to build.For the side plank, start in the plank position. On inhale, stack your right foot on the edge of your left foot and raise your body so that you're on your side.
Your left hand should be directly below your left shoulder, so that the only support you have comes from the edge of your left foot and your left hand. You can drop to your elbow if this is too hard, and allow your entire forearm to support you.
Put your right hand on your hip, elbow out and perpendicular to your body. Hold this position for between 5 and 10 breaths. Then return to the starting position and do it again on your other side.
 The seated twist is a simple pose in which you have full support because you're sitting on the floor. The pose not only works your obliques but also stabilizes your lower back, particularly the lumbar region of your spine. You can do this pose not just as part of your practice, but at any time during the day.Sit cross-legged on the floor. You can sit in the lotus position, or simply cross your legs if lotus is too difficult. The important part of your sitting position is that you are comfortable and your spine is straight and supported.
Use the obliques on your left side to begin the twisting movement while also activating the obliques on your right side to lift your belly and keep your core firm.
Twist until you can rest your left hand on the outside of your right knee, placing your left hand behind you to help stabilize your back. Keep your back neutral and breathe into the pose, turning your hips slightly in the direction opposite of the twist.
Hold this twist for a few breaths, then exhale and release back to center before repeating the action in the other direction.
 Extended triangle pose is a standing pose that will help stretch and elongate your obliques as well as strengthening them. Your abdominals also are working to stabilize your body and help you keep your balance.Stand in mountain pose with your big toes touching and your heels slightly apart. Exhale and step or jump your feet about 4 feet apart. Reach out to both sides, arms straight and parallel to the floor, palms down.
Turn your left foot slightly in towards your body, your right foot out at a 90-degree angle. Your right heel and left heel should be aligned. Turn your right thigh outward so that your right knee cap lines up with the center of your right ankle.
On exhale, extend your torso to the right over your left leg. Make sure you are bending from your hip, not from your waist. Rotate so both sides of your torso are equally long, allowing your left hip to come forward slightly. Keep your back straight and neutral with your tail bone extending towards your back heel.
Your right hand should rest on the floor beside your right foot. If you can't reach that far without destroying the lines of the pose, just rest your hand on your ankle or shin. Then stretch your left arm straight up toward the ceiling, creating a line from your shoulders all the way to your fingertips.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then raise up out of the pose and return to mountain pose. Repeat extended triangle on the other side.
 The warrior lunge twist is a good all-over workout for your abdominal muscles. Your abs help stabilize you in the warrior position, while the twist engages your obliques.Bring your palms together in front of your heart and lunge forward with your left leg. Your knee should be at about a 90-degree angle. Keep your right leg straight behind you.
Brace your abs towards your spine and rotate your upper body to twist as you lean over your left leg.
Press your right elbow into the outside of your left knee and shift your gaze upwards to the sky. Hold the pose for 10 breaths, then repeat by lunging with your right leg and twisting in the other direction.
 While boat pose provides a whole-body workout that also targets your abdominals, the rocking boat engages your obliques to give you a flatter midsection. For this pose, you'll want to keep your knees bent, even if you are able to do extended boat pose with your legs out straight.For boat pose with bent knees, your shins should be parallel to the floor. Reach your arms straight out in front of you so that they also are parallel to the floor at shoulder height.
As you breathe, tip your knees to the side. Go as far as you can, feeling the stretch in your obliques. Keep your back neutral and your arms straight ahead.
When you've gone as far as you can on one side, bring your knees back to center and then tip them in the other direction. Keep your movement slow and smooth.
Repeat this exercise 10 times on each side.

