 Poisoning by undercooked beans usually results in abdominal pain and can also lead to diarrhea and in some uncommon cases, hospitalization. However, recovery is usually rapid and spontaneous. If you have consumed undercooked beans, these may some of the symptoms:


Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Gas
Abdominal pain.;
, Rushing the cooking process of the beans is not going to benefit you any, instead, it is better to cook the beans properly and to refrigerate them for tomorrow night's dinner, than to rush them and eat them underdone for tonight's meal.


Have standby grains such as couscous and burghul wheat for a quick soak should the beans not be ready and you still need a substantial side dish of plant origin protein.
 These can vary according to the bean and you should know both the type of bean you're cooking and the length of time it requires to be both soaked (if relevant) and cooked for. Phytohaemagglutinin is found in its highest concentration in red kidney beans, so they're the ones to be the most careful about. Here are some cooking times to be aware of for each 1 cup of dried beans:Adzuki: No soaking time needed, boil for 45-50 minutes or pressure cook for 15-20 minutes.

Black (turtle) beans: Soak overnight, boil for 45-60 minutes, pressure cook for 15-20 minutes.

Black-eyed pea: Soak overnight, boil for 1 hour, pressure cook for 10 minutes.

Chickpeas or garbanzo beans: Soak overnight, boil for 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 hours, pressure cook for 15-20 minutes.
Fava or broad beans: Soak overnight, cook for 45-60 minutes. Don't pressure cook. Also note that some people are unable to consume fava beans if they have a Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency as this causes the disease favism.

Kidney beans: Soak overnight, cook for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, pressure cook for 10 minutes. This is the bean to be very careful with as it has the highest levels of phytohaemagglutinin out of all beans.

Red lentils: No soaking needed, cook 20-30 minutes or pressure cook 5-7 minutes. Always wash well and sieve to remove pieces of debris.

Green or brown lentils: No soaking needed, cook 30-45 minutes or pressure cook for 6-8 minutes.

Lima beans: Soak overnight and cook for 60-90 minutes. Don't use a pressure cooker.

Mung beans: Soak overnight, cook 1 - 1 1/2 hours, pressure cook for 8-10 minutes.

Split pea: No soaking needed, cook for 35-40 minutes, don't pressure cook.

Pinto beans: Soak overnight, cook for 1 1/2 hours, pressure cook for 10 minutes.

Soybean: Soak overnight, cook for 3 hours, pressure cook for 15 minutes.
White (Great Northern, Marrow, Navy, Pea) beans: Soak overnight, cook for 45-60 minutes, pressure cook for 4-5 minutes.
 If you just don't have the time or patience for cooking your own beans, let someone else do the cooking for you and purchase pre-cooked canned beans.
 Pressure cookers can speed up bean cooking time if you're in a hurry. Follow the cooker's accompanying instructions carefully.

