 Do not buy too much as you have to make it into a 'candy'. Choose any type of fruit, whether citrus or berries, but make sure that they are good combinations and they match. If you put tomatoes in the candy, it would obviously spoil the taste so try something that is sweet with another sweet object. You might think of putting bananas but in this recipe, you aren't allowed to use any 'dry' fruit. You will need juicy fruits for this recipe.


Choose the fresh fruits. Not those old soft ones. Usually the fresh ones are more crunchy and juicy which would be absolutely fabulous in this recipe.
One of the combinations could be: Passion fruit, Orange, Strawberries and Apples. The combination is all juicy and they match as they are all sweet with sourness.;
, Make sure that the bowl is big enough to fill that amount of sugar so nothing falls out.


Using a bigger bowl for this recipe would be better because you have to 'mix' it, so the bigger the space; nothing would fall out.
If anything does fall out, clean the mess up as sugar is a 'destination' for ants so be careful.
Only use white sugar; if you use brown sugar, your candy would be brown in color.
The bowl should be made out of ceramic, if not, use any bowl that would be allowed to be placed into the oven.
 Make sure you use the appropriate type of teaspoon as the original one is holding at least 5 ml.


If you have teaspoons stuck to a chain, it should tell which one is the actual teaspoon. Do not get mixed up the the halves or the other ones.
Adding syrup would make the mixture more nourish so it doesn't get too dry even though if syrup is actually the liquid form of sugar.
Syrup is the liquid form of sugar but syrup is slightly more expensive than sugar.
 Make sure it is enough heat to make the sugar dissolve. Watch the oven or set a timer so a fire would not start.


This step is dangerous. Make sure you stay in the kitchen to do the next step.
 There still may be skin left-overs but you can take them out when you have place them into another bowl. After you are finished, place it in the fridge with a cling wrap covering it, not the freezer.


To take all the 'solid' parts out, just tip your bowl into another bowl but not too much so all of the mixture would go out and use a spoon to trap the solid parts from escaping from the 1st bowl. If you look in the 2nd bowl, it is the liquid. There still may be a few parts but it doesn't matter.
 Usually they should be 3 centimeter (1.2 in) wide and 3 centimeter (1.2 in) long but you don't have to be too precise but just make sure it is not too big.


This process may be very sticky. Only mold the sugar when it is starting to harden so it feels like gum. If you actually mold the syrup when it is still hot, you would notice that the pot would just fall apart.
 While waiting, you can use the comic for reading purposes.


This is optional.
 Not too much so it doesn't overflow. Leave the pots into a stable place in the freezer so nothing would make it fall over.


This time, you are using a freezer, not a fridge now.
 As simple as that, you have your 'Fruit Sugar Cup!' Enjoy!


It may be hard to eat it so let it out for a few minutes then gobble it up with laughter.

