 One of the scariest things about going to the gym when you’re overweight or not as fit as you’d like is having other people look at you. However, no one is really going to be looking at you when you are at the gym. Most people at the gym feel the same way you do - they are worried people are looking at them. When you go into the gym, feel confident that just as you are focusing only on your workout, others are doing the same thing.Being self-conscious in the gym is very common. Many people who work out feel like they are overweight, not doing the exercise correctly, or comparing themselves to people they think are more fit than they are. Understanding that you are not the only one who may be uncomfortable may help you start to feel more comfortable.
If someone does look at you like you don’t belong or says something rude, they are being disrespectful and rude. No matter if you are overweight or ripped, you have as much right as everyone else to go to the gym and strive for a healthier lifestyle.;
, Making major lifestyle changes like eating healthy and exercising regularly are learning process. No one is born knowing how to do the exercises they are doing. Try to remind yourself of this the next time you feel uncomfortable at the gym.


Everyone in the gm had to learn at one point. It is usually a bit intimidating to learn something new, but this uncomfortable feeling of everything being new is a part of the learning curve you are on.
Even the most advanced gym-goers are learning new things and learning about how to push their limits with something new.
 One of the worst traps you can get into at the gym is comparing yourself to everyone else. Going to the gym should be a completely self-absorbed activity, where you only worry about yourself. Most of the people at the gym are strangers, and what they think doesn’t matter anyway. Every time you go into the gym and complete a workout, you are one more step towards your goal.Of course you will inevitably look around at the people working out. Remember that everyone else started somewhere different from where they are.
Instead of looking at the fit people, look for the “normal” people. Gyms are full of all sorts of people, including overweight people, older people, and people who are unfit and never exercised in their life. Remember, you are not alone.
 There is not one way for you to exercise at the gym and get fit. If you feel uncomfortable in the exercise machines because you don’t fit in them, skip the exercise machines. Free weights offer better exercise than machines according to most fitness experts. Choose only exercises that make you feel good.Just remember not to slack off or not push yourself. Find movements you enjoy and make you want to push yourself.
 Some people treat the gym like a fashion show. However, you need to wear clothes that make you feel comfortable and confident. You can buy yourself a new pair of shorts, new sneakers, or a new shirt to make you feel better, or you can wear clothes that always make you feel good about yourself.You may not feel comfortable wearing tank tops or spandex, and you don’t have to. Instead, wear a t-shirt and some basketball shorts or a loose-fitting tank and tights.
Shirts with motivational or workout-related slogans are becoming more popular. Buy yourself a motivational shirt so that every time you look in the mirror you will feel inspired to work harder.
 It’s okay that you are not the fittest person at the gym. You are at the gym working on a healthier lifestyle. When you try new things, start off slow. You don’t have to lift as much or go as fast as anyone else. You want to work on your form and increase your strength and endurance slowly. It isn’t a race or a competition.Going too fast or trying to lift too much at first can lead to injury.
Remember, no one started off lifting tons of weight or running fast. Everyone worked up to the level they are.

