 Fit one piping bag with a petal decorating tip, like tip #101, and the other piping bag with a round decorating tip, like tip #7.This flower is created with one color, so fill both bags with the same color icing. The icing should be of medium consistency. Buttercream is easier to form, but royal icing will dry harder.
 Grab the flower nail with your non-dominant hand and the piping bag with your dominant hand. Hold the round #7 tip perpendicular to the center of the flower nail, then squeeze the bag to form a relatively flat ball.

Once you're satisfied with the size of the ball, stop squeezing the bag. Lift the tip straight up and away after the icing stops flowing.
If the ball looks too rounded, dust your fingertip in cornstarch and gently press down on the top of the mound until the top surface looks slightly flat.
 Hold the petal decorating tip a 45-degree angle to the flower nail. Gently squeeze the bag. As the icing flows, spin the nail while simultaneously rocking the tip back and forth to create zigzags.

The wide end of the petal tip should touch the outer edge of the center ball when you start the row.
Once you complete a full rotation with the zigzag row, stop squeezing the bag. Carefully lift the tip straight up and away when the icing stops flowing.
 Use the same technique to create two or three more rows. Tilt the tip more dramatically for each consecutive row.The thin side of the tip should tilt upward at a higher angle, but the wide side should still touch the round base of the flower.
For the final row, you should pipe the zigzags directly over the flattened top of the center mound.
 Switch the #7 round tip for a small #1 round tip. Use the smaller round tip to pipe five dots over the exposed center of the zinnia.

To make the process less messy, you could attach the #1 tip to a third piping bag instead of switching out the larger tip.
For each dot, hold the tip perpendicular to the flower and squeeze gently. Release the pressure once a small dot forms, then lift the tip straight up and away.
 Allow the flower to dry for roughly 30 minutes, then carefully peel or slice it off with a flat knife.

Flowers made with royal icing might be hard enough to peel away with your fingers, but if the zinnia resists gently pressure, slice it off with a knife.
Attach the dried flower to your cake or other pastry surface using fresh icing.

