 Specifically this is the quality of your interactions with coworkers, various levels of management, the customer and supplier dynamic in the market and your own relationship with your own role.


The principle purpose of this exposes all the underlying relationships that you may or may not be aware of, and because of the fascinating relationship mindfulness shares with memory, the relationships that have simply faded away from our awareness. Reflecting on these often expose potential benefits as well as conflicts that should be explored. Often leaders can be rather laissez faire, or depending too much on simple improvisation - these in themselves can be exceptionally useful in various contexts, but not all. Mindfulness can allow you to pick and choose a more relevant management style that suits the situation.
 By recognising your state of mind in the moment is of enormous potential benefit. The reasons for this is if you are tired and overworked, or controlled by desire or anger to win or control, then you are sewing failure or - at best - a compromised result into any project you undertake.


A major one to keep an eye out is the inner "control freak" or "too busy" mind-state both in yourself and in others, as well as the state of mind that consistently looks for the faults in things. These are in themselves amazingly effective obstacles to creativity and narrowing the depth you can see into things. By letting go and stepping back to allow others to progress, or by developing means of cooperation can create a more harmonious, effective and value based solution to most parts of life.
Likewise, reflect on your own energy. None can be 100% perfect all of the time so occasionally your own wellbeing and energy levels will be affected. This allows you to recognise and act to unwind and relax, which also can inspire your colleagues to look after their own personal wellbeing and development.
 Often people tend to ignore the thought process unless it says what they want to hear and this reveals a critical divorce from the present moment - as we simply don't want to engage the situation fully, so we cannot create a holistic or complete solution. Additionally, this is robbing you of much in the way of developing new skills and can dramatically pull down your motivation and well being. By changing our perception subtly, or taking a fresh look after a break, this gives new energy to resolve old problems.


Ideas can often be practical, but very often, can be misguided and unhelpful if you aren't fully aware of the context. By being aware of them, you can dissect the thoughts and abandon those that are impractical or unbeneficial, but at the same time developing the practical and beneficial ones, thus training the mind to incline towards being more confident, calm, creative and practical. It is amazing to discover for yourself exactly when you are being led around by your internal deeper intentions that may be against your personal direct goals.
Gut feeling can often be something that is misused. Gut instinct to an experienced person is often surprisingly accurate in negotiations when determining when the person at the other end of the table is being honest. But often stronger desires can certainly shape the perception into being inaccurate. The desire to sign a deal can set you up for a very compromised result.
 This helps you be more calm generally in crisis management, but also helps you see beyond the "poker face" of many negotiators and their goals. There is a subtle difference between cool and aloof, so it is useful to distinguish the two.


In relationship to this method, stepping back for a little quiet time, observing more closely, or by varying team leaders if necessary so that a stale environment can be revived, will often allow many issues to resolve themselves.
 By practicing awareness, it becomes clear when you are falling away into fantasy plans and dream goals, or stewing away making plans to beat a rival, climb the corporate ladder or control others around you.


Being able to distinguish between useful ideas and unskillful ideas both in yourself and from others is a very valuable skill.

