 Getting charged with a crime is extremely stressful, and even innocent people say regrettable things under stress. If you are arrested, you have the right to remain silent. You also don't have to answer any questions before you are arrested, either. Refrain from commenting on the allegations until you have an attorney present.An attorney can help you respond and object to any improper questioning.
 If you have been accused of a crime and the prosecutor decides to charge you, you will need to defend yourself in court. If you cannot afford a criminal defense attorney, a public defender will be provided for you.Some people believe that innocent people don't need lawyers, or that hiring a lawyer is an admission of guilt. If you have been falsely accused of a crime, you need a lawyer to help plan and present your defense. There is too much at stake to try to represent yourself.
 Under a plea bargain, a defendant agrees to plead guilty in exchange for some benefit, such as a reduced sentence or lesser charge. Courts and prosecutors are overloaded with work, so prosecutors customarily offer plea bargains to lessen the caseload.Plea bargains can be enticing, even to innocent defendants, because the accused has option to end the whole process by pleading guilty and accepting a lesser punishment than he or she might face at trial. Remember though that a criminal conviction will affect your future.Don't be bullied into accepting blame for something you did not do.
 At the trial, the prosecution will argue and present evidence to try to corroborate the accuser's story. As the defendant, you will present evidence to refute the accuser's narrative and to support your own version of the events. Look for evidence and witnesses that can prove that you were not involved or present when the events took place. Your attorney will conduct discovery, which is the formal process by which attorneys collect and exchange information about the case.


For example, you can use a receipt from a gas station showing the date and time to show that you were not at the location of the incident at that time.
You can also use character witnesses, which are people who are willing to testify that based on how well they know you, they do not believe that you were involved in the incident.
 During the trial, the prosecution and defense will each present evidence and witnesses to support their versions of the story. After each witnesses testifies, the other side will have the opportunity to cross-examine the witness about the subject matter of his or her testimony. Let your attorney handle the details of your defense.


You can testify on your own behalf if you choose to. However, if you choose not to testify, the judge will instruct the jury not to infer guilt from your decision to remain silent. There are many good reasons not to testify, even if you are innocent. The prosecutor will get to ask you questions and try to trip you up, you may have difficulty speaking in public that makes a bad impression, or you may misspeak or misstate the facts.Talk to your attorney about whether you should testify.

