 Continue stirring until the color is evenly dispersed throughout the icing.


The amount of food coloring will determine how deep the green is. More food coloring will produce a darker green, while less food coloring will create a pastel green. If you add too much frosting, however, you could distort the consistency of the frosting.






Note that the frosting needs to be white before you begin. You will not be able to color chocolate frosting, strawberry frosting, or another type of frosting that already has a color to it.
 Scoop the green frosting into a pastry bag equipped with a smooth letter writing tip. You do not need any fancy sort of tip. Instead, a plain tip that only produces straight lines is preferable.


The amount of frosting you need to scoop into the bag will vary depending on how many footprints you want to make.






If you do not have a pastry bag, cut a small corner from a resealable plastic bag and transfer the green frosting into that, instead.
 You can set your plate with any food you want and in any manner you want. Ideally, though, in order to make it seem as though a leprechaun has been there, you should take a few nibbles or cut away a bite-shaped chunk of food from one of the items on your plate.


Possible examples of appropriate plate settings include:






A sandwich with a bite mark in it






Chips with “nibbled” edges






A cupcake or cookie with a small chunk “nibbled” out of it

, Place a small gold token underneath the “nibbled” portion of the food. This will be the end point for your leprechaun and the end of the footprint trail.


You could also use a chocolate coin wrapped in gold foil.
Leprechauns are associated with treasure, so any leprechaun willing to take a bite out of your child's lunch will likely leave that child a gold coin in payment.
 Use your pastry bag of frosting to draw small, narrow green ovals from the edge of the plate to the coin hidden beneath the food. Vary the arrangement of the ovals so that they look like sets of footprints rather than simply being a single straight dotted line.


Get creative with your leprechaun's path. Have the leprechaun walk around foods he doesn't like and step over and onto the food he does decide to sample.







