 Hydration's importance can't be stressed enough, as water keeps your strong, safe, and healthy. You should drink 4-8 ounces of water each hour at least two days before a race, along with electrolytes-rich foods like bananas and pretzels to help retain that water. One hour before running, gulp 16oz of water, and keep sipping before you leave.The best practice is to keep a water bottle with you all day, simply sipping throughout instead of trying to chug it down later. Constant hydration will do wonders for your stamina.;
, You want food that'll move through your body quickly and provide you with some lasting energy. Try toast with jelly and peanut butter, oatmeal with a bit of fruit, pasta with olive oil and lean chicken, or some granola and yogurt.You want a light mix of carbs, simple sugars, and a little bit of protein.
Avoid excessive dairy, greasy or fatty foods, and empty sugars found in candies and sweets.
 Over the course of a run, most people's bodies heat up 10-15 degrees, so assume it's about 10 degrees warmer outside, even if it means you must warm up while a little chilly. Try to avoid cotton shirts -- synthetics made for exercises are far more effective at staying dry and comfortable. Wet cotton is not only hot and sticky, it can get noticeably heavy.For races or big events, warm up in warm clothing, removing it once you have a light sweat going. This literally helps your muscles get warm, which makes them more pliable.
 Don't jump out the front door at top speed -- give you muscles some time to prepare themselves for the stress of a long run. A slow, light jog will lightly stretch and warm up your muscles, allowing you to gradually pick up speed.


Many runners like to jog for 5-10 minutes, then stop and stretch, allowing them to jump right into their normal running speed right as they start the clock.
 Studies show that the classic "stretch and hold" warm-up, performed on its own, can actually decrease muscle efficiency.Dynamic stretches, however, mimic real running more naturally to eliminate injuries and ensure peak performance. Try out at 30-60 seconds of the following exercises, using light stretching at the very end (10-15 seconds) to eliminate any soreness:


Lunges
Weightless squats
High knees and butt kickers
Skipping.
Side Shuffling
Running backwards