 Re-establishing contact with your cousin will put you on the right path to gaining her trust and getting her to like you.Keep your first messages simple so that you do not overwhelm her, nor she you.


There are different ways to reach out to your cousin, including a letter, an email, or a phone call. Social media is also an option: You could (re)friend her on Facebook or follow her on Instagram. Even this small gesture helps break the ice and pave the way for further communication.
Start with a simple message, such as, "We used to be so close and I have missed you. It would be great to be in contact more frequently if you like." This kind of message lets her know your feelings and puts the ball in her court regarding further contact.
Do not mention previous problems or any family issues. There is a time and a place to bring up these matters and generally both of you will know when you are ready to open up about them.Do not insult or berate her in any way. If you do not have anything nice to say, it may be best to wait until you can treat her positively and with respect.
If you do not have your cousin's contact information, ask family members or use an online search engine such as Google to find her email address or phone number.;
, There are two parts to being a good communicator: Speaking and listening. Talk with your cousin and listen to what she has to say. This will show her that you are serious about her and your relationship.Be consistent in your communications. Once you have reestablished contact with your cousin, be consistent in your communications. This does not mean you have to respond to messages or calls immediately, but having regular contact will build trust between you.
One of the most important components of gaining your cousin’s trust is by listening to her. Show her that her interests and problems are important to you.For example, if she is having trouble in school or with friends, talk to her about her feelings and help her find a solution to the problem.
Sharing secrets with one another will also help gain your cousin's trust. Just make sure not to tell anyone her secrets because this may lead to conflict., Make your cousin feel comfortable and relaxed when you are talking or spending time together. Being respectful of her and flexible in your own behavior will help gain her trust and get her to like you more.Your cousin may have different beliefs and values than you. Respect and appreciate those differences to show that you’re serious about your relationship.Being respectful includes not insulting your cousin or her family members. Taunting or tattling on her or telling her secrets to others is also a sign of disrespect., Once you’ve had a chance to establish consistent contact with your cousin, suggest meeting in person. Avoid doing this at a family gathering, however, which can be very stressful and exacerbate problems.


Keep your first meetings simple. Suggest coffee, lunch, a movie, or sporting event. You can meet for longer periods once you have had a chance to see each other in shorter spans.
 Listen to what your cousin says and draw on threads from conversations in your interactions with her. This shows that you pay attention to what she says and are genuinely interested in her and your relationship.One of the best ways to show interest in your cousin is to ask her questions. They can be as simple as “do you like to…” to asking her to explain something about her education or where she lives., A good way to build your friendship with your cousin and get her to truly like you is to find your commonalities. These will give you a starting point for your interactions.On the surface it might seem as though you and your cousin do not have much in common. But if you keep your contact consistent and ask her questions about herself, you are likely to find things that both of you have in common, from something as simple as personality traits to similar hobbies.For example, maybe you both like to play online games or enjoy Pinterest. You could set up a match against one another or follow her Pinterest boards.
You can use not having many commonalities to benefit both of you. This may give each of you a different way to look at the world or introduce you to new activities that you enjoy.For example, if your cousin loves hiking and you have never really been hiking, consider a hike together. You might enjoy it and even if you do not, it will still help her like you more because you’re open to new experiences., Talking to your cousin as often as your schedules permit will build your relationship significantly. By keeping your conversations positive and light, you will laugh often and strengthen your relationship even more.Social media has made it easier to stay in contact with cousins. You can find different ways to stay in touch with your cousin on websites such as Facebook and Twitter.
The prevalence of cell phones has made it easier to send text messages. You can send either traditional text messages or use free messaging services such as Viber and What’sApp.
Online video chatting, through applications like Skype or FaceTime, also make it easy to stay in touch in a much more personal way.
Remember to stay positive and respectful. Do not insult or willingly hurt her. If you do accidentally hurt her, apologize and move on.
 Spending and having a good time together at different activities helps not only build your relationship, but also trust.Making your cousin laugh or laughing at something funny she does will help get her to like you. Everyone loves a person who makes others feel happy.
Be flexible in what you do. You won’t necessarily like every activity your cousin suggests or likes, as she won’t necessarily have the same taste as you. But being flexible will help build your relationship. Your cousin should be as respectful of your choices, too.Make sure to spend time together outside of family gatherings. They can often be stressful and create unwanted drama in relationships., It’s natural for there to be periods when you won’t be in very close contact with your cousin or be able to get together. But even sending a simple message such as “hey there, hope you’re doing well” lets her know that she’s important to you.


Stay in touch with your cousin on websites such as Facebook and Twitter.
Call or text her. You can send either traditional text messages or use free messaging services such as Viber and What’sApp.
Online video chatting, via applications like Skype or FaceTime, also make it easy to stay in touch in a more personal way.
 Beyond staying in contact, it’s good to show your cousin that you care about her. There are many simple ways to do this from remembering her birthday to offering to help with a problem.Remembering important dates to your cousin will help maintain your relationship. Write down birthdays, anniversaries, and event important upcoming events so that you send your cousin wishes on these dates.
Offering to help your cousin, when she has a problem or otherwise, also shows that you still care about her. This can be as simple as babysitting when her regular sitter cancels, helping her with homework, or helping her shop for a special item of clothing., It’s normal to have ups and downs in any relationship, but by keeping your behavior towards your cousin respectful and largely positive, you’ll be able to maintain your relationship long term.You’ll occasionally have negative emotions or moments in any chat or interaction. Do your best to handle these situations in a calm and respectful manner and then move on.
Avoiding family drama will help you to keep the relationship with your cousin respectful and positive.