 One like "snowangle12" is fine... If you think bad spelling (it's 'angel') and unoriginality makes a good username. Yeah, no. Try to be creative and unique with your Animal Jam username. This will make it - and you - memorable. A decent username can be pretty hard to come by, so if you do, only take it if you're certain that you will commit yourself and not become another 'Over 30 days'.


have numbers in your username Twinkle... 0122. Animaljammer... 330.
If you're one of those lucky few who manage to snatch a one-word username (e.g. Aparri, Bepper, Skorm, Bruizer, Choruss, Refraction), capitalizing the first letter is recommended.
What do WisteriaMoon, LilacPetal, WootMoo, GummyUnicorn, BubblegumBee and WooshieWoo all have in common? They all have names in two, capitalized parts. However, WooshieWoo's Animal Jam username is styled as Wooshiewoo, as Jammers can no longer capitalize their username except for the first letter.
You can change your username once by e-mailing AJHQ at support@animaljam.com and requesting a username change.;
, You will become popular.
 Whether you like it or not, rares are a big part of Animal Jam and something that does contribute and sometimes even cause fame. One long Rare Spiked Collar should be good for appearances, but keep in mind that, while rares are more important than people like to admit, it's not the smartest idea to show them off., One word: giveaways. Big giveaways. Show your fans that you really do care about them!


If possible, log into Animal Jam daily, especially on Mondays to get the RIM (Rare Item Monday). While most rares, especially member ones, fizzle out, some will amass rarity over time. A good example of this is the Rare Necklace, which many people recycle due to its undesirable nature. However, it is now worth up to as much as a Headdress. Even if it's tempting to recycle that member or non-member RIM to make room for other, better rares, keep a hold on them. Make a separate, storage account exclusively for those little things that may or may not be the next black long!

, Choose your own animal. Arctic wolfs are used by everyone so you can uses an animal that no one uses and maybe you can start making jammers wear that animal Note if you are nonmember, you can always use wolves or bunnies.


When you think of WolfDog, you think of a wolf. Their looks are cool because they match their personality.
 Don't copy a personality; create your own. Try to match up your outfit to make a kind of signature look.
 Make one hundred friends. Delete people now and again so more people get the chance to buddy you.



Get at least ten subs before you take it up a notch.
 Examples: Sky High, Nyan cat challenge, Talkshows, Music Videos, Mail times (if you are famous enough to get a lot of gifts, never ask people to gift you for a mail time) Daily jamaaliday gifts ( It depends on the time of year, such as Halloween ) Make sure to leave links on your YouTube channel to your social media pages.


Make any videos you think are interesting and post them to your channel. Never make a video that says: I just got a Rare Spiked Collar. It will make you seem of less interest to your viewers.
 If you do this, more people will recognize you and you'll become more famous.

Some good sites to use: Twitter, Tumblr, Facebook, Google+, or Instagram.
 These include the activities explained in this section.,, Make money, have many animals, many dens, and rares. Recycle store bought items that you get in mail times to get gems.
, This will open up lots more opportunities to increase your fame in the game.
 This will be a place where others can come and spend time hanging out with you, thereby making you famous.
 Make a club/clan name that can be perfect. like, AJ Rockers, Beetles, Bag Bugs, or anything else.
 You want jammers to know it's a club/clan, so make the club/clan epic, like put epic rare stuff in your den or so.
, Talk about what you do in the club/clan, like, you might sing, do adventures, bands, it doesn't matter.
 If you scam, you will have a chance of getting suspended for a day, a week, a month, or even for an infinite period of time.
 Hacking is a way to get banned even though it could get you many rares.

