 Sexual harassment is one form of workplace harassment, but it isn’t the only form. You can harassed on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, national origin, disability, age, or genetic information.Consider the following behaviors, which might qualify as harassment:

derogatory remarks or slurs based on the protected characteristic
intimidation
threats and physical assaults
telling offensive jokes

, You’ll want to give Human Resources as much information as possible. Accordingly, you should sit down and write down the following:Who harassed you and their relationship to you. You can be harassed by a supervisor or by a co-worker. Also, the harassment can come from someone as the same sex as you.
When each harassing act occurred—date, time, and location. Also write down what the person said or did, and how you responded.
Who witnessed the harassment. Write down their names and job titles.
What tangible evidence you have of the harassment. For example, you may have harassing emails, voice mails, or notes.
 Set up your letter like a standard business letter. If you know the name of the contact in Human Resources, then include that in the salutation. Call and ask if you don’t know., In the first paragraph, you should give HR some idea why you are writing to them. For example, you should state that you want to lodge a complaint about harassment and identify your harasser.
 Be clear and get to the point.You want to provide enough information that HR can see there is a harassment problem that needs investigation. Explain where and when the harassment occurred, as well as who witnessed it.


Describe the incidents in chronological order, which is the easiest for people to understand.
In some larger organizations, HR might not know everyone, such as a coworker. You should identify who they are, e.g., “Jason Jones, who works in the cubicle next to me, saw our boss make the obscene gesture.”
Stick to the facts. You shouldn’t make any kind of allegation or charge that you can’t back up with proof, such as your written memories or a witness. For example, don’t speculate about your boss or coworker’s motivation for what they said or did. You don’t know that.
 This is legally important. Harassment is only illegal if it is unwelcome.If you welcomed the harassing behavior, then you haven’t been harassed according to the law. You should state what you did or said in response. For example, you might have told someone not to touch you.

Also explain if you tried to resolve the issue. For example, you might have met with your harasser to ask them to stop making sexually-explicit jokes.
Remember to explain how the harassment made you feel. For example, you might have had trouble working in a team with the person who was harassing you, which caused you to skip work or perform below your usual standards.
 At the end of the letter, you should state what you want from HR. For example, you might want to be transferred to a different department. You can also request that HR investigate and punish your harasser. However, you should probably avoid telling HR to “fire” your harasser. That’s their judgment to make.


Remember to end the letter by thanking HR for their time. Insert “Best” or “Sincerely,” and then sign the letter.
 Although you may be angry, you should try not to show it. Using foul language can only undermine your ability to get help. In fact,, the person reading the letter might become angry at you.Instead of writing, “I’m so pissed right now,” write “I am angry.”
Instead of “my boss is a bigot,” write “Mr. Jones intimidates me by repeatedly yelling at me using racial slurs.”

, After you sign your letter, make a copy before sending it. Also hold onto any supporting documentation, such as emails, voicemails, notes, or witness statements. You may need to share them if HR opens an investigation.