 Often these stores will sell used instruments at a lower price. Employees will be well-versed in instrument quality and be able to help you choose a guitar based on your experience and budget.

Even if a music store does not sell used instruments, chat with the employees about your search. They may know used bass guitar sellers nearby or tell you more about what to look for in a used instrument.
Contact local instrument repair stores as well. Their employees may know of a used guitar seller, or they may even be willing to renovate a used bass guitar for you at a reasonable price.
 Check thrift stores in your area for used bass guitars. Often players will donate their old guitars in decent condition. Bass guitars at thrift stores are not usually in perfect condition, but they are often cheaper. You never know what surprise buy you might find in a thrift store., Flea markets and pawn shops can also be an inexpensive place to buy an instrument. Check for flea market listings in your town and ask vendors if they know of any instrument sellers. Pawn shops also sell items in good condition for a low price, much like thrift stores.

Often pawn shops sell used vintage instruments at a low price. If you are an experienced player, a vintage bass guitar might be of interest to you. Ask the seller or store owner for a certificate of authenticity, especially if the used bass guitar is older.
 Check your city's classifieds online or in the newspaper for people selling their guitars. If you buy a bass guitar from a local seller, you can ask them about their experience with the guitar and what qualities they enjoyed about it.

If you're in no hurry, you could also check local garage sales. Because you never know what someone will sell at their yard sale, this could be a time-consuming process.
 Check online marketplaces or auction sites for used bass guitars. When searching online, make sure to ask the seller lots of questions about their bass guitar and ask for a variety of photos. Because you won't be able to determine its quality in-person, you'll want to get a clear idea of its condition.Don't buy from a seller who uses simple descriptions or refuses to send you more pictures. They may be scamming you or trying to hide a flaw.
Check your seller's feedback before you make a purchase. If they have high ratings, you're more likely to receive a guitar in good condition.

