 You can use many travel websites such as Expedia or Priceline to check for the cheapest rate.Enter the dates you need the car and you can compare prices.

Some travel websites also offer a price guarantee. If you find a cheaper deal after booking your car, they will honor the lower price. However, you will need to continue to search for a lower rate.
Alternately, you can stay on top of the cheapest rates at Autoslash.com, which continuously checks for lower rates.As an added benefit, you can also book your car through the Autoslash website.;
, The best-known rental companies are national chains such as Hertz and Enterprise. But there are many regional and local companies that charge lower rates than their better-known competitors.You can find smaller companies using Carrrentalexpress.com. Search based on your airport or address.Your hotel might also know of smaller rental car companies.
 Rental car companies can increase their rates by as 30 percent or more at the airport. In fact, many cities require that a rental car tax be applied at the airport. If possible, rent from a company located off-premises.Look online to see where the nearest office is away from the airport. You may only need to hop on public transportation to find a cheaper option.
 If you only need a car for a few hours, look into Zipcar. Their rates typically average $7-10 an hour. However, you need to have a membership, which will cost at least $6 a month and takes about a week to process. You also need to pay a $25 application fee.Zipcar is not cheaper than a traditional rental if you need the car for a day or more.However, Zipcar is probably ideal if you need to make a series of short drives over the course of several months. In this situation, paying the membership will be cost-effective.
 Some people will rent out their car. Websites such as Getaround and Turo are the Airbnb of the emerging car rental market.You can join for free and enter details about where and when you will need the car.

At Getaround, you’ll need to enter your driver’s license number. The company will then pull a driver’s history report on you.