 The preppy look is generally played down, so simple items are key. A busy outfit, or one with a lot of layers, will not blend well with the preppy style.Go for clothing in solid colors or simple patterns.
Pick items that are cut somewhat conservatively. Avoid revealing clothing.
Do not over-layer or over accessorize. Stick to minor layering, like cardigans and blazers, over outfits with a variety of mismatched layers.;
, When it comes to colors, you want to select colors that exemplify the preppy look. Preppy clothing tends to go for a classic palate made up of navies, whites, and crimsons. You can also incorporate colors such as burgundies, emerald greens, and deep browns.You should not avoid bright colors altogether, however. Bright and bold primary colors can also work well, especially with items like dresses and skirts. Opt for a bright green or red top or white jeans.Also, be conscientious about how you match colors. Pay attention to the color wheel and select complimentary colors when matching. For example, you can wear a red jacket over a green shirt.
 Preppy outfits are relatively simple in nature. They usually come down to a few classic clothing items that never really go out of style. If you want to look preppy, stock up on some basic essentials for your wardrobe.Bright tunics, white jeans, a shift dress, and cardigans are several must have items that will stay in style long term.
Polo shirts, navy suits, and oxford shirts are also classic preppy attire.
Sweaters are another staple of the preppy look, especially for the cooler months. Go for argyle sweaters to really exemplify the preppy feel., Khakis are heavily associated with the preppy style. If you want to look preppy, stock up on some khaki pants for your wardrobe. These match with most outfits and rarely go out of style. A few solid pairs of well-fitted khaki pants can be an excellent addition to a preppy wardrobe.Khaki pants can be both formal and informal, so get a pair of each. You can wear khaki pants to a casual hangout with friends or wear dressy khaki pants with a nice blouse or button down top to a formal occasion.
 Patterns are important to any wardrobe option, but only certain patterns come off as truly preppy. If you want to get a preppy look, go for classic patterns that are not too busy or bold. Remember, relative simplicity is key to the preppy style.Plaid is a classic preppy pattern and it's easy to find plaid wardrobe items in a store.
You can also go for other classic patterns like gingham, paisley, and tweed.
Polka dots are a cute pattern that many people add to a preppy wardrobe., Shirts with popped collars are a staple of a preppy wardrobe. In general, aim for shirts that have a collar you can pop. Wearing, say, a button-downed shirt with a popped collar will truly make you look preppy.A patterned or solid colored button down shirt looks great with a popped collar.
You can also try a polo shirt with a popped collar.
 Never forget about your footwear when selecting a preppy wardrobe. As with other aspects of preppy style, preppy shoes should be classic and somewhat conservative.Moccasins, dress boots, and loafers are great additions to a preppy wardrobe.
You can also wear flats, wedges, riding boots, or nude pumps.
 Preppy hairstyles are usually classic and clean cut. Keep your hair clean and brushed at all times. Go for a conservative cut. You can opt for a short hairstyle, parted down the middle, or wear your hair slightly longer while occasionally pulling it back in a bun or ponytail. Just make sure to get your hair cut regularly and wash and comb your hair each day.Side parts and pompadours are great classic preppy hairstyles., Headbands are a cute, classic accessory that can be paired with many outfits. A headband is great because it does not overpower an outfit. Simplicity is key to preppy style, so you should choose accessories that aren't too gaudy or bold.When selecting headbands, choose them in preppy colors and patterns. A headband with red polka dots, for example, could be paired with a green dress.
Avoid headbands that are too big or bold. A very large headband in a fluorescent or very vibrant shade is unlikely to look preppy.
 Pearls are classic and played down. This helps them fit easily into a preppy wardrobe. Wear a string of pearls with a dress or shirt. Put in pearl earrings. You can also try wearing a pearl brooch with a blazer.Pearls can be expensive, so look for discount pearls or fake pearls.
 Sunglasses are a classic aspect of a preppy wardrobe. Go for sunglasses that are somewhat played down. They should fit your face well without being too large. Stick to neutral colored frames, like black and white frames, over frames that are too vibrantly colored., A monogrammed belt buckle is an excellent addition to a preppy wardrobe. Go for a sterling silver belt buckle, as this best exemplifies the preppy style. You want to avoid any belt buckle that's too big, as this can look too gaudy to fit in a preppy wardrobe., A watch is a classic item for a preppy wardrobe. Stick to a relatively simple watch in a neutral color. A good watch can go with just about any outfit, so it's worth investing in a quality watch., There are some rules of fashion that preppy people know and follow. If you want to come off as preppy, always avoid breaking such rules. People will not think of you as truly preppy if you commit certain fashion faux pas.When wearing loafers, you should never wear socks.
Never wear an outfit completely devoid of color. If you're wearing, say, a black dress, wear earrings, a scarf, or a necklace that adds color to your outfit.
 Preppy people are known to have excellent social graces. Therefore, strive to be polite in social settings. This will make you come off as preppy.Smile and make eye contact when talking to people.
Remember basic manners, like saying things like please, thank you, and excuse me.
Follow social conventions. Write a thank-you card when you receive a gift. If you're staying in someone's home, bring the host a gift.
 Things like swimming, horseback riding, tennis,a and golf are all preppy hobbies. Try to join clubs or teams in your area where you can engage in such hobbies. You can, for example, sign up for horseback riding lessons or join your school's swim team., Part of being preppy is being well-groomed at all times. Make sure to wear deodorant, shower daily, and put on a light layer of perfume or cologne. Keep your hair brushed throughout the day and, if you wear makeup, touch it up on occasion.


Care for your nails. You don't have to paint them if you don't want to, but keep both your fingernails and toenails trimmed and filed into a nice shape.