 Many genki girls have flawless skin, and quite a few of them have extensive skin-care routines. While it's impossible for anyone to have flawless skin, especially in their teen years, follow good skin-care routines to keep your skin looking its best.


Everyone gets acne at some point, and you can choose whether or not to hide it. It's okay to not look picture-perfect every day, but do what makes you feel most comfortable.;
, Some genki girls have normal hair that they leave hanging down, and it can be curly, wavy, or straight. However, some style their hair in different ways, and some have hair that most people think must be dyed! You can choose to style your hair however you want, whether it's left down or dyed; however, make sure you wash your hair at the very least. If your hair is prone to tangling, make sure it doesn't tangle up, either, as that can result in knotted hair, which can be hard to fix!

, It might be confusing to know how this relates to being a genki girl, but genki girls have to be healthy - otherwise, they can't fulfill the genki part (since that's what the word "genki" translates to!). If your body isn't functioning at its best, it'll be hard to be so energetic, so eat fruits, vegetables, grains, and protein to get the nutrients you need.


Drink plenty of water. This will keep your body in top-notch shape, and will also help with keeping your skin clear.
It's okay to eat unhealthy foods once in awhile. Just do this in moderation. Your energy can't come from eating sugar all the time!

, It's very rare that you see a genki girl looking bad. Even when most people would be looking disheveled (for example, after having rolled out of bed in the morning), genki girls generally still look quite good, just a little bit more "tousled" than usual. Obviously, it's pretty hard to keep yourself looking good after an intense sports match or during your sleep, but do your best to at least look presentable, even if you are a tad messy.
 You don't need to be a fashion diva (unless you want to be, of course), but you should at least try to make your clothing look presentable. Wear clothing that's properly sized, don't force yourself to wear something you don't like or aren't comfortable in, and don't feel boxed in by constraints of normal fashion. If you want to wear something loud and flashy, that's your right!


That being said, in today's society, dressing in patterns that don't match or in a style that's not typical may cause people to make fun of you. You can either choose to wear something more conformist, or go all-out and not care what people think.
Be careful with taking "loud and flashy" literally. Some clothing exists that lights up or makes noise, but this doesn't mean it's appropriate for where you're going all the time.
Many genki girls would be considered cute, adorable, or some other term that would refer to a "youthful innocence". You can try modeling your style after this, but ultimately, how you dress is completely up to you.
 Genki girls are meant to be unique and not a whole lot of them stand out in terms of their appearance. Why not pick out something that's specific to you and you alone, to make yourself a unique, noticeable genki girl? Whether it's a specific hairstyle, a special accessory that isn't too common, or that same scarf with the wacky pattern that you've always secretly liked, finding something that's unique to you can bring you a step closer to being a recognizable genki girl.
 There are many types of genki girls all around anime and manga, and there's no way to act like every single one of them. There are the genki girls who go all-out and are noisy and energetic to no bounds, but there are also some more reserved genki girls who aren't nearly as loud and hyper (but still are quite happy and excitable). There's no way to emulate every genki girl out there, but there are general guidelines that you can follow in order to be a genki girl.


Don't mix up being a genki girl with being cheerful and optimistic. While genki girls are fairly cheerful, they need to have the extra energetic "kick" in their lifestyle to be considered a true genki girl.
 Quite a few genki girls are known for being unique and recognizable, and you should be unique, too! Develop your own style of dressing, talking, and behaving. Make yourself recognizable, so that people will know you and know that you're a genki girl.


You can also come up with a catchphrase, if you wish, since many genki girls (and anime characters in general) are known for having a catchphrase.
 Nobody recognizes a sad, negatively-thinking character as a genki girl, and being too harsh on everything will just drive people away from you. Stay positive and cheerful, even when it's hard. It's okay to have bad days, but they shouldn't completely dominate your feelings!



Be confident, too. Many characters who fit the archetype of being a genki girl are quite confident and have a "we can do it" attitude. They don't think they can do it, they know they can do it!

, Stress is unavoidable, but it's also important to have ways to manage it. Genki girls are excitable because of their natural bubbly personality, not because of their stress! If stress is a constant issue for you, it's important to find ways to deal with it so that it doesn't interfere with your cheerful, excitable genki nature.


If you're visibly stressed and others ask you about it, try saying something like, "I've got ten tests today and I'm really not wanting to take them right now!" with an air of cheerfulness to it. Be careful not to make it sound sarcastic, though!

, Genki girls are incredibly loyal friends, and often tend to make everyone else laugh and feel good. (In fact, that's one of the things that they tend to enjoy doing!) Do random acts of kindness for your friends (and even strangers), do your best to stay out of fights and arguments, and show your eagerness when your friends join you (such as by waving your arms or jumping up and down).


If you're in a romantic relationship, that's great, but remember not to abandon your friends and family for your partner. Genki girls are loyal to their friends and family first. (But don't completely ignore your partner, either!)
Some girls don't have the best families or home life, and/or have bad friends. If this is the case with you, be cautious. You don't need to be blindly loyal to people who you dislike or who mistreat you just because this article said to be loyal.
 Not just in terms of walking, but in terms of life, too! Since genki girls are known for being energetic, do everything a little faster than you normally would, whether it's walking, speaking, or completing tasks. Make it look like you're always eager to get to the next task in the day.


Of course, don't rush tasks that require precision or may affect you in the long-term. You might think it fits your genki girl nature to study quickly, but you'll regret that decision when you get your test back and find out that you got a bad grade.
 While a comical quirk of genki girls is to run everywhere and swing their arms around wildly while doing so, you obviously don't need to take it to that extreme. However, being a little extra bouncy and animated in your movements is a great touch. Wave your arms around when talking, bounce up and down on your feet, put an extra spring in your step - the choice of how you display your energy is yours.
 A noticeable trait of genki girls is to speak louder than others do. Make sure not to shout, though! Just raising your voice slightly is fine. If you shout, you're likely to annoy people (and possibly hurt their ears).
 If your aim is to be loud and energetic, you'll want to make sure that people want to hear what you have to say, right? Developing a good sense of humor, and possibly a sense of wit, can make others much more interested in what you want to say - and keep in mind that being funny is a common trait of genki girls, too.
 Genki girls are known for being hyperactive, happy, and excitable, so if you currently feel the opposite of that, let it show. People who know you as being so cheerful and energetic will notice your change in pace and tone, and will take it seriously.


Obviously, if you never feel like being energetic, then this won't do much. You might be better off emulating another anime character archetype that doesn't require you to be so noisy.
 There are times when being hyperactive or loud just isn't appropriate for the situation. Being a genki girl isn't about being disruptive or disrespectful, so show respect when you need to and keep quiet when it's best for you to do so.


Avoid disrupting people at times when they're trying to focus (e.g. at school or work), or when they're trying to talk to people about something. This isn't funny to them, and it can even get you kicked out of public places.
Generally, if you think behaving in your genki nature in the scenario would make people upset or angry with you, don't do it.
 You don't have to be happy all of the time - but having a smile on your face is a nice touch, whether or not you're a genki girl. It'll draw people towards you and let you know that being cheerful is one of your best aspects. That's the best part of being a genki girl.

