 You need to keep your pet's rear end as clean as possible. UTIs are more common in females than males because of the vulva's shape and proximity to the anus.Because it's so wide, it's a good entry point for fecal contamination from the anus.


Whether your pet's male or female, clip the hair around your rear end and genitals. This decreases the chance of feces or bacteria from mud sticking to the dog's private parts.
If the dog gets mucky, give him a good bath, making sure to clean the fur by the genitals.;
, The longer urine sits in the bladder, the more chance bacteria have to multiply. Regular urination flushes bacteria out of the bladder, decreasing the chances for an infection.Ideally, your dog should empty his bladder at least every four hours.


An adult dog can hold his urine for 8 - 10 hours, but that doesn't make it a good idea. Give your dog plenty of opportunities for comfort breaks.
Let the dog out last thing at night and first thing in the morning to minimize how long he has to hold his urine at night.
 Bacteria make toxins that inflame the bladder lining and let the bacteria attach and invade. If your dog drinks a lot, the water dilutes those toxins, decreasing the chances of getting an infection.Make sure all drinking bowls are large, deep, and clean.
Make sure there's always water in drinking bowls — never let them go dry!
Clean the bowl daily and completely replace the water.
If your dog is elderly or stiff on his legs, provide a water bowl in every room.
 You may have heard that these are good home remedies for UTIs. In theory, they improve the pH balance in the urine and kill the infection. There is a risk, though, that you'll raise the acid level too high, causing bladder stones instead of a UTI.


Stick to a prescription diet instead of home remedies. See a veterinarian for advice on how to proceed.
 If your dog is susceptible to UTIs, you might consider asking the vet to prescribe special food. The ideal pH for dog urine is 6.2-6.4. A prescription diet is designed specifically to produce this pH level.


If you get prescription kibble, encourage the dog to drink water by leaving bowls in multiple locations, freely available.
Wet prescription food will have more moisture than kibble, and help hydrate your dog even more. Wet food containers take up a lot of space, though, and wet food usually results in smellier feces.
 He may also be more insistent, as though every time is an emergency. Increased urgency is a tell-tale sign of UTI.


You might also notice repeated urinating behavior (squatting or leg-cocking) without urination. The dog might feel like he or she needs to urinate, but be unable to urinate when let outside.
 If you suspect your dog might have a UTI, though, watch the urine stream mid-air, before it hits the ground. If it looks like it has blood in it, take the dog to the veterinarian immediately.
 Older dogs with heath issues like kidney disease or diabetes tend to drink more water to deal with their condition. This can lead to "subclinical infections" due to increased urination. There's bacteria present, but not enough to cause observable signs of discomfort.


The only way to test for a subclinical infection is having a vet test a urine sample. Some vets recommend doing this as part of older dogs' regular medical routines.
If your dog has a history of subclinical infections, have its urine tested every three to six months.
 The "infection" part of UTI signals the presence of an infectious agent like bacteria. This needs medical treatment, so you need to take your pet to the vet as soon as possible. If you can, collect a sample of the dog's urine to take with you, as this may speed up the diagnosis.
 If you're taking steps to keep UTIs at bay, but your dog keeps getting them, they might be an underlying health problem. This problem may be weakening your dog's immune system or bladder tissue, resulting in increased UTIs. Identifying and treating the problem will reduce the chance of UTI. Ask your vet to run tests to identify potential causes for your dog's problems. This might include:


Blood tests: The vet can check for conditions that may make the dog drink more and have weaker urine (kidney, liver disease, diabetes)
Imaging: An ultrasound can check for the presence of polyps, bladder cancer, bladder stones, and other issues which can affect the bladder lining.
Urine sediment exam: The veterinarian urine sediment under a microscope for crystals that might explain the dog's issues.

