 Vodka, or another high-proof grain alcohol, is perfect for this, since it has both water and alcohol to dissolve the oils. While apple cider vinegar or glycerin can be used instead, the final tincture will be much less strong and have a shorter shelf life. White vinegar will also work, but have the same effect. These are good for children that cannot drink alcohol, although if you use this for baking, the alcohol bakes out.Homemade tinctures, just like vanilla extract you would buy in a store, are normally used in such small doses that the alcohol does not have a noticeable effect.


For dried mint leaves, use vodka containing 45–60% alcohol (90–120 proof).
For fresh mint leaves, since they already contain water, use vodka or Everclear with 90–95% alcohol (180–190 proof).;
, Chop a bundle of fresh mint leaves into two or three pieces, or mash the leaves with a clean cup base, so more oils will be exposed to the liquid.Dried mint leaves can be crumbled by hand instead, or left mostly whole.


Wash fresh mint leaves before chopping.
There's no need to remove the stems, but throw away any slick or dark leaves, as these may be rotting.
 Stuff the jar with mint, leaving as little as ½ inch (1.25 centimeters) of space if you want the option for a stronger tincture. You may use a smaller amount of mint leaves if you like, but you may end up with a less aromatic or flavorful result. Once the mint is in, pour the alcohol or other liquid into the jar, completely covering the leaves. Close the lid of the jar tightly.


The leaves may float at first. You can try to push them down with a spoon, but they should sink on their own after a few days.
 The exact length of time simply depends on how strong you want your tincture to be, but it usually takes between four and eight weeks.Most people prefer to store the jar in a dark place, since sunlight could lower the tincture's shelf life. Once or twice a week, shake the jar for a couple minutes to speed up the dissolving process.


You can taste a drop of the mixture to decide whether it's strong enough for you.
 Pour the liquid through a coffee filter to remove the leaves and sediment. Store the tincture in a brown glass container to protect it from sunlight and increase its shelf life. It can last for six months or more, although it may lose its potency gradually.


If the tincture has a vodka smell to it, or isn't as strong as you would like, leave the jar out for another week with a fresh coffee filter or cloth over the lid. Some of the alcohol will evaporate., Stir one to three drops into hot chocolate, hot water, or herbal tea. If your tincture is weak, you can add more. This adds up to an insignificant amount of alcohol, so don't worry about getting tipsy.


Drinking peppermint can help with some forms of indigestion, but avoid it if you have acid reflux (heartburn), or a hernia., Roughly 1/2 tsp (2.5 mL) of your mint extract is enough to flavor a pan of brownies, or a batch of fudge or meringues. You may need to experiment with the amount used, since homemade tinctures vary in strength. For some recipes, such as frosting, it's easy to mix in a little at a time and test by taste.
 Peppermint extract can repel ants, flies, and moths, but has little effect on mice or rats.Dampen cotton balls with the tincture and place them around the area where pests were found. Replace the cotton balls once or twice a week.


Keep the cotton balls out of reach of pets.
 Some studies show that peppermint oil may enhance concentration. Drop the tincture onto a cloth and smell it before studying, then again before taking a test, or any time you feel stressed or tired.
 Mix a few drops in sweet almond oil, olive oil, shea butter, or any other skin-safe oil to make a salve. Rub it onto your chest to help with congestion, or onto sore muscles, joints, or poison ivy rashes to relieve the pain. Rub it onto your forehead and temples to fight tension headaches.