 Jacking up a vehicle on an incline or other uneven surface is extremely unsafe. Make sure your work space is level and the area under the vehicle is correctly paved and firmly supported.;
, The owner's manual for a vehicle generally has information about safe practices for raising your vehicle off the ground.
 It's important to have stands with an adequate safety rating for the size of your car or truck.You can find this in your owners manual, online, or on the plaque in your door jamb








, This will prevent the vehicle from rolling while it is supported. In addition, use wheel chocks on both sides (front and rear) of the wheels opposite (front or rear) to where you are lifting to prevent the car from moving forward or backward. A car lurching forward or backward can fall off the jack and injure or even kill you. WARNING: Chocks are essential when the rear wheels are lifted since the parking brake usually sets on the rear wheels. Without a chock, the front wheels can roll even if your parking brake is on.
 Many cars come with a standard jack (like a scissor jack) and wrench that ship with the vehicle from the factory but these are not for standard use, only for only emergency tire changes. For regular jobs, use a floor jack, a generic jack that can lift all vehicles effectively, such as a hydraulic trolley jack. Only use the jack on a solid, level surface such as concrete. Never use jack stands on soil, wet ground, or hot asphalt since the weight of the car can cause the jack stands to sink into the ground and the car can fall off them when they slip. 








, Your owner's manual will likely have information about where to support the vehicle with jack stands. Generally, your vehicle will have a small divot in the chassis near the wheel where you can put the jack stand.









Make sure not to put the jack stand under elements like the floorboards of the vehicle. This may cause the jack to break through the floor. Also, do not put the jack stand under a moving part such as an element of the suspension of the vehicle.
 Experts recommend using at least two jack stands of the same heights so that the vehicle is supported equally on both sides.
 When the jack stands are in place, push the vehicle with your hand to see if it moves or shakes. Make sure you push from both sides and the rear. If it shakes, reorient the jack stands (after using the jack) until the vehicle is stable.
 Though jack stands and wheel chocks provide good stability, it is worth being extra cautious with your life on the line. For additional safety, raise the jack under a solid point under the car to the extent to where it is snug but not supporting the weight of the car (the jack stands should continue to do this). Also, you can put a spare tire (with rim) or blocks of wood under the car to catch the car if it falls. Never, ever, use concrete blocks or bricks since these can crumble under the weight of the car.








