 If you are planning a nighttime excursion, try scoping the area out during the day. This will provide valuable information on escape routes and access points.;
, Know how dangerous it is. It would be stupid to sneak into a bank or someone else's home.
 You're more likely to get caught inside someone's home than inside a construction zone or something of the sort. Make smart choices.
 If at night, black is not best as it can define your human shape more clearly. Try dark navy blue or dark green. Also, an army beanie hat can break up the outline of your head.
 While moving around, wait for the person to turn their back, or throw something to make a sound which will draw they're attention away from your vicinity.
 Footwear is also key. Soft rubber soles are best for grass, dirt and concrete. If you happen upon some gravel, don't be afraid to take your shoes off, as this will better cushion your footfalls.
 In the military this is known as a battle buddy and they can provide support if needed. Be careful of who you choose though. Pick someone trustworthy and stealthy.
 Forget all aspects of being stealthy, just flat out haul ass. Find a safe hiding spot and be completely still. But be aware running is not always the right choice, like if it's from a security guard or police officer.
 Like if you're caught inside a building: It would be relatively stupid to run as it is easy to be spotted and heard. You'll get into even more trouble if you run, so it's not always the best or only choice. Lying isn't the best way to go either, so don't make a hasty excuse.
 Tall grass or foliage, most of the time, people won't bother tramping through waist high grass. Trees, for obvious reasons. Never hide in someone's yard unless it's an absolute necessity.
 Basic parkour and free running skills are essential. I would suggest learning all the vaults, wall kicks, muscle ups and hangs.
 Concealed weapons will get you in even worse trouble if you're caught. And never use the weapon on a human being: This is a crime and will get you arrested.
 They have padding on the palms which will protect your hands. Wear shoes with just one piece of rubber on the bottoms. Try to avoid shoes with designs cut into the rubber on the bottom.
 If in a forest setting, wear greens and browns. If in an urban setting, wear clothes that don't stand out.
 Know when to move and when not to. If you've played "Call of Duty 4" think of the Chernobyl level, all hilled up.
 Don't hurt someone, rob someplace or trespass on the property of others. Of course sneaking around isn't exactly pro-law, but be sane and use common sense.

