 Look at your neighborhood restaurants, bars, or pubs as a venue if you’re looking for a place that can take care of your drink and food needs. Most bars and pubs can arrange for appetizers if you’re not wanting a sit-down dinner.You can also have a more formal seating arrangement for a dinner or one that promotes mingling for appetizers.;
, If you want one-stop shopping where you can find in-house catering, bartenders, and waitstaff, go for a venue that’s known for receptions. Check out your local country clubs or hotels as they can often provide these services in a banquet room. This will take the stress out of your special day., This might be a great option for you if you’re looking for a more budget-friendly venue. Or if you’re the homebody sort, this would be a good venue in which to feel comfortable.


If you don’t have a large home, no problem! Throw an open house party over the course of a day or evening so your guests can come in and out as they please.Utilize any large, open spaces in your home, such as a big backyard. You can always move some extra furniture to another room to make your home more spacious for your guests.
Throw up some fun decorations to make your home more festive for the occasion. Bunting and garland make for simple and easy decorations. You could even string up photos of you as a couple to add to the mood., Look for an outdoors venue if you’d like to have lots of space in a more relaxed setting. Outdoors parties can make for great fun barbecuing on the grill, playing croquet or bocce ball, or just kicking back and relaxing on a picnic blanket.You can look to see if your local park has shelters or see if a friend’s backyard is available.
Jazz up the outdoors space with tea lights or twinkle lights.
 Don’t be afraid to think outside the box and look something that’ll reflect your personality. Scope out a beach setting, boat, bowling alley, vineyard, or a rooftop for a memorable party your guests will be sure to never forget., Determine how much money you want to spend on the venue, and engagement party as a whole, as this will help you know what you can or cannot afford. Other monetary commitments you’ve made for the wedding may determine how much you want to spend on the engagement party.


The price of an engagement party will range significantly depending on your guest numbers, venue, and food and drink you offer. For an average engagement party, however, you can plan on spending about $15-25/per person.You may not want to throw an extremely lavish engagement party if it means skimping on the wedding and honeymoon!

, Knowing how many people you’d like to invite to your party will help you know how small or large of a venue you require.


Want to invite loads of people? Etiquette nowadays allows you to invite people you might not invite to the wedding. So long as you can find a venue large enough, the sky’s the limit!Some venues will require a minimum amount of guests so this is good to know before beginning your search.
 Pull out those calendars and find a date that will work best for the engagement party as this will also help you determine which venues are available. If you simply must have a certain venue, you should arrange your date around their openings.


Engagement parties are typically thrown within a few months of the proposal before things get hectic with wedding planning.Keep in mind that you’ll want to invite guests about a month before the party, so don’t drag your feet for too long before booking a venue!, If you’re hosting an engagement party on behalf of the bride and groom, be sure to ask them what venue they’d like since it’s their party.Be conscious of financial costs of venues when you’re not the one in charge of throwing and paying for the party. If the couple is providing financial backing, but not hosting, the host should be aware of their budget. Likewise, if a couple asks someone to host a party for them they should be aware of the financial burden they are asking the host to shoulder.Be sure to also run other logistics by the couple, such as the guest list and food options.
 If you decide to have a themed engagement party, this will help you decide what kind of venue you’ll want for the party. You could do anything from an ocean theme at a beach to a simple vintage party in an old warehouse.If you’re going for for a backyard theme, have the party at someone’s house or at a park where you can enjoy outdoor games and grilling.
If it’s a more fancy affair, you may choose to book a formal garden at an estate.Take advantage of seasonal themes. For example, a clambake on the beach might be great for the summer or a rustic ski lodge might be perfect for the winter., The type of decorations you want will determine what kind of venue you book. Some venues will allow you to bring in your own decorations and others will have a staff that will decorate the space for you. Decide how much you want to be a part of the process before looking for venues.Your decorations for your engagement party don’t have to match your wedding theme.
 Do you like to get your guests moving around? Some engagement parties might include games. If you want something like a scavenger hunt or lawn games, you’ll need to have a venue that has enough space for these activities.If you want to have yard games, for example, make sure your venue has an outdoors space.
 Your style of party will determine your food and drink needs. You’ll want to make sure your venue can accommodate those. If you’re into making your own food, you should consider making your venue a private home. If you don’t want to be bothered with figuring out food and drink, make sure your venue accommodates caterers.Some venues, for example, may not allow for alcohol.

