 Your cat won’t be happy if it can’t move around very easily. Therefore, you should observe your cat as it moves through your home and eliminate any objects that seem to get in its way. Change your cat’s litter box if the sides are high and your cat begins going to the bathroom elsewhere.Nothing makes a cat happier than having access to a clean place to go to the bathroom. Purchase absorbent pee pads, if necessary.
 You can make your cat super happy if you provide it with a warm and soft sleeping place. Look to see if your cat has any favorite sleeping places and place a clean blanket there for it to sleep on. Since old cats don’t have as much mobility, you can also make your cat happy by providing it with a ramp, step, or ladder so they can access their preferred sleeping spot., Old cats will be happy if you keep your house warm. Identify where your cat likes to hang out and try to keep this space warm and free of drafts. Move your cat’s bed to a space that is easy for you to keep warm, if necessary. For example, you could place your cat’s bed next to a radiator and see if they’re happy there., Your old cat might have trouble bending down to eat from its food bowl and no cat will be happy if it can’t eat. It’s a good idea to place your cat’s food bowl on a raised platform to help it. Buy a specifically designed raised feeder or simply place the bowl on something that elevates it. The benefit of buying a raised feeder is that the bowl won’t slip or fall off the platform as your cat eats from it., Cats love to roam at night but older cats often have eyesight problems so providing your cat with a light will be very helpful for making it happy. Keep a light on overnight or install a nightlight in areas where your cat might need to get to. For example, keep a light on near the litter box or where you keep your cat’s food., Keep your old cat happy by making sure your home is as quiet and calm as possible. Don’t introduce a new pet into the environment. A new pet may make your cat nervous or feel neglected, especially since you’ll likely need to spend a lot of time helping your new pet get adjusted.This won’t make your cat very happy.

