 The robot should be done in pace with the music, so music with distinct beats, such as Electro-Funk, is perfect for this dance. But there are other popular songs that aren't necessarily suited for this dance, but have been used to perform the Robot before. Once you've chosen your song, you can play it as you learn the basics, so you get used to dancing to the rhythm of the song. Try one of these or find your own:









Styx's "Mr. Roboto"
Jackson 5's "Dancing Machine"
Michael Jackson's "Billie Jean"
Timbaland's "Bounce"
Daft Punk's "Around the World"
Kraftwerk's "The Robots"
Jonathan Coulton/GLaDOS "Still Alive"
Bender & The Robot Devil "Robot Hell Song";
, Work on lifting your shoulders up, and sinking them down abruptly. You will do a more subtle version of this move as you move up and down or left to right, so get used to the feeling of lifting your shoulders and then lowering them below their natural positions -- like an exaggerated shrug.
 To master this trick, just move your body in one direction, abruptly stop, jerking your body into that position -- this is called "freeze busting" your body into a new pose. This is when jerking your shoulders downward will come in handy. Then, move in another direction and repeat this motion: move, jerk your body to a stop, and then move in another direction and do it again.









Stop and start your body naturally to the beat of the music. If the song is a bit slower, then you should stop and start less often.
 Now, practice the stop and start again, but when you stop, hold the position for a bit longer -- up to two or three seconds, depending on the beat of the music. You should not only freeze your body, but also freeze the expression on your face.
 The robot's face should look vacant and empty -- robots don't show emotion. However, you can try looking a bit crazed or bewildered, like you're surprised or have been programmed to move around and do the dance. Pretend you were sleeping and someone suddenly threw you onto the dance floor. Just don't smile or nod at the crowd, or that will break character.








