 First you need to find out whether you do actually have a problem. Using some is okay, but you need to know when too much is too much. Do you tend to end all of your sentences with one? Post emoticons in a conversation without any words attached to them? Greet everybody with a smiling face? Think about it. Ask people you often talk to or instant message whether they think it is too much, or whether it annoys them. If you talk a lot in a chatroom, they may have statistics you can look at. Over 50 percent of your lines containing an emoticon is a good benchmark for realising when to start cutting down.;
, Do you really need to convey an emotion with everything you type? Is it just becoming a habit to include them? Try to only use them when you really mean them, and make yourself clearer in the text that you do write.
 Is something confusing you? Use a question mark. Do you find something extremely surprising? Try using an exclamation point. There are a myriad of ways in which you can convey a greater amount of meaning using your keyboard, without having to resort to using an emoticon per sentence.
 Do you really need the whole range? To begin with, try only using one from your vast array, for example, using a :) every now and again when something actually made you smile. This will help you start to cut down on your overuse. It will also help your readers know when you really mean what you're expressing through an emoticon.
 Try to keep them for when you are speaking one-on-one with somebody you know well, as when you post too many in a public place there will probably be some who are okay with it, and some who'd rather you didn't. An emoticon or two is okay, but it can also make it harder to read what you and indeed other people are saying.
 This will automatically cut down on the percentage of what you write that is made up of emoticons and will also help you express yourself better. Contrary to the popular saying that "a picture is worth a thousand words", you will actually be more explanatory and expressive by forgoing the :D and opting for "I had an awesome day, thanks!" instead. In addition, stating your feelings will make you appear both more mature and verbose., Is using one really appropriate in this instance? If someone tells you some bad news, a few well thought-out words of condolence and support can go a much longer way than a simple :( Likewise, it's probably best to avoid emoticons when delivering bad news yourself, and if you ever say something mean or rude, just because you used a smiley with it does not make it okay., Using a few emoticons is definitely okay in a text, forum or chatroom environment, it's only when you use too many that it becomes a problem. Just keep an eye on how many you are using and make sure that you communicate effectively and can be understood.

