 Before your orthodontist gets started, ask if you can have a couple of minutes alone in the room to calm yourself down. While the orthodontist is gone, take a few minutes to do some deep breathing. Deep breathing can help calm your nerves.Close your eyes. Breathe in through your nose, counting to four in your head. Hold your breath for four counts. Breathe out through your mouth, counting to four in your head again. As you breathe in and out, focus only on your breathing, trying to block everything else. Keep doing this exercise as long as you need., For this technique, keep your eyes closed. Try to imagine you are someplace peaceful. Where you pick is up to you, as it only matters if you find it peaceful. You could pick a beach or a mountaintop, for instance.Try to think about all the sensations of that place. Think about what you would hear, and how it would feel on your skin. What would smell like? Taste like? Think about what you would see, adding as many details as possible. Stay in that place as much as possible while the orthodontist is working on you., If you're really nervous, have someone you trust come with you. Just holding that person's hand while your dentist is working on your braces can calm you down.Make sure to clear it with your orthodontist first, as not every orthodontist likes to have extra people back in the exam rooms.
 If you continue to play up your anxiety, you're turning it into it's own monster. Anxiety is an emotion, just like sadness or anger. Accept that what you're feeling is okay, and that it will soon pass., Hopefully, you've talked to your orthodontist about what's going to happen. Ask yourself now what you're worried about. Is it realistic? What's the worst that could happen? Try to come up with solutions for your realistic worries and to talk yourself out of non-realistic worries. For instance, you may be in a little of pain for a while, which is a realistic worry, but your orthodontist will try to minimize it. If something seems out of the realm of possibility, tell yourself that it is not realistic, and you won't worry about it.