 On the original NES game, and in most remakes, the controls are A to jump, B or Y to run or shoot a fireball, and the direction pad to move, Start to pause, and Select to switch between Mario and Luigi in the overworld (if the 2 player mode is used). To butt bounce, press A, then, while in the air, press the down button. To jump on walls, press A, then, while on the wall, press the left or right button to jump walls. To carry an item, like a turtle shell or trampoline, press Y and release to let go.;
, Often, this is the only way to defeat them. Koopas (the turtle-like creatures) and Buzzy Beetles will turn into a shell when jumped on. Hitting the shell will send it gliding. You will get extra points if it hits other enemies. Goombas can be defeated when stepped on, but you'll have to butt bounce if you have mini Mario. You can shoot fire at most enemies as well (and get a coin as a reward). However, shooting fire at Dry Bones has no effect. Step on Dry Bones to stun him for a short while.
 Sometimes, it is impossible to jump onto something without getting a fast start on your jump. Before jumping, run up to the object with B or Y on the Direction Pad.
 The levels in Super Mario have loads of blocks. Some blocks have question marks, which either have a coin, a red mushroom, a green 1UP mushroom, or a fire flower. A red mushroom makes you grow into Super Mario, and a fire flower lets you shoot fireballs at enemies, Coins are worth 200 points, and collecting 100 will give you a free 1UP, as will a green mushroom. Make sure to hit regular blocks also. Many contain nothing, but some have items or even several coins in them. Invisible blocks also exist, though they can be difficult to find. Some blocks have a button. Press down on it and a change will be set, such as blocks changing to coins or a tube. Be fast!


Some blocks have a vine to climb. So be careful which direction you choose to hit a block; it may be a vine leading to a secret pipe.
 A test for a pipe that leads to the underground, or underwater levels, is to simply press the down direction on the Direction Pad while on top of a pipe. Going underground will often yield several coins and a shortcut. Another type of shortcut is the warp zone, which can advance you several levels (only for SMB speedrunners)

, Unless absolutely necessary, never stop running. Remember, you have a time limit to finish the level, and the faster you get through the better your score will be.

