 If it is a nice sunny day, especially one where the sun shines into the room, leave the curtains open for some natural light and heat.The natural light will be good for your baby, and cost you less money than running various heating appliances.


If there are tree branches in front of your windows, you can consider trimming the branches to let more light into the room. Just make sure the trees are on your property, and you aren’t cutting down someone else’s branches.;
, The temperature in your baby’s room should be warm enough for a lightly clothed adult, around 70 to 72 degrees. This will probably be a little bit higher than you have it around the rest of your house, which is okay.Having a thermostat in the baby's room is a good option because it will help to regulate the temperature in the room, and prevent it from getting too warm.
 If you need some heat quickly, say the room is really cold, you can consider using a space heater. If you do use a space heater in the room, make sure it is at least 3 feet away from anything that could burn, and that you turn it off when you leave the room or the baby is sleeping.Make sure that your baby doesn’t get near the heater, as it can burn skin very easily.
 Thermal, or insulating, curtains are another good way to keep warm air in your baby’s room. Attach the curtains as close as you can the windows, and let them fall onto the windowsill, or even the floor. Make sure you close them at night to prevent heat from escaping through the window., Leaky windows will let heat escape and cold air in, making your baby’s room colder than it needs to be. Plus, you’ll be spending extra money on heating as you try to keep the temperature up. Attach weather stripping, caulk, or other sealants to your windows to keep warm air in the room, and drafts out.If possible, you should also replace old, drafty windows with new, sealed ones.
 Once you have some way of heating the room, you can help trap the heat in the room by closing the door. This will keep the baby’s room particularly warm, especially nice if you like it a little cooler in the rest of the house. You’ll also save a little money if you are using a space heater or something similar, as it won’t need to work as hard to heat the enclosed area.