 The fact of the matter is that not everybody likes team sports. This is entirely okay. It is still important, of course, for your kid to get exercise, and doing so in the context of organized athletics still provides advantages like learning commitment and developing social skills outside of the classroom.Keep working with a kid who is resistant to physical activity until you find something they are interested in trying. The important thing, from a guardian’s side, is to remain supportive and encouraging. They may wind up only being interested in skateboarding or bowling - but both of these can help them stay active, make friends, and commit to improving at something of their own volition.
 Does your kid like music? There are plenty of ways to blend this interest with fitness. Dance, figure skating, and band all offer many of the benefits kids can get from participating in sports. In truth, they’ll wind up with an additional advantage, as a love of music often stays with people their whole lives.Dance doesn’t have to be traditional. In fact, many kids may not be enthused by ballet. Hip-hop, Irish dance, or musical theater, on the other hand, may have them looking forward to every lesson.
DVDs or YouTube videos are great ways to explore different styles of dancing in particular. If the interest sticks, look for opportunities in the nearest city to add a social component to their practice and performance regimen.
 Another way to engage a kid that might not be convinced by the spectacle of team sports is to take them out into the wild. Even from a very young age, many kids simply take to the outdoors, and bringing them on hikes or canoeing trips is likely to perk more specific interests as they age.More specifically, trail running, kayaking, rock climbing, and snow sports are all increasingly popular with young people. If there’s any outdoors activities you enjoy, always invite them to join you - and offer to try something new that they’re interested in with them.
 Got an animal lover in your home? Understandably, they may not be too keen on hugging a pigskin. That said, there a plenty of sports that may resonate with kids who would rather spend time with live animals.For instance, training and playing with the family dog can lead to exercise, planning, goal-pursuit, and even socialization with other dog owners and trainers.
Equine sports are another realm of social and athletic interaction too. While these sports can be expensive to participate in, they provide an entire network of friends and competitors for many youth.

