 These conditions usually mean you must choose low-impact workouts. High-impact exercise with these conditions will likely cause further damage and chronic pain.


In general, the older you are, the more you should lean toward low-impact exercise at moderate intensity. Older tissues do not regenerate as quickly, so joint impact can lead to injury or chronic health problems. If you are older and enjoy running or team sports, make sure to reduce the intensity as you age and alter between low and high-impact exercise.;
, Although you may work up to high-impact exercise, you should condition your heart and lungs using low-impact workouts such as swimming, cycling or fast walking.
 Water exercise lowers the impact of all motion because you are suspended in water. Check for local swimming or water exercise classes at a gym or community center.


Most pools supply water belts and dumbbells, which are important tools to use with water exercise. The water belt goes around your waist and suspends you in the water, further lowering the impact of motion and keeping you afloat. You can march, jog or bicycle with your legs in the deep end to achieve moderate intensity. The dumbbells can be used for resistance training for your arms, chest, shoulders and back.
 These exercises can create an adventure out of exercise. Make sure to wear shoes with good arch supports, and aim to do at least 30 minutes of exercise where your breathing is elevated.
 These classes should be taken regularly for best results. Avoid jumping motions, if they are included in the routine.
 This is a type of interval-based exercise that uses isometric exercises, weight machines and other exercise aids to improve strength. When done in succession for at least 30 minutes, it can raise your breathing and heart rate and be considered a cardiovascular low-impact workout.
 In general, impact refers to cardiovascular exercise, so strength-training or isometric exercises are usually considered no-impact exercise. The following exercises have little to no impact on your joints and can help to strengthen bones:


Yoga in most of its forms does not have an impact on your joints. However, it can increase balance and muscle tone as it relaxes you and stretches your muscles. Some types of yoga, such as flow yoga sometimes include jumps, which should be modified for low-impact to slow, steady movements.
Pilates uses your own body weight to firm and tone the core muscles of your body. This will help you to keep good form when you are doing cardiovascular exercises. Most pilates videos, classes and the movements themselves can be modified based on your health conditions and strength.
Light weight-lifting is a great way to increase muscle tone as you age. Make an appointment with a personal trainer to get advice about what weights and motions are appropriate for your fitness level.

