 To use an herb as a tea, boil water. Add either 1 teaspoon of loose, dried herb, 1 tablespoon of fresh herb or a tea bag to a cup of boiled water and let it steep for five to ten minutes.


Strain if the tea if you used loose herbs and flavor it with honey or lemon if you like.
 Ask your pharmacist to recommend a reputable brand of supplements; the supplement industry is not regulated, meaning there is no guarantee you are getting the advertised product. Your pharmacist may know which companies are trustworthy. You should also look for verifiable contact information for the company and look for any seals of approval from the Natural Products Association (NPA), Consumer Labs or the US Pharmacopeia (USP). The manufacturer should follow Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP).Always follow the manufacturer's instructions when taking supplements. You should also inform your doctor of any supplements you're taking.
Buy only fresh supplements (check the expiration date).
 Valerian is a root that has the properties of a mild sedative, helping you fall asleep faster and more easily. Valerian has been used as a sleep aid for thousands of years, although it should not be given to children under 3 years old.You may want to add honey, cinnamon, cloves, or lemon to valerian tea to improve the flavor.
Valerian root may interact with prescription medications like antidepressants and antianxiety medications.
 Passionflower is used to reduce anxiety and can also lower blood pressure. If you take blood pressure medications, talk to your doctor before supplementing. Passionflower has a light, pleasant taste, but you can flavor it with honey and lemon if you're making a tea.Do not use passionflower if you're pregnant. It may induce uterine contractions.Since passionflower hasn't been studied in children, talk with a qualified healthcare professional to determine a safe dose to give your child.
 Chamomile has traditionally been used to help induce sleep, although clinical studies are needed to support this. Chamomile is used to increase calm while reducing anxiety. When purchasing chamomile, look for German (which is more widely available) or Roman.Chamomile is safe for children, but dilute the tea with warm water (use ½ cup of tea and add ½ cup of water).
Chamomile can interact with a number of prescription medications, so talk to a knowledgeable healthcare professional (your doctor or pharmacist) before using it.
 Lemon balm can also reduce anxiety and improve sleep quality, but should not be used by anyone with an overactive thyroid or anyone who is pregnant.Lemon balm has Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) status in the US and can be used with children older than 3 years old, but dilute the tea with warm water (use ½ cup of tea and add ½ cup of water).


Lemon balm may interact with certain medications for thyroidism, HIV, and sleep issues like anxiety or insomnia. Talk with your doctor before supplementing., Take 1 to 3 mg of melatonin one hour before bed. This "sleep hormone" can regulate your sleep cycles. Avoid taking melatonin every night, unless your doctor advises it. You can also try to increase the amount of melatonin in your system by drinking a glass of tart cherry juice.Melatonin may interact with prescription medications and should not be taken when pregnant or when nursing. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before use.
 This chemical is used by your body to make a neurotransmitter, serotonin. Serotonin is known to regulate mood and behavior, which may improve your sleep. Take 50 to 100 mg of 5-HTP every night before bed for six to 12 weeks, unless your doctor recommends otherwise.5-HTP is not recommended for pregnant or nursing women.

