 You will need green craft paint and a flat, hard surface of some sort, such as heavy paper or a glass window pane.


Choose a water-soluble paint, especially if you plan to make these footprints on a window or other surface you eventually want to clean.






Tempera paint works best. For easier clean up, mix a few drops of liquid dish soap into the paint before applying it.You will also need a paintbrush to apply the paint with or a shallow dish to pour the paint into.






To limit the potential mess, lay newspaper or a plastic drop cloth down over your working surface.





;
, Curl your fingers into the palm of your hand, making sure that the tip of your pinky finger touches the center horizontal line of your palm.


Your hands should be clean before you start this project.
 Use your free hand to coat your paintbrush in green paint. Brush the entire pinky side of your fist, from the tip of your pinky finger to the base of your wrist.


Alternatively, you can pour the paint into a shallow dish and lightly dunk the pinky side of your fist into the paint. Hold your hand over the dish for a few seconds to allow excess paint to drip off.
 Press the paint-covered side of your fist flat onto your painting surface.Press straight down using firm pressure and lift your hand straight up. Do not wiggle or twist your hand since doing so may distort the shape of the leprechaun footprint.






The resulting shape will act as the base of one footprint.
 Use your paintbrush to apply a little green paint to your pinky finger. You only need enough to cover the tip.


Alternatively, you could also pour the paint into a small dish and dip your pinky directly into it. Let the excess paint drip off for a few seconds before proceeding.
 Press five small dots about the wide part of your green base print. The dots should curve along the upper edge of the base print and stand apart at even intervals from one side to another.

Note that the first print should be positioned over the short side of the base. This will be the "big toe," and it should be the biggest of the five dots.






The remaining dots should get progressively smaller until you reach the pinky toe.
 Follow the same procedure with your opposite hand to create a footprint for the opposite foot.


Apply green paint to the side of a fist made with your opposite hand.






Press this fist onto the painting surface near the first print.






Use your pinky finger to paint five toes along the top of this second print.
 Let the paint dry before using the painted surface.


Note that you should let the paint dry in between sets of footprints to avoid smearing one set while you make another. If you do not have the time to wait, make sure that you start at the top of your painting surface and work your way down or backwards so that you do not have to reach over the existing footprints to create new ones.

