 Here are the ingredients you'll need for a basic hair mask:


2 eggs
1 tsp cinnamon
1 tsp mustard
2 tbsp of an oil of your choice (such as coconut oil, jojoba oil, grapeseed oil, castor oil, agave oil, or olive oil -- or you could mix all of them!)

Of course, you could use other ingredients, too! Milk, lemon (though this could lighten your hair), honey, and apple cider vinegar are four common additions that are just as effective. And if you don't like the smell of mustard, replace it!
Olive is oil is great for hair strength and shine. Milk and coconut oil will make it soft and luxurious. Honey will add a glow and apple cider vinegar will bring it back to life. The healthier your hair is, the faster it will grow.
 Be sure all of the egg has been mixed in thoroughly, as that will take the longest to incorporate. If you have super long hair, you may want to use another egg or some more oil to make your mix go further.
 Don't be afraid to get your fingers messy! The more you really get in there, the better your results will be. You want every strand saturated by your magical concoction.


Coat your hair from the top, then flip your hair over and coat from the bottom. Part your hair in several different ways before you even think about being done. And make sure to get around your ears!

, Make sure to coat your entire scalp on through to your ends. However, the most important part is your scalp, as that is where the root is stimulated to grow. Once you think you're done, go at it for another few minutes.
 A bun, shower cap, pig tails or a ponytail will do, but since you'll probably be tempted to touch it, a shower cap is your best bet. You could also wrap it in a thin towel, too. Go do some yoga while you're watching TV, and come back when the episode is finished.
 It’s very important to rinse with cold water, since washing eggs out of your hair with hot water will cause them to fry in your hair. Eggs are some sticky business, so wash your hair as normal -- but wash it well. Make darn sure that all the sticky goodness is out, since you don't want to smell like a jar of mayonnaise later on in the day.


Shampoo and condition as usual, if you'd like. The drier your hair is normally, the less likely it is that your hair will need shampooing. You know your hair -- will the mask make it at all greasy? If you're prone to quick oil build-up, use shampoo. If not, you can skip it.
 You can use a deep-treatment mask like this up to once a week, if you'd like. You'll see a difference in no time!

