 Exercise releases endorphins – biological compounds that can improve your mood, relieve stress, and give you an emotional boost. Moving about can seem a chore when you have arthritis, but could should engage in exercise anyway. Talk with your doctor before beginning any exercise regimen.For instance, you could try weight training. Choose a pair of light hand weights and lift them to your chin at least 12 times. Rest briefly and repeat two more times. If you find you are not tired after lifting this mass, increase the weight slightly in two-pound increments. Lift in this way every other day.Walk for about 15 minutes each day. As your stamina increases, increase the time you spend walking in 5 minute increments.
You might experience some pain when you first start exercising, but it will dissipate in the short term as you continue your workout and in the long term as you build strength.
If you have serious pain – from moderate to severe – before working out, engage in a lighter workout, or try working out another area. For instance, if your arthritis is in your knees, just try lifting weights, or walking for five minutes instead of 15.
Stop exercising immediately if you have moderate or severe pain during your workout., If you don’t get enough sleep, you are more likely to experience depression and anxiety. Sleeping enough can not only improve your mood and keep you positive, but it can also reduce your arthritis symptoms. Adopt a regular bedtime and wakeup time.Aim for about eight hours of sleep each night.
Don’t eat or look at any LCD screens within three hours of your bedtime.
Make your room as dark as possible when sleeping. Close your blinds and turn the lights off.
Regulate the temperature and try to keep it between 60 to 67 degrees Fahrenheit. This is the optimal temperature range for sleep.Keep your phone off or far away from you so that you aren’t awakened by its sounds during the night.
 Some foods will exacerbate your arthritis, while others will relieve your arthritis symptoms. Try keeping a food journal to keep track of what foods seem to make your arthritis worse and what foods agree with you. Making positive decisions about your meals is empowering and will improve your attitude.Fish, soy (either tofu or edamame), olive oil, broccoli, green tea, and cherries are among the best foods for reducing arthritic inflammation.On the other hand, you should avoid processed foods loaded with sugar, salt, and unhealthy fats. Steer clear of potato chips, sweet candies, soda, red meat, cookies, and donuts. Alcohol, too, can cause inflammation and should be avoided.
 Many people use their arthritis or other medical conditions to conduct outreach and draw attention to their situation. You could, for instance, start an arthritis support group in your hometown, or create a website where people with arthritis can congregate and talk about their experiences. Using your arthritis as an inspiration to do something positive for others can help buoy your mood.