 Know what you can reasonably spend before you start looking for sunglasses. There are frames and lenses to fit all price ranges, so this will help you to stay realistic. For example, if you can afford to spend $150 on cycling glasses, this is a realistic possibility with a bit of research., Many online magazines and blogs provide lengthy descriptions and lists of the best sports sunglasses currently available. Read personal product reviews as well on retail sites to see what consumers think about particular pairs. This research will also give a good idea as to pricing.If you are shopping for sunglasses for a particular sport, such as cycling, you may want to search “cycling sunglasses reviews” for the best results.
 If you see a fellow athlete with a nifty pair of sunglasses, ask them where they purchased their pair. Talk with your sports peers and fellow competitors about the pros and cons of various sunglasses options. You will soon find that a few particular brands/types stand out for your particular sport.


For example, you might say, “I really like your sunglasses. Where did you get them? How do they work for you?”

, If you choose to buy in-person, you can go to a nicer eyewear store and make an appointment with a specialist. They will listen to your unique eyewear needs and help to direct you to particular products. They make also tell you about various coatings that are particularly useful in sporting environments.


Once you have the sunglasses on, move your head around to see how they fit. Try to simulate the action and movements of your sport. For example, if you are a soccer player, you may be looking up and down a great deal. Make sure the glasses stay snug throughout this process.
Many eyeglass shops, especially optometry locations are able to adjust your glasses, and the optician can make adjustments to ensure that your glasses are snug and stay on your face.
 Some retailers offer warranties on higher cost pairs of sunglasses. If you play a sport where your glasses may sustain some damage, you might want to consider purchasing a warranty as an investment.

