


This might sound routine, but it’s essential. As a college student, you’re constantly busy and there’s no way you could feasibly remember all of the things you’re responsible for. Writing things down helps you commit to the item, and scheduling a block of time to complete the activity furthers this commitment.
Use highlighters, get a fun pen, grab some sticky notes. Do anything that makes keeping a calendar fun and once you start, you won’t be able to live without it.



Getting sleep is essential as a college student. Yes, it’s a lot of fun to stay up late, but you’ll regret it the next morning when you can’t peel yourself out of bed for your 8am alarm. Try to go to bed at a reasonable time. It might take a bit to adjust your internal clock, but once you do, you can be on a healthy schedule that leaves you refreshed in the morning and lasts you through the day so you don’t have to take three hour naps as soon as class is out.
To help you start relaxing earlier, try to stop using your electronics by nine or ten at night. The stimulus from a bright screen keeps you restless and hyper. Removing yourself from these stimulants can help you fall asleep faster.



Setting goals is great. But not if they’re unattainable. Nothing good comes of trying to take 18 credits for four years straight or being apart of every club on campus. Figure out what you really feel is feasible while you’re in college. Guess what? You can’t have a full time job and be a full time student. It’s impossible, so don’t stress about goals like that. It’s not happening.
As you think of your goals for your four years in high school, try to include having fun. You have time for fun even if you think you don’t think you do. And if you don’t have fun, if you don’t take a break, then you won’t succeed. Working yourself ragged all the time isn’t healthy. Try to break up the wear and tear of academic life up with some fun activities.
Treat yourself to dinner out, see a movie, go to a party, take a weekend vacation to a neighboring town.
Whatever having fun looks like to you, do it!

