 Open a browser, type in https://app.box.com/ on the address bar, and hit Enter.;
, Use your Box account username and password to log in. When you’ve input the information, click the “Log-in” button to continue.
 From the main page, notice the header menu at the top. Locate the third icon from the left with the folder icon. Click on this to go to the All Files page. This is your main page for all your Box folders and files.
 Create a new personal folder on your main page for easy access. Do this by clicking on the “New” button found on the All Files page header menu, and select “New Folder” from the pop-up.
 In the Create New Folder window, type in the folder name in the appropriate field. Use something like “! My Favorites” or “! My Bookmarks.”


Make this folder private by ticking on “Keep private for now.”
Click on the “Okay” button when done.
Your new folder will be created on the All Files page, located at the top most part for easier access.
 Go back to the All Files page to see the new folder you’ve just created. This folder will be used to store all your Box Bookmarks.
 Go to the file or the folder that you use frequently, which you would like to bookmark and store.
 Once you’ve found it, hover over it to see a link icon with a “Share” text towards the right side of the file or the folder. Click on this link icon or “Share” text. A share link will be created and displayed right below the file or the folder.
 Highlight the share link and copy the whole thing. You can press Ctrl + C from your keyboard to do so. The share link will be copied to your clipboard.
 Notice the header menu at the top of each page. Locate the third icon from the left with the folder icon. Click on this to go to the All Files page. This is your main page for all your Box folders and files.
 From step 4 of part 2, you created a Box Bookmarks folder. This is most likely the first folder on the All Files page. Click on it to enter the folder.
 Once inside the Bookmarks folder, click the “New” button found on the page header menu, and select “New Bookmark” from the pop-up. A small pop-up window will appear with the title “New Bookmark.” Paste the share link you’ve copied from step 3 of part 3 on the first field for the “Address of page/content.”

, This step is optional, but it is a good idea to do especially if you will be having several bookmarks. Type in the name and description of the link you’ve just pasted. This will be the name of the bookmark.


Click the “Okay” button when you’re done.
 From the Bookmarks folder, you can see the new bookmark created with the corresponding name and description you’ve put from step 6. The actual share link is also visible.
 Repeat parts 3 and 4 as necessary to create more bookmarks for your files and folders.
 From the main page, notice the header menu at the top. Locate the third icon from the left with the folder icon. Click on this to go to the All Files page. This is your main page for all your Box folders and files.
 From step 4 of part 2, you created a Box Bookmarks folder. This is most likely the first folder on the All Files page. Click on it to enter the folder.
 View all the bookmarks you’ve created from part 4. These represent your favorite or most-frequented content from your Box account. From here you can easily navigate through your files and folders without the need to actually dig through all the files and sub-folders.
 If you’d like to jump to the actual file or folder, just click on the bookmark. You will be redirected to the actual file or folder within your Box account.