 Putting something cold on the bruise will reduce swelling and help it heal more quickly. Do this as soon as possible, and you can stop the bruise from spreading so far.


Fill a resealable plastic bag with ice chips, or find a bag of frozen vegetables like corn or peas. Wrap the bag in a towel or T-shirt, and lay it over the bruise.
Flexible gel-filled ice packs, specifically designed for injuries, are available from sports shops. Athletes usually keep a few on-hand to fight bruises.
Put ice on the area for 15 minutes out of every hour. Over-chilling the skin around the bruise can lead to frostbite.
;
, Reduce blood flow to the area with gravity's help. Lifting the bruised area so that it's above your heart will prevent blood from pooling in the bruised area, and reduce discoloration.


For instance, if the bruise is on your leg, settle onto the couch and rest your leg on top of a few pillows. If your leg is even a few inches above your heart, you're good.
If your arm is bruised, try to prop it up on an armrest or a few pillows, so that it's at heart-level or above.
If your torso is bruised, you might be out of luck. Focus on icing the area instead.
 If the bruise is particularly painful, take an over-the-counter painkiller for relief. Read the label for the recommended dose.


Avoid aspirin, which is a blood-thinner and could make your bruise worse.
 Working your muscles increases blood flow to that area, and increased blood flow is not what you want to be doing to a bruise. Call it a day and cool your jets, both to prevent further injury and give your bruise a chance to heal.


Hang out on the couch. Watch a movie, play a game, read a book — just do something that doesn't require much physical activity.
Head to bed early. Your body needs sleep to repair itself, so hit the hay as soon as you feel tired.
 Most bruises aren't indicative of a serious medical condition, and can be treated safely at home. However, consider calling a doctor if any of the following apply to you:


You're bruising without any significant bumps, falls or other injuries.
You have a high fever, or you can see signs of infection around the bruise (redness, pus or other drainage).
If you feel extreme pressure around the bruise, which is large, call a doctor immediately. A significant decrease in blood an oxygen supply to one area is known as compartment syndrome, and can be life-threatening.

