 Microwave frozen spinach for two minutes at 50% power. Break the spinach apart into smaller pieces. Microwave it again, at 50% power, checking and stirring it whenever a minute passes by, until it’s defrosted.Alternately, you can use one packed cup of fresh baby spinach, washed and finely chopped with the stems removed.;
, Wrap the spinach in a clean kitchen towel. Squeeze and wring the towel to remove the liquid.Another option is to press the wet spinach into a sieve over the sink., Make sure your hands are clean and free of jewelry. Place the ground meat in the bowl first, and press it down in the middle to form a well. In the well, put the spinach, garlic, egg, milk, bread crumbs, Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper, and all but three tablespoons of the chopped onion.Add a small dash of hot sauce, if desired.Since you’re working with you’re hands, wash them well first, with soap and a nail brush. If you wear any rings, remove them and set them aside somewhere safe (away from the sink drain).You may want to crack the egg into a separate bowl before adding it, to ensure that no egg shell gets into the meat mixture.
 Preheat the oven to 400°F (204°C). Mix the meat mixture well. Make twelve large meatballs, approximately 1½” each., Place the meatballs on a nonstick cookie sheet or shallow baking pan. Drizzle extra-virgin olive oil over the meatballs.Cook the meatballs for twenty to twenty-eight minutes, until they are no longer pink., Add butter and a drizzle of extra-virgin olive oil to a small sauce pot over medium heat. Allow the butter to melt.Pour in the mushrooms and/or chopped onion. Cook until the vegetables are tender, about two minutes., Whisk in the flour, and cook for one minute. Whisk in chicken stock and milk. Bring the mixture to a boil., Once the liquid is boiling, stir in shredded cheese. Sprinkle in nutmeg, salt and pepper. Reduce heat to the lowest setting.Simmer the sauce, uncovered, for about eight to ten minutes.The sauce should be somewhat thickened once done.
 Add the meatballs to the sauce and heat them through.Alternately, you can keep the meatballs and sauce separate. Drizzle sauce over the meatballs to serve.For example, put three meatballs topped with sauce on each dinner plate. Add a garnish of parsley on top, if desired.
 Cut a medium spaghetti squash in half lengthwise. Remove the seeds. Cook the squash uncovered in the microwave, on high, for about fifteen to eighteen minutes. Separate it into strands, using a fork, once the squash is cool enough to touch.Make sure to use a microwave-safe plate.
The squash is ready once it’s tender.
 Wash fresh broccoli. Toss it with olive oil, salt, pepper, garlic, and red pepper flakes, to taste. Roast for ten to fifteen minutes, keeping an eye on it after the ten-minute mark., Make a bed of cooked egg noodles or wild rice. Add a couple of slices of crusty bread to the side of each dish.

For example, you may want to serve the meatballs over beef stroganoff.