 Add two to three drops to the infected ear with a medicine dropper. Let the drops sit in the ear canal for five to 10 minutes and tilt your head to let them drain. This measure will help soften any crusted or hardened debris in the ear canal, which will, in turn, help wash any fungal colonies out of your ear., Turn it on to the lowest setting possible and place its end at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) from the infected ear. This method will dry any moisture present in the ear canal, which will hinder the growth of fungus.Be very careful not to burn yourself.
 Get a clean towel and soak it in warm water. Ensure that the towel is not too hot. Place the warm towel over the infected ear and wait until it cools down. The measure helps relieve pain, without having to take pain-relieving drugs. It also increases blood flow to the infected area, which leads to faster recovery., Mix both in a 1:1 ratio. With a medicine dropper, add a few drops to the infected ear. Let the drops sit in the ear for 10 minutes and tilt your head to let them drain. The mixture can be utilized every four hours for up to two weeks.


The rubbing alcohol is a drying agent, which will get rid of moisture in the ear canal causing the fungal infection. It also disinfects the skin of the ear canal. The acidity of vinegar slows the growth of the fungus, as Candida and Aspergillus prefer a "basic" environment for optimal growth.This mixture will disinfect and dry out the ear, lessening the duration of the infection., It helps the body produce collagen, a protein instrumental in making tissues like skin, cartilage, and blood vessels. Doctors recommend supplements of 500 to 1,000 mg of vitamin C per day with food.


Excellent dietary sources of vitamin include citrus fruit (oranges, limes, lemons), berries (blueberries, cranberries, strawberries, raspberries), pineapples, watermelon, papaya, broccoli, spinach, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower., Take a capsule of garlic oil, puncture it, and pour it into the infected ear. Let it sit for 10 minutes and tilt your head to drain the oil. It can be repeated daily for up to two weeks. In studies, garlic oil has been found to have antifungal effects on Aspergillus (one of two main causes of fungal ear infections).


Furthermore, garlic oil has been found to have similar or better rates of cure when compared to prescription medications used to treat fungal ear infection., If you have a fungal infection, there will be whitish or yellowish secretions from the ear. In addition to this, there will also be an overproduction of wax. All these can cause blockage in the eustachian tube. Olive oil is a perfect wax softener.


With a medicine dropper, add three drops to the infected ear. Let the drops sit in the ear canal for five to 10 minutes and tilt your head to let them drain. It will soften earwax (cerumen) and any other hardened secretions in the ear canal and facilitate its removal (much like hydrogen peroxide). Olive oil also has properties to decrease the inflammation associated with fungal ear infections. The anti-inflammatory properties of olive oil are mediated by high levels of polyphenols present in the oil.