 Tap the App Store on your iOS device to launch it.;
, Type in “Splashtop” on the search field and tap the “Search” button to begin the search.
 Locate the Splashtop 2 Remote Desktop (by Splashtop). Tap the “Install” button beside the app to download it., Locate the app on your iOS device. It’s the green icon with a splash of white paint on it. Tap to launch.
 If this is your first time to use the app, you will be asked to create a Splashtop account.


Type in your email address. Type in your password, and type in the password again to confirm it.
In order for you to use Splashtop, you have to agree to its Terms of Service. Tap on “View Terms” to view and read them then tap on “I agree” to proceed. Your account is now created.
 Enter your email and password then tap the “Log in” button. You will now be logged in to Splashtop., Visit this site from any web browser on your PC.
 Click on “Products” from the menu and select “Downloads.” Or you can visit the download page here directly.
 Select your PC platform and click the “Go” button. The setup file will start downloading.


The Streamer software is needed on your PC so that it can connect and communicate with the Splashtop app on your iOS device.
 Locate the setup file and double-click on it. The setup filename is “Splashtop_Streamer_WIN*.exe.” Let the installation be completed.
 After the installation is completed, you will be presented with a login screen. Use your Splashtop account, the one you created from Step 2 of Part 2, to login.


The same account you’re using on your iOS device should be the same one you use here. Otherwise, the remote connection won’t work.
 If not, locate it and tap on it to launch it. The list of connected computers under the same Splashtop account will be displayed on the dashboard.
 Upon successful remote connection, the app will show you an introductory window with some hints.
 The hints include the finger gestures you need to use in order to work the contents from your PC on your iOS device.
 Your PC desktop will now be mirrored and displayed on your iOS device.


You can now access your computer’s contents right from your mobile device.

