 If you try to save your child from mistakes, she will feel incapable. When she is struggling with something, let her struggle. When she creates an imperfect product, let her experience the triumph of creation. Don't dive in every time you see her about to spill something or mess up a math problem. Let her work through it on her own—and when she messes up, let her clean up.Supervising doesn't mean controlling. You can watch your child experiment without trying to fix her course.
Praise effort as well as accomplishment. You can praise your daughter for taking a risk, trying something new, or doing something she finds difficult.;
, When your daughter shows interest in something, treat her interest seriously. Offer her further opportunities to explore it. Allow her to talk about it, and ask her questions as she learns.


For instance, if your daughter likes lizards, take her to the library to check out books on lizards. Bring her to a nearby zoo to see lizards in person.
Even if she has interests that seem worrisome or unachievable to you, help her redirect them into active channels. For instance, if she wants to be a famous actress, let her sign up for acting classes and participate in community theater. When she develops a love for the art, she'll be less hung up on the payoff.
 Provide opportunities for your daughter to develop her various competencies by offering age-appropriate activities. If she has never done something, that's a reason for her to try it.You can build her sense of independence by helping her learn to take care of her own needs. For instance, you can teach her to cook and let her plan some of the family meals.
 You can help your daughter build up her self-esteem by showing her how many things she is good at. Try sitting down with your daughter and having her help you make a list of everything your daughter can do well. Then, look at the list to see how she could use these skills to help others.


For example, you might include on the list that she is good at reading. If she's willing, sign her up to tutor and help other kids practice their reading. Get her to volunteer alongside you at nearby charity or activist events.Ask for her help. When she's really little, you can get her to help in tiny ways, like handing you tools or mixing ingredients during cooking.
When she's older, ask her to take care of things and leave them in her charge. Ask for her advice and opinions as well, as listen seriously.
 Praise is an important building block for your daughter's self esteem, so make sure that you praise your daughter often. Give your daughter genuine praise on a daily basis.


Give specific recognition of her actions. Say "You kept working on that drawing until the whole page was colored in!" or "It looks like you almost got mad at your brother and then you calmed yourself down by making a joke! I'm proud of you for finding a way to calm down."
Treat her actions as choices, not as accidents of temperament or talent. Like anyone, your daughter is constantly regulating and revising her behavior. Instead of talking about how bad her temper is, talk about how many methods she is learning to recognize and moderate her temper.
Praise her effort as well as her success.
Don't put too much focus on appraising your daughter's physical appearance. Instead of praising your daughter for being popular or for having lots of admirers, praise her for her good social skills and ability to read people.
Don't make promises that aren't true. For instance, don't promise she'll succeed at something she wants. If she auditions for a musical, instead of saying "You'll definitely get that part," say "you've practiced, and your voice is strong for your age, so you have a good chance at getting that part.", Avoid self-deprecation. Don't speak to yourself in a way you don't want your child to imitate. If you make a mistake, own up to it without putting yourself down. If you're feeling pessimistic about your prospects, talk yourself through it until you're at a more realistic place.For example, if you are feeling angry with yourself because you forgot to pay an important bill, then you can say something like, "I forgot to do that and I feel angry about it. But it's not the end of the world. I will just take care of it tomorrow."

Develop self esteem if yours is low.
 Keep an eye out for beliefs your child may be developing that are irrational or self-defeating. If your daughter starts saying that she just "isn't fun and nobody likes her" or that she is "bad" at something, respond positively but firmly to redirect this belief.


If she says "I'm not fun, nobody likes me" try saying something like "You're very fun. You make us laugh, and you have fun with your cousins all the time. Remember how much fun you and your friends had playing dress-up? At school you are just settling in to a new classroom. But you have made friends before, so you can do it again."
Encourage your daughter to think of her competencies as skills she can develop, not abilities she does or does not have.
 If your daughter has low self-esteem, get her to a child or adolescent therapist. Let her meet one and decide if she likes that one or wants to try another. Explain that you're worried about her unrealistic low self-esteem, and say why you think therapy will help., Do not ignore your child as a way to punish her or get her to quiet down. Instead, respond lovingly but firmly. To build her self esteem, you must recognize her as an important presence and treat her opinions, her feelings, her struggles and her accomplishments with respect.Responsiveness has an effect as soon as your baby is born. Come to your baby when she cries. Make faces at her and laugh when she laughs. The more you respond to your child's actions and bids for attention, the more she will understand that she matters.
 It can be tempting to dismiss a child's questions, especially when they are repetitive or when the answer is complicated. It can be equally tempting to give her an answer immediately and show off your own knowledge. However, you will help her develop a greater sense of curiosity and self-esteem if you help her think through questions.


If she asks "why are books always square or rectangular?," say that’s a good question, and ask her why she thinks so. She can think of some reasons, and you can think of some reasons, and if you're really interested you can follow that up by reading about it together.
 Instead of saying "because I said so," explain why you make the rules you make. You don't want to teach her to blindly trust in your authority—you want her to seek to understand your reason so that she trusts your authority while developing her own sense of authority.


If she asks "but why do I have to go to bed and you get to stay up?" you can explain that children's bodies need more rest than adult bodies.
 Teach lessons in consent early on by teaching your daughter that her body is her own. Ask for permission before you pick her up. Ask her if she would like to hug her relatives and friends, instead of telling her to. If she says no, respect that. Never touch her in a way she does not want to be touched.


Similarly, teach her to ask before she hugs or touches other people. Say "your body is yours, and their body is theirs."
Teach her alternative ways of expressing affection, like blowing kisses, waving, and saying positive things.
Do not engage in corporal punishment. Spanking and other forms of physical force are no different from other child abuse—they are traumatic to children, and they destroy self esteem.Let her make her own decisions about hair and clothing. If she wants to cut off all her beautiful curls? It's up to her! If she wants to wear three prints at once? You can teach her about color coordination over time, but don't pressure her—let it be her decision.Have open conversations with her about consent as she grows.