 Though the fauxhawk can be styled in as few as 5 minutes by someone practiced at shaping it, by setting aside ample time you can ensure that your fauxhawk doesn't turn into an oh-no-hawk. Even if this is your first time, you should be able to complete this style in about 10 minutes.You may even want to give yourself an extra 5 minutes leeway, setting aside 15 minutes total for styling. This way, you're not in a rush, and you can take the time you need to make sure you leave the house looking your best.;
, Your hair will be easiest to style while it's still slightly damp from the shower. Additionally, washing before styling cleanses your hair of dirt, oil, and dandruff, all which can make even a stylish head of hair look unappealing.
 Hair that is naturally curly will be more resistant to the hand styling and shaping you'll be doing to form your fauxhawk. But the fauxhawk is still well within your reach! Use a flat iron or straightening products on the hair around the top of your head, leaving the hair on the sides as it is. Now you're ready for mousse!








Straightening your hair can add some time to your fauxhawk styling, especially if you're inexperienced. You may want to give yourself an extra 5 to 10 minutes so you don't run late wherever it is you're headed.
 You only need a small amount to give your hair the lift you'll need when styling your fauxhawk. Spray the mousse into the palm of one hand, rub your hands together lightly to equally distribute the mousse between your hands, and then apply it by combing your fingers through your hair.









Be sure you apply your mousse to all sides of your head. It's easy to miss the shorter hairs on the side or at the back, but missing these areas could give you an irregular look., With one hand point the blow dryer at your head from the side and orient it to face the middle of your head. While the blow dryer is running, use the fingers of your free hand to comb your hair in the direction the blow dryer is blowing - toward the middle of your head.









The hair on the side of your head does not need to be combed toward the middle of your head., Performing the same motion, hold the blow dryer in your opposite hand point it at the middle of your head from that side. Use the fingers of your free hand to comb your hair toward the middle of your head, leaving the hair on the side of your head as it is normally.
 When applying styling wax to your hair, a little goes a long way. A small dab, about the size of a pea, should be enough to create a classy fauxhawk. Rub your hands together to evenly distribute the wax, then use your fingers to tease the hair on both sides of the top of your head inward and upward to form a crest.








Always start with a small amount of styling product. You can always add more if there is a need. However, if you use too much, you'll have to wash your hair and start from scratch, or else your hair might have to spend the day with hair that looks clumpy with product.
 Apply your styling gel to one hand and then rub your hands together to spread the gel evenly between both. Comb the hair on the sides of your head forward, flattening it with your hands as you do so. Then finger comb the back of your hair so it lies flat.
 Use your fingers to tuck loose strands of hair to join the crest at the middle of your head. Then gently push the hair at the top-back of your head forward while guiding it into a more distinct crest shape.









To add texture to your fauxhawk, take small strands of hair between your pointer finger and thumb, then twist the strand upwards.