 Before you start stretching, warm up your back muscles by rolling your shoulders. Start with a set of ten forward shoulder rolls followed by ten backwards shoulder rolls.You can also do arm circles. Stretch out your arms to either side at shoulder height, and make small circles for about ten seconds. Reverse the direction of the circle, and repeat for another ten seconds.;
, Stand or sit with your back straight and your shoulders squared. Gently stretch your neck muscles by doing the following stretches. All these movements should be performed slowly and carefully, to avoid overextending or straining your muscles:

Tilt your head forward to bring your chin to your chest. Don’t attempt to bring your chin all the way to your chest if it causes you pain; just get as close as you comfortably can.
Lean your head back, lifting your chin toward the ceiling.
Looking straight ahead, tilt your head toward one shoulder, and then the other. Try to touch each shoulder with your ear.
Turn your head to look to the right, and then to the left.
Hold each position for about 20 seconds, and return to the starting position before performing the next stretch.
 For this stretch, you will need a jump rope, yoga strap, belt, or other rope. Stand or sit up straight, and hold one end of the strap in each hand. Perform the stretch as follows:Stretch your arms out in front of your body, keeping them at shoulder height, with your palms facing down. Hold your hands a little more than shoulder-width apart.
As you inhale, lift your arms above your head with your elbows straight, still holding the strap. Keep your palms facing out and your hands a little more than shoulder-width apart.
As you exhale, bring your elbows down to shoulder height and lower the strap behind your head, with your palms still facing out. At this point, your arms should be in a “goalpost” position (upper arms straight out to the sides, forearms bent up at a 90° angle). This should push your shoulders back and open up your chest.
Inhale and stretch your arms up again.
Exhale and bring your arms back to the starting position, straight out in front of you at shoulder height.
This stretch can be repeated three to five times.
 Lie down with a foam roller propped along your spine; your head, shoulders, and upper back should all be touching the roller. Your knees should be bent with your feet flat on the ground. Stretch your arms out to the side to make a “T” shape. Your arms should form a straight line with your shoulders. Hold this pose for one minute., Hold your hands behind your back, keeping your arms straight. Pull back on your shoulders with your arms. You should feel your chest open and stretch as your shoulders squeeze., Lie down on the floor, and prop a rolled towel or foam roller under your spine. Place your arms on the ground above your arm, and gently sweep them down towards your side, as if you were making snow angels on the floor. Do this for two or three minutes.If the foam roller makes it too difficult for you, you can remove it for a simpler exercise.
You can also do this exercise against a wall. Stand with your spine flat against the wall. Hold your arms above your head but pressed against the wall. Bring your arms down slowly to your side and back up again.
 Stand in a doorway with your forearms resting against the door frame in a goalpost position (elbows bent at a 90° angle with the forearms facing straight up). Position your feet so that one is slightly in front of you and the other behind you, in a striding position. Then perform the stretch:

While standing in your starting position, tense your stomach muscles and straighten your back.
Push your upper torso forward while keeping your arms and legs in their original positions. Try to hold this pose for at least 30 seconds.
Relax for a few seconds, then switch the positions of your feet and repeat the stretch.
Do a total of three sets.

