 Before getting involved in the production of your card decide what photos, graphics and wording you would like to have on your card. You might sketch it on paper. You might want to view the document cited in the sources and citations section below for some ideas.;
,,

Click on the HOME tab at the top of the screen.






Click on the word LAYOUT.






The OFFICE THEME window will open. Click on the BLANK theme.


Click on the DESIGN tab at the top of the screen.






Look to the extreme right side at the bottom of the ribbon. You will see the word BACKGROUND followed by a small arrow-like shape. Click on the shape.






A FORMAT BACKGROUND window will appear.






If you would like a plain colored background click on SOLID FILL. Look a little ways down on the screen and you will see a box saying FILL COLOR. Click on the arrow next to the word COLOR. A window of colors will appear. Select the color you would like for the background.






If you would like a rainbow colored background click on GRADIENT FILL. Click on the box next to the words PRESET COLORS. Make a color selection. You may also want to change the TYPE and or DIRECTION settings.






Close the DESIGN tab.








Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.


Click on the INSERT tab at the top of the screen.






Click on the word PICTURE.






Your picture library will be displayed. Click on the appropriate folders until you see the picture you want to include.






Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.


Click on the photo. The words PICTURE TOOLS FORMAT will appear at the top of your screen. Click on those words.






Look towards the right of the screen and the words you will see the word CROP. Click on the arrow below the word CROP.






A box will appear. Click on the word CROP.






Lines will appear along the edges of your photo Move the lines to eliminate unnecessary background.






Look at the ribbon again. You will see the words HEIGHT and WIDTH followed by numbers. Adjust these to make the photo the size you would like it to be.






Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.
 You may wish to remove the background of the photo. Depending upon how well the background contrasts with the picture this may be very easy or very difficult to do. Hair is the most difficult area to separate from the background and still have a natural look. On some photos I've decided simply not to remove the background because the hair did not look good.


Click on the words REMOVE BACKGROUND on the left side of the ribbon.
Adjust the box which appears to nearly touch the picture that you want to keep.
The purple areas will be removed.
Click on the green circle MARK AREAS TO KEEP and then click on parts of the photo that are purple that you want to keep. (Note clicking and drawing a line is better than multiple clicks.)
Click on the red circle MARK AREAS TO REMOVE and then click on parts of the photo that are not purple that you want to discard.
Click on the KEEP CHANGES button.
Repeat step 7 until you have removed what you want to remove and kept what you want to keep.
Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.



Click the word INSERT at the top of the screen.
Click the word WORDART.
Select the design you would like and input your text.
Position the text on the screen.
Repeat this step to add additional text as desired.
Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.
 You may wish to insert shapes such as a heart, smiley, or boxes in which you can type dialogues.


Click the word INSERT at the top of the screen.
Click on the words CLIP ART
A box will appear on the left side of the screen.
Select the graphics you might wish to add.
Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.



Click the word INSERT at the top of the screen.
Click on the words CLIP ART
A box will appear on the right side of the screen.
Select and position the graphics you might wish to add
Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.



Click on the little screen on the bottom right of your window to view your card.
Press the escape key to return to edit mode.
Adjust size and spacing of graphics
Verify the wording is what you would like.
Repeat as necessary until you like your card.
Save your PowerPoint file the way you normally save PowerPoint files.



Print your card the way you normally print PowerPoint files.
Don't forget to set the Printer settings for PHOTO and the type of paper you are using. Use either matte or glossy paper for printing. Do not use regular 20 pound bond paper.

Press SAVE AS button in the box that will appear.
Under SAVE AS TYPE select JPEG FILE INTERCHANGE FORMAT
Press Save.
,,,