 Leos have really big egos that can hurt very easily. They need to know that you appreciate them and that they're loved. They don't like to show it, but they are very easily hurt. Even if you don't put them down, if you don't show you appreciate them, they won't feel secure and might then look for another suitor who does show appreciation.;
, Leos don't like to date anyone they can't respect. They like strong, confident, independent women. You can be sensitive and show emotion privately, because Leos will defend and protect you if they agree that you have been mistreated, but if you are consistently pushed around by others then a Leo probably won't respect you.
 Leo men love feminine women, so don't come off as too masculine and dominant. It's a turnoff to a Leo if a woman tries to be more manly than he is. Leos love to date women they can show off and be proud of. You don't have to be popular but you should be sociable because Leo guys respect well-liked women.
 Even though they hide it, Leos need to be nurtured when they are hurting. They don't like to be treated as helpless and pathetic but they do like to be comforted. When they say they don't want to talk about it with you, inside they do but they need to know you care enough to keep asking.
 Leo men get bored easily and need to be entertained in the relationship. Have a sense of humor and do things they wouldn't expect. Maybe buy some fun sexy lingerie and have an exciting night.
 Most Leos love social atmospheres that get them out of the house. They can be very romantic and love fancy restaurants and the high life. They love to have fun and try new things.
 Leos attract a lot of women, so naturally they tend to have some female friends. Leos surround themselves with people who admire them and there is almost never actual romance in those relationships. It is a turn-off to a Leo if his woman is regularly accusing him of acting inappropriately when in actuality he has done nothing wrong and would not disrespect anyone that way, or really in any way, and especially not his significant other.

