 This is generally the most common method credit card companies use to calculate a finance charge. It is also the most expensive, as new purchases and balances are accounted for immediately with no grace period to avoid accruing interest. Some credit card companies allow a grace period between the purchase date and the date the bill is due, so that if you pay your bill completely on time, there is no interest charged.Add up the outstanding balance for each day in your billing period. Include any new purchases made to this balance. For example, if your balance was $180 for 10 days, you get $1,800. Then, say your balance was $110 for 5 days. You get $550. Then, for 15 days, your balance was $90. You get $1,350. Once you have a range of numbers spanning the complete billing cycle, add all these numbers together. For example, $1,800 plus $550 plus $1,350 comes to $3,700.
Divide this number by the total number of days in your billing cycle. Most billing cycles are 30 to 31 days. The number you get is the average daily balance that is then used to calculate the interest owed. For the above example, the average daily balance would be 3,700 divided by 30, coming to approximately $124. The finance charge is the APR (Annual Percentage Rate) adjusted for the number of billing cycles in a year times the average daily balance. For example, if the APR is 18% with 12 billing cycles, the monthly rate would be 1.5%. The finance charge would be the 1.5% of the average daily balance.
 Sometimes, new purchases are not accounted for when adding up your outstanding balance.


Add up the outstanding balance for each day in your billing period. The calculation is basically the same as before, only you do not account for new purchases.
Once again, divide this number by the number of days in the billing cycle. This is your finance average daily balance.The finance charge is the APR (Annual Percentage Rate) adjusted for the number of billing cycles in a year times the average daily balance.
Note that a different APR can be applied for different items such as transfers or cash advances. Also, APR rates may expire after a certain period.
 These two methods, while similar, are vastly different in how they affect you as a credit card user.


If you're using your credit card to make purchases, such as gas and groceries, you should look for a card that excludes new purchases from the daily balance. This way, you have a small grace period between billing cycles each month.
In general, it's best to avoid cards that include new purchases in your daily balance. Depending on the credit card company, there may not be a grace period, and finance charges can increase quickly. If you're using your card just to transfer balances and do not make purchases on it, however, you won't be as affected. Note that the balance on which interest is calculated can vary from issuer to issuer including ending balance, previous balance, and so on.