 The original PS3 design is often referred to as the "fat" PS3. Only some fat PS3s are backwards compatible, but not all of them are. The "slim" and "super slim" models are not backwards compatible. The ones with 4 USB ports on the front are. If you don't have a backwards compatible PS3, the only way to play PS2 games on it without jailbreaking is by purchasing and downloading the games available on the PlayStation Store.
You can jailbreak a PS3 to play PS2 games. Doing so will void your warranty and can get you banned from the PlayStation Network.;
, All backwards compatible PS3s are "fat," but not all fat PS3s are backwards compatible. If you have a fat PS3, check the number of USB ports on the front of the PS3. If the PS3 has four USB ports, it is backwards compatible. If it has two USB ports, it cannot play PS2 discs., Find the sticker on the back of your PS3. The last digits will inform you as to whether you have full hardware backwards compatibility, or limited software emulation:CECHAxx (60 GB) and CECHBxx (20 GB) - Full hardware backwards compatibility.
CECHCxx (60 GB) and CECHExx (80 GB) - Limited software emulation. You may run into issues with some PS2 discs.
CECHGxx and above - These models are not backwards compatible.
 While you can usually just pop the PS2 disc into a compatible PS3 and start playing without issues, some PS2 games have known compatibility problems. This is more common if you have a CECHCxx (60 GB) or CECHExx (80 GB) model, which use software emulation instead of full hardware backwards compatibility. You can check the full list of games and what models they are compatible with here., If your game is compatible with your PS3 model, it will start just like a PS3 game. You'll see the PlayStation 2 logo and your game will begin., When the game starts, you'll be prompted to insert a controller. Press the PS button on your PS3 controller and then assign the controller to "Slot 1." This will allow the game to recognize your DualShock 3 or SixAxis controller.

You may not be able to play PS2 games properly if you are using a third-party PS3 controller. If you can't get it to work, try an official controller.
 In order to save your PS2 games, you'll need to create a virtual Memory Card that the PS2 game will treat as a physical card. You can do this from the PS3's XMB.


Press the PS button to open the XMB.
Open the Game menu and select "Memory Card Utility (PS/PS2)."
Select "New Internal Memory Card" and then choose "Internal Memory Card (PS2)."
Assign the Memory Card to "Slot 1." This will allow the game to access the new Memory Card.
 Your backwards compatible PS3 will have a couple of PS2-related settings that you can adjust. These may improve the image quality of PS2 games:

Open the Settings menu in the XMB and select "Game Settings."
Choose your Upscaler settings. This will affect how the image is zoomed or stretched to fit your screen. "Off" will display the game in its original resolution, which may result in black bars. "Normal" will increase the resolution to match your screen size. "Full" will stretch the image to fit your display. Choose "Off" if the game doesn't look good when upscaled.
Choose your Smoothing settings. Smoothing will attempt to smooth out rough edges in your games. This will be more noticeable in games with 3D graphics. Smoothing may not be noticeable in the games you play, and may actually make things look worse.

