 A cabbie was stopped by a young man in Manhattan who asked, "How do I get to Carnegie Hall?" "Practice," replied the cabbie. Practice makes perfect. Write constantly—whether it's your story, or just a thought or an observation. The more you do it, the better you'll get. It doesn't have to be perfect, it doesn't have to read how you want it to initially––what matters most is getting it out. There will be plenty of time to review the approaches to writing taken later.
 Everything and everyone in your novel should have a reason for being there—saying the leaves are green shows the readers it's spring or summer. Saying the character had a three-day beard shows that he's under duress of some sort (or he's a Hollywood actor). Every character has a motivation for what they do, so ask "them" as you write. "Why are you about to get on that plane and leave him alone in Morocco?"

, Writing improves with distance. On returning to it, you'll often see what works and doesn't work in your written piece, whereas trying to perceive this when you're stuck in the middle of it is a lot harder. Set aside a chapter for a week and come back to it later, refreshed and with new eyes.


If you get writer's block, stop writing for a few days or so, and listen to some calming music to clear your head.
 Let other people read your book's manuscript. They can give you valuable feedback, and perhaps even help you as you continue to write.
 Unsurprisingly, there will be plenty that doesn't work. Don't be afraid to delete characters, plots and anything else from your book if it isn't working. Equally, don't be afraid to add new elements and characters that seem to bridge gaps and give sense to what you're writing. In the case of non-fiction, never be afraid to find more facts to back up your statements!

, Take Veronica Roth, author of the Divergent trilogy. She says in her blog that it took her at least 48 tries to find an idea to stick with, and that was in college!

, This old saying can either work for you or not. It's good to not need to do a whole bunch of research before writing, but a little doesn't hurt. Also, it's a good exercise: Writing new things could help unearth an idea!

, Try to make your mind churn out ideas all the time, so you never have an excuse not to write. You don't need to fit EVERYTHING into your story, just enough to satisfy the reader. If you get sick of writing, and just come to a stop, take a break and re-connect with the world outside, where you get some ideas from. Or try free-form writing-just write, no edits, no erasing "because it sounds bad" just write, write and write, - even if they are scattered scenes, rhymes, or two words.

