 Catching the kitten is not the end of your project. Once you have him, make sure you are prepared to handle him carefully.When dealing with the kitten, you'll want to keep a pair of gloves handy. Do not handle the kitten directly until you have had him checked out by the vet.


Kittens are cute and can become cuddly, but this one is still a wild animal. If one escapes from his carrier (or box,etc) you can try gently scooping him up with a towel., The containment process is crucial when introducing a kitten to a new environment. To keep him from becoming even more traumatized, you want to introduce new things (and people, sounds, and other animals) very slowly. When you first rescue the kitten, make sure you have a safe small place to bring him. This could be a small room, such as your bathroom, or even a comfortable box where he won't be disturbed.


Make sure your kitten is comfortable in confinement. Provide him with the basics--a towel to sleep on, food, water, and somewhere to go to the bathroom (this can be newspaper or a small litter box).
 You will definitely want to take the stray kitten to a vet in your area. Ask the vet to perform all necessary tests and vaccinations. This could get expensive, so make sure you are prepared for that. Also, remember this is very scary for the kitten, so be ready to transport him to and from the vet as carefully (and quietly) as possible.


You'll want to specifically make sure the vet to check for basic ailments such as worms, distemper, rabies, and respiratory problems. Also, it's a great idea to talk to the vet about having the kitten spayed or neutered., The kitten is probably adorable, but you may either not want to keep him, or not be able to properly care for him. The next best thing is to find him an adoptive home. If you have some time to devote to this (and want visitation rights), try checking with your friends and friends of friends. Post pictures on social media--kittens can be hard to resist!If you can't find a home on your own, contact your local animal shelter. They will be able to help you figure out a safe place for the kitten., Maybe you just can't resist that sweet little face, and you've decided that the best home for the kitten is your home. That's great! Just make sure that you are prepared to be the best pet parent possible. In addition to getting all of the necessities (litter box, food, toys, any medications), you want to also be emotionally prepared.


Remember that this is a big adjustment for a stray kitten, and it will take some time to adjust. Seek advice from the vet and the local shelter on how to properly bond with the kitten. Hopefully, in time, you'll have a new best friend! 