 The vertical line should still point upward, but the horizontal line should tilt downward.


The vertical line will be the front of the kangaroo and the horizontal line will be one of its hind legs. Since the kangaroo has long back legs, this horizontal line should be approximately the same length as the the vertical line.;
, This new line should only be one-quarter the length of the lower horizontal line.


Also note that this line should extend outward in the same direction of the lower horizontal line, but it should curve in the opposite direction (upward instead of downward).
This new line will form the lower part of the kangaroo's head.
 Draw one long, curved line connection the outer point of the top horizontal line to the inner point of the lower horizontal line.


This line should rise above the top point and curve into a half-circle above the top point of the vertical line. Leave some space in between the lines; when finished with this portion, you should see the shape of the head.
Continue drawing toward the bottom point from behind the vertical line. Curve this new line close to the original line for one-third of its length, then expand it into a larger curve until it reaches the bottom point. From the top of the head to the bottom of the body, the new line should look similar to the letter "S."

, Complete the first back leg by drawing a parallel line just beneath the lower horizontal line of your original "L."


Bring the back end of this new line up to meet the lower portion of the curved back line.
Draw three short lines in between the front of both lower horizontal lines. These short lines will represent toes.
Sketch a half-circle inside the body, connected to the front curve, and roughly one-third up from the bottom. The half-circle should not reach the back curve line.
Complete the other back leg simply by sketching another line that runs parallel to the original lower horizontal line. This new line should be above the original and should remain outside the body.
 Add three downward curved lines to the front of the body, placing them roughly one-third from the top.


These lines should mimic the curve of the back legs, but they should only be approximately one-quarter the length of the back legs.
Draw three short parallel lines in between the lower two front leg lines; these will be the toes of the closest front leg.
 Draw another curved line coming off the bottom of the back body ("S") curve. This line should curve upward and point away from the body.


Note that its size should roughly match the size of the back legs.
After drawing the first tail line, draw another line just above it. Both lines should be connected to the body and should meet each other at a point.
 Draw a shallow "C" curve at the back of the head, allowing the curve to slope upward. Connect the top of this curve to the head in a straight line, completing one ear.


Draw another ear just like the first directly beneath the first. The second ear is "closer," so it should be slightly larger.
Note that both ears should be just a little smaller than the head itself.
 Add a dot to the center of the face for an eye and a straight or gently curved line near the bottom of the head for the mouth.


This is the final step. Once you draw the face, the entire kangaroo is complete.

