 Mental fitness is as important as physical fitness in tennis. Focusing on these states and practicing ways to improve your mental focus should form a part of your regular training. The four essential mental states are:Concentration - staying in the present
Commitment - you must maintain both drive and stamina
Control - not only of the ball and racquet, but also over your emotions and behaviour, including your reaction to bad weather, broken racquets, bad line calls, snapped nets, noisy crowds, etc.
Confidence - your certain belief that you can manage anything on the court.;
, Winning will come from better aligned focus, and getting the basics right. How can you get the basics right if you spend your time focusing on winning the point instead of focusing on hitting the ball?


Think of your concentration level as a limited bucket. If use up your concentration on trying to win, hitting a winner or the previous point you lost or won, then you have less concentration to spend on hitting that next ball. This leads to more unforced errors.
 Tennis is a short game when you think about it, and many players dwell on how they should have won that last point, what they did wrong, or how to win the next point. This takes away from your concentration bucket and causes more unforced errors.
 By enjoying each point, and focusing on the enjoyment each strike brings, you will naturally focus on the ball.


Keep your eye on the ball. This is the key to good tennis, and you will naturally hit better shots.
 Instead of trying to win the point, try thinking about how to make the rally longer. After all, you are here to play tennis and the enjoyment it brings should be at the forefront of the game's purpose. By trying to make the point longer, you will distract yourself from focusing on winning the point, and instead point that focus on hitting the ball correctly. After all, to make the point last longer, you need to hit more balls in, which means you need to focus on the ball and hitting it correctly.
 If the opportunity presents itself then take it, but do not force the winner. By looking for winners, you are taking away from your concentration bucket, leaving less for focusing on the ball.
 When you start losing, don't step back and start playing like a weak player. Know that you have done this before and that you can play at this level. Most of the time you will start to focus on how many points you have lost, and how poorly you are playing. This will take away from your concentration bucket, and leave you with nothing to hit the ball with.
 Substitute an enjoyment of guiding the ball to its desired location. When you guide the ball, your concentration becomes focused on the ball, rather than on you. Your strokes will become naturally longer with the correct follow through, and power will come when you learn to co-ordinate the ball directly onto the sweet spot. You'll find your stamina is increased as you get less tired hitting the ball, because you are letting the racquet do the work.

