 Though TEACHNYC is focused on recruiting and preparing teachers for positions in New York City, the organization is a valuable resource for anyone interested in teaching in the state of New York. They hold in-person workshops on the certification process in Brooklyn about once a month.The TEACHNYC website is especially easy to navigate, and includes many of the resources that outline the different pathways to certification in detail.
Reserve a space for an in-person workshop ahead of time by submitting a registration form and paying the $25 workshop fee.
 The New York State Teacher Certification Examination (NYSTCE) Program administers the tests you’ll need to take in order to teach in New York. Most teacher preparation programs will require you to pass the major tests, like the ALST, before completing the program. If you plan to enroll in a post-graduate teacher prep program, passing these tests may be a requirement for admission. Check with a program advisor or representative to find out more about specific requirements.You can get prep guides and practice tests directly from the NYSTCE. While the prep guides are free, practice tests cost $20 each.Tests you may need to take include: Academic Literacy Skills Test (ALST), Educating All Students (EAS), edTPA, Elementary Assessment of Teaching Skills - Written (ATS-W), Secondary Assessment of Teaching Skills - Written (ATS-W), Liberal Arts and Sciences Test (LAST), Content Specialty Tests (CSTs), Bilingual Education Assessments (BEAs), Communication and Quantitative Skills Test (CQST), and the Assessment of Teaching Skills-Performance (ATS-P) (Video)
For questions about test scores, contact the NYSTCE directly.
 If you have already been certified to teach in another U.S. state, you will likely be able to get certified in the state of New York as well. You will still need to pass the New York State Exams, but can apply for a conditional certificate that will allow you to teach immediately.In order to apply for a conditional certificate, visit the NYSED website. Select “Certification” then “Pathways to Certification” then “Applicants from Other States.” On this page, you will select the option that describes your situation and the website will prompt you to provide the information necessary to apply for a conditional certificate.
While teaching with a conditional certificate, pass the exams within two years to earn a New York teaching certification. If you are certified by the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards to teach certain levels or subjects, you may not need to take any tests at all.
 TEACH will prompt you to submit the paperwork needed for you to become certified. You will have to submit your college transcripts, your exam score reports, and proof of teaching experience of any kind. The NYSED may also request further information while evaluating your application.If you have been certified to teach in another U.S. state, include proof of these certifications as well.
 Since the NYSED is responsible for certifying people to teach in the state of New York, consult them directly with any specific questions regarding your qualifications. Specifically, reach out to the Office of Teaching Initiatives, located in Albany, New York.For calls regarding certification, dial: (518) 474-3901

