 Patiently handling one situation with an impatient toddler is worth rewarding yourself for. However, teaching the toddler patience as a skill can help you and the toddler handle waiting in future situations. You can teach a toddler patience and help them wait in specific situations by showing them how to do it. Modeling appropriate waiting gives the toddler concrete examples of how to be patient.For example, if you’re waiting in traffic, you can talk to the toddler about what you were doing to remain patient. You might say, “I’m going to take a few deep breaths and play searching games while I’m waiting for traffic to move.”
Or, for instance, if you're a daycare teacher, you could talk to the toddler about strategies you use to remain patient. You might say, “When I’m waiting for someone to come, I make a list in my head of all the fun things we can do together.”
Pay attention how you talk to your toddler as well as other people when you are feeling patient. It is important to show your toddler that you can maintain your composure.
 You can help toddlers learn patience by giving them the opportunity to wait.This means creating situations in which they have to be patient and entertain or distract themselves. The more practice a toddler has waiting, the more patient they will learn to be.


Instead of immediately giving the toddler what they want, have them wait a few moments. For example, if the toddler tells you they want a snack, instead of immediately jumping up to cut some apple slices, tell them snack will be served in 20 minutes and they have to wait.
Use a timer to help the toddler get a sense of time. You can set it for five minutes and have the toddler wait that long to start a new activity.
 Doing this helps the toddler develop independence and patience. When a toddler can problem-solve, they can come up with ways to distract and entertain themselves when they need to wait.This means there's less entertaining and distracting you have to do.


You can prompt your toddler to problem solve by saying something like, "What do you think you could do to pass the time?"
If the toddler is struggling to complete an activity or answer a question, instead of rushing in to help, give them time to work it out for themselves.
Offer hints and tips, but let the toddler come up with solutions on their own. For example, if they’re trying to put on their shoes and having a hard time, you might say, “Try unstrapping them first,” instead of taking the shoe and unstrapping the Velcro for the toddler.
 When they’re impatient, toddlers are known to get upset and many throw temper tantrums. Showing the toddler ways to calm and relax themselves can help them calm themselves down before they have an angry outburst.It also gives them some activities they can do when they have to delay gratification.


Try teaching your toddler grounding exercises. For example, you can ask your toddler to tell you five things they see, four things they can feel, three things they can hear, two things they can smell, and one good thing about themselves.
You can also teach your toddler how to use deep-breathing to calm down. You can show them how to inhale through their nose, hold it for a few moments, then release it through their mouth.
Or, for example, you can show the toddler how to close their eyes and visualize something pleasant. You might say, “Imagine you’re at your favorite place when you feel yourself getting tired of waiting.”

, Being present in the moment instead of thinking about what they want to do or have next can help a toddler be more patient.Being mindful of what they're thinking, feeling, and sensing can also occupy a toddler so that they don't have time to be impatient.


Show them how to be aware of their thoughts by asking them what they’re thinking. You can also show them by saying things like, “I’m thinking about lunch right now and I’m thinking about it a lot.”
Teach them to be aware of their emotions and feelings. For example, you might simply ask, “How do you feel right now? Happy? Excited? Bored? Sad?” Or, you could say, “Think about your feelings right now.”
Help them be aware of their senses by showing them how to mentally scan their body. You might say, “Start at your toes. How do they feel? What about your feet? Your ankles? Keep going.”

