 Does he blow a gasket if someone calls in sick for anything short of Ebola? Does she grouse about notices by text or email instead of a phone call? Use these observations to help you determine when and how to call in sick.Fear of upsetting the boss by calling in sick is one reason why the average American worker takes five sick days per year, even though he/she is entitled to eight or nine.In the best case scenario, you’ll find your fears eased because your boss actually responds quite reasonably to legitimate sick day requests.
In the worst case scenario, you’ll find that you’re going to have to be insistent and persistent to secure a sick day, even when you really need it.
 If you’re lucky, your boss may be fine with a sick-day text or email (see samples below in this article). Realistically, though, you’re probably going to have to go through an actual, person-to-person phone conversation.


In most instances, calling in sick attaches greater respect, seriousness, and legitimacy to your request.Deciding when to call is important as well. You don’t want to call too early — you might wake your boss up, or give the impression that you didn’t even give coming in to work a chance. However, calling too late may be deemed disrespectful for leaving everyone in the lurch by your last-minute absence.
The best time to call is usually sometime between when you normally wake up and when you leave for work. This says “I tried, but it’s obvious it’s just not happening today.”

, Yes, your boss wants to get the feeling that you’re actually sick, but no, he/she does not need the gory details of your morning spent bent over the toilet. Be clear, direct, and brief in explaining why you need to stay home.By knowing your boss and how he or she responds to sick day requests, you’ll have a better idea of how much detail you need to provide regarding your particular illness, symptoms, etc.
Unless you’re certain of your phone acting skills, faking or exacerbating symptoms for effect is probably not a good idea. You’re more likely to elicit suspicion than sympathy if your “scratchy voice” or “persistent cough” sound manufactured, even if you actually have those symptoms in a milder form.
Apologize for the inconvenience, but don’t feel guilty if you are truly sick and unable to come in. Remember, you are actually doing everyone a favor., You don’t need to give everyone explicit details about how sick you were, or play up your remaining symptoms as proof of why you stayed home the day before. (On the other hand, you probably shouldn’t act like you feel better than ever, either.) Instead, a little extra common courtesy is in order.


Be appreciative of any efforts made to pick up the slack in your absence, and apologetic for any inconveniences you caused.
Likewise, show you care about your co-workers’ health by practicing exemplary hygiene upon returning.Wash your hands like you’re a surgeon heading into the O.R., and pump that hand sanitizer bottle on your desk until it’s empty. Declare war on any remaining contagion you may have.

