 Cholera is most often passed through drinking or using water that has cholera bacteria in it. Getting your water from sources that you know are safe and clean can help you avoid contracting cholera.Adequate chlorination of local water supplies is essential. Even if water is treated with chlorine, if it is not enough (parts per million dose), then even treated water can pass on the cholera bacteria and infection can result. When in doubt, opt for boiled drinking water.
Ask your host or accommodations if the water has been boiled, bottled or chemically treated. If he or she is unsure, seek a source that you know is safe. Use the same procedure for bottled or canned carbonated beverages.
Check the seal of bottled and canned drinks to make sure that the seal isn’t broken. If it is, opt for a bottle or can that is clearly sealed. Consider wiping off the outside of the container before drinking bottled or canned beverages.Stay away from tap water and fountain drinks as they could contain contaminated water.Avoid ice cubes at all costs, as this can transmit the bacteria easily.;
, You may not be able to find or access clean water sources. If this is the case, you can also safely disinfect your own water through methods such as boiling or filtering it.Disinfect your water by:


Boiling it for one minute
Filtering it and adding two drops of household bleach or ½ iodine tablet per liter.
 You may also find yourself in a remote area, perhaps while you are hiking, with no supplies such as a filter, bleach, or pot and pan. In these cases, you can use water purification tablets or powders. These are small and easy to carry. You may want to purchase them before you leave, as they may not be available once you are abroad.


Read the package labeling to see the strength of your specific purification tablet or powder. Consult the chart on the package to learn how many tabs you’ll need to purify the water you want to use. Remove the tablet from the strip and put it in the water. Stir with a clean utensil and cover your water. Wait 30 minutes before drinking and make sure to consume all of the water within 24 hours of purification.
Consider using a chlorine liquid purifier called Dlo Lavi if you are in Haiti. Use one capful of the product per 5 gallons (20 liters) in clear water or two capfuls per 5 gallons (20 liters) if the water is very dirty or cloudy. As with purification tabs, stir the water with a clean utensil and cover it while waiting 30 minutes for your disinfected water. Again, make sure to use all of the purified water within 24 hours.
 Whenever you disinfect or purify water, it’s important that it remains clean. Covering any purified source with a tight light can protect the water and ensure that it remains safe to use. This is also the case for sources like bottled water or canned beverages.
 Just as drinking water contaminated with the cholera bacteria can make you sick, so can eating food prepared or cleaned in contaminated water. Try and eat only foods cooked freshly and completely through. Make sure any dishes are hot when they arrive to you.Make sure any food you purchase from street vendors is cooked in front of you and is served hot.
Stay away from any raw or undercooked meats and seafood.This includes sushi.You may want to avoid all seafood in endemic areas.
Consider pre-packaged foods if you are unsure of a food source., Most people love fruits and vegetables, which can also be a good alternative for a person who may not like or be unsure of meat. But just as it’s important to eat thoroughly cooked foods, so it is to check your fruits and vegetables to ensure they are not contaminated with cholera.Stay away from unpeeled fruits and vegetables. This includes salads or dishes with fruits like grapes and berries. If any unpeeled fruits or vegetables are in a dish, make sure they’re thoroughly cooked.Consider sticking to fruits and vegetables that you can peel yourself such as bananas, oranges, and avocados.
 Dairy foods such as ice cream are often contaminated with cholera. Staying away from dairy products and unpasteurized milk may minimize your risk of cholera. If you want to consume dairy, make sure it comes from a known source and is both sealed and pasteurized before consumption., If you are traveling to a specific region of the world that still experiences cholera outbreaks, it may be useful to check to see if there is a current cholera outbreak. This can remind you to be extra vigilant about taking preventative measures to avoid contracting cholera.


Call the country’s embassy or local consulate or consult its website. Either may be able to provide you with information on cholera outbreaks. The United States Department of State provides a list of all embassies and consulates in the US at http://www.state.gov/s/cpr/rls/dpl/32122.htm.
Consult the websites of international organizations that track health issues and often have information on current cholera outbreaks. These include the World Health Organization or International Committee of the Red Cross.You can also call the CDC at 877-FYI-TRIP (394-8747) or visit their website for travelers at http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel.
 If you’re in areas with a known cholera outbreak or with unsanitary water, it’s important to be especially vigilant about washing your hands. This can minimize your risk of contracting the disease or spreading it to someone else. You can use either soap and water or hand cleanerWash with clean water and soap. Rub your soapy, wet hands together for at least 20 seconds. Clean between your fingers, under your nails, and up your wrists. Make sure to rinse thoroughly.Use an alcohol-based hand cleanser if no water is available. Make sure that is at least 60% alcohol. Consider buying sanitizer before you leave so that you have it on hand if you get into a situation where you don’t have water but can’t buy sanitizer.Make sure to clean your hands when you prepare food, before you eat, and any time you use the restroom.
 Dishes washed in water contaminated with cholera can also infect food placed on them, and in turn you. Make sure that you or anyone with whom you are traveling washes dishes in bottled, boiled, or chemically treated water., You’ll need to maintain your own hygiene while traveling and brushing your teeth is a vital part of that. Brushing your teeth with water from unknown or dirty sources can also increase your risk of getting cholera.Remember that exposure to even a small amount of water contaminated with cholera can infect you, even if it’s just to brush your teeth.
Use only bottled, boiled, or chemically treated water to brush your teeth. If these aren’t available, consider carrying some portable brushes that have toothpaste that you can chew or even chewing a piece of gum. Use these until you can find a safe water source to brush your teeth.
 There is a relatively low risk of contracting cholera when you are traveling and most doctors don’t recommend getting vaccinated. If you are especially concerned about the disease or going to be in an area with a cholera outbreak for an extended period, such as doing missionary or humanitarian work, you may want to consider getting a cholera vaccine. Be aware that the traditional injected version is only minimally effective at preventing cholera. In addition, the two oral vaccines are not available in the United States.Talk to your doctor or local health care provider if you are interested in the vaccines. The two oral cholera vaccines that the WHO has prequalified are Dukoral and ShanKoe.
Be aware that no country requires immunization for cholera as a condition of entry.
 If you show any of the signs or symptoms of cholera, get to a doctor immediately. Cholera can quickly turn fatal, even in the healthiest individuals. Seeing a doctor can ensure you get proper and prompt treatment if you do have cholera or another disease.Tell the doctor why you are visiting the office. Let him or her know what your symptoms are and when they started. You may also want to inform the doctor if you’ve had any dirty water and if you’ve been using methods such as purification tabs to clean your water.
The symptoms of cholera include large volume depletion through rice-water-colored diarrhea. It is imperative that supportive measures be taken to replenish hydration and electrolyte loss, as dehydration can be fatal.

