 You can’t complete this gigantic endeavour on your own, you need more hands to lighten the load. Get to searching for volunteers who are interested in giving back to their community. You could pin-up notices at hot spot areas like cafés, restaurants or supermarkets advertising this new opportunity. This doesn't necessarily mean they have to be over twenty they could be as young as fourteen. Anyone who can help should be welcomed. .;
, The most important place is to find a place for you all to meet. The atmosphere should be welcoming, comfortable and relaxed. You could hire and deck out a building or you could do it in your own home. It’s best to find a place that has all necessary amenities like bathrooms, a kitchen and enough car parking space.
 It’s important to keep them all entertained, that’s the whole premise as to why you wanted to make this group in the first place. The Elderly are known to be easily impressed and easily entertained. Old fashioned board games or a deck of cards a great place to start. The more experience with them, the more aware you will be with what activities they enjoy and want to do.
 If the women like knitting, create a project for them all to make their grandsons or granddaughters a jumper for winter, whoever’s is nominated the best one wins a prize. Don’t forget the gentlemen as well, you could create a project for them all to bring in something that reminds them of positive events of the past and share it with the group.
 It’s always good sharing around information and allowing skill workshops can help with that. If some people know how to cook really well, one week they could all try cooking the certain dish someone comes up with. Other workshop ideas could be; How to knit, How to play chess, How to clean.
 Everyone is different and it’s important to provide for everybody. It’s important to provide activities for those who aren't as social as all of them, perhaps they just don’t want to be home alone all day and want to hear and see people. You could provide a book shelf with books from your home you don’t read any more and let them read. The bookshelf could also be a place for the group to leave books they don’t need any more for the rest to have a peek at.
 After the group is well established, you can take the team down to the local golfing range or park for a BBQ lunch. It’s a great way to get out and even build on numbers by taking them on outings to their favourite places to visit.
 You can’t go all day without food so it’s important to provide enough food for the group, whether you provide snacks, drinks, breakfast, lunch and supper is up to you. Don’t forget to supply both generic and healthy options because some senior citizens have chronic health issues and often times they must abide by strict eating routines. These people still need to eat, and you can take the strain of providing for themselves off their back. Ask each person upon initiation if they have any diet requirements or preferences to get a demography of how to provide for the group.
 If there are individuals who are immensely lonely in the four walls of their home, you could provide a unique service by letting them stay the night at a low cost. Sometimes people, especially the aged, feel miserable by themselves day after day. By providing a place for them to commune with yourself and others for a night, let’s them return to their lives with a fresh and open mind about things like purpose and happiness. You’ll need to provide beds, closets, bedside tables, radios and anything else you can think of that would make the short lived getaway relaxing.

