 As your child learns more about the concepts of saving and spending, begin to teach your child how to make wise choices about money. Teach your child that when he buys one item, he will not have enough money to buy a different item as well. To help do this:


Make your child be part of your decision-making when you go shopping. Treat your child like a grown up and ask his opinion when trying to decide between items. For example, show him that you could buy some apples and crackers for the price of one chunk of expensive cheese. Discuss the benefits of all of the items with your child.
 Explain to your child that there are items that can be bought cheaper when purchased in bulk, but that buying in bulk could also mean wasting food.


Take him to a bulk grocery store and talk about the things that your family eats regularly. For example, maybe each member of your family loves the same type of cereal. If this is the case, buying that cereal in bulk makes more sense than buying many smaller boxes of that cereal.
 When you child start receiving allowances, you could plan a day trip with him and explore the nearest bank. During this trip, you could help your child to set up his own savings account, and demonstrate how an ATM works.


Open up a savings account for your child that you control. Show him that his name is on the account, and that he can begin putting money into his savings account whenever he wants.
 Like when your child was younger, games can still be an excellent way to help your child to understand monetary concepts. Consider games that involve buying, selling, paying, and renting.


Some board games that include these concepts are Monopoly and The Game of Life.
Aside from board games, you could also help your child to set up a booth, such as a lemonade stand, to help him learn the value of hard work. Help him to prepare the items that he needs, like a table and a pitcher.
 A savings goal chart is like a calendar that your child can use to plan out how much he has to save, and when he can buy the things that he wants. To make a savings goal chart:


Ask your child what he wants; this could be a toy, or a trip to something fun, like a water park. Print out a picture of the thing your child wants and paste it on to the chart.
Search for the price of the toy and then divide it up to determine how many days your child will need to save his allowance in order to be able to buy what he wants.
Mark each day that your child does chores with a sticker, to make it exciting as your child gets closer to earning his goal.

