 Why do you want to convert this person to Christianity? Do you want to prove something to others? Do you feel obligated to do it? Has God put this desire in your heart? Or do you just really love and care for this person and want him/her to go with you to Heaven?;
, Are you a devoted Christian? Do you put God first in your life? Are you a good example of how a Christian should be? Make sure to have a close relationship with God. Attend a church every Sunday, read your Bible, have quiet times, and of course .
 Prayer is the number one factor here. If you want to convert your Muslim friend to Christianity, you have to tell God first! Tell Him how you feel, and really open your heart to Him, so that He can see how devoted you are, and so that He can help you overcome this challenge and achieve victory. Remember to pray daily and to include your Muslim friend. If you friend is sick or has pain you can also ask to pray directly for them and if they accept and Jesus heals them you then have Jesus backing up your words with His power. Have faith, both in God and in yourself.
 This knowledge may come in handy, especially when it comes to discussions.



Be persuasive, but be respectful. You'll be more successful if the other person doesn't feel threatened, so don't insult their faith, or they'll simply become defensive and stubborn (not because they're Muslim but because they're human). Likewise, don't try to force them to convert; it's disrespectful and will not work.
 If your friend won't attend church, then introduce that person to some of your Christian friends so that he/she can feel the warmth and love that we share with each other.


"Why should I go to church?" Share your testimony (story of how you came to know Christ or of what God's done in your life) or have a friend share their testimony.
Talk about salvation, but don't overdo it — even if you're friends, they'll see you as preachy and tune you out. Again, the goal is to lead by example. Don't talk about doom and gloom and things to come.
 Showing a good example is also a big key. Be kind, not only to him/her, but to everyone! Always have a smile on your face and always be happy, for God always wants our light to shine. Our actions can have a great impact on others — remember that talk is cheap, but actions are worth so much more.
 Be there whenever you can. If your friend is in a bad situation, don't just sit there and pity them, but rather, do something for them! That way they can see how extraordinary you are.
 Your friend may not ever want to become a Christian, especially when they state something like: "The Bible is a product of man . . . . Not of God (what about the Qur'an) The Bible did not fall magically from the clouds. Man created it as a historical record of tumultuous times, and it has evolved through countless translations, additions, and revisions. History has never had a definitive version of the book" from The Da Vinci Code (as referenced in the below-cited essay), but as the essay goes on to say, that shouldn't stop you from spreading Jesus message, nor from turning people (Muslim or otherwise) towards peace.


Remember, even if the person doesn't become a Christian when you are talking to him/her, your witness can make a lasting impact in that life and in a circle of influence, and may be nurtured to accept Christ later.
 Jesus said, "Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the Sons of God" (Matthew 5:9). Point out that Jesus/Isa is the Prince of Peace in the Bible. He calls his followers to bring peace to conflict or peace will have little meaning. We may intervene or interfere in warlike situations. We are to bring love and peace, joy,... with us -- Why?: "...brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall be with you" (2 Corinthians 13:11).
 Jesus told his disciples in Luke 10:16, "Anyone who accepts your message is also accepting me. And anyone who rejects you is rejecting me. And anyone who rejects me is rejecting God, who sent me."

