 Hay is an ideal food for Rex rabbits because it provides nutrition and it also wears down your Rex rabbit’s teeth, which are always growing.Make sure that your Rex rabbit has a large supply of fresh hay at all times.Refill your Rex rabbit’s hay at least once per day.
Timothy hay is a good variety for your Rex.
Try stuffing an empty paper towel roll or a cardboard box with hay for your Rex rabbit.
 Rabbit kibble is a nice nutritional supplement for your rex, but you do not need to give him a lot of it. You can give your Rex about ¼ cup of kibble every day unless your veterinarian says to do otherwise. Make sure that you get the plain kibble and not the mixed kind because some rabbits will pick out the tastiest parts and leave the more nutritious ones behind.


An overweight rabbit may only need 1/8 of a cup of kibble. If you your rabbit is not gaining weight properly, then he may need more than 1/8 of a cup. Ask your veterinarian if you are not sure how much kibble to give your rabbit., Rex rabbits enjoy munching on dark leafy greens, carrots, and some fruits. Try to give your Rex rabbit a few leaves of dark leafy greens each day as well as something crunchy, like carrot slices or apple slices. Some healthy veggie and fruit treats for your rabbit include:arugula
broccoli stems
collard greens
kale
bok choy
carrot slices
apple slices
banana slices

, Rex rabbits need plenty of fresh, clean water. Although Rex rabbits enjoy drinking out of a ceramic dish, these can tip over and make a mess in the cage. If you do go with a dish, make sure that it is heavy and check it often. Another option is to use a sipper bottle for your rabbit’s water. Sipper bottles will not tip and your rabbit will not be able to kick hay or feces into the water either.


Refill your rabbit’s water often and clean the dish or bottle out daily., Some foods can make your Rex rabbit sick if she eats them, so do not offer these foods to him. Never give your rabbit human foods except for the fruits and vegetables that they can tolerate. Other foods to avoid giving your rabbit include:broccoli
cabbage
cauliflower
brussel sprouts
spinach

