 Before you move or right after you arrive, get a map that shows each part of your island. One that lists landmarks and specific addresses is even better. Be prepared to see many versions of the same name, such as Contant and Upper Contant. Study this map as often as you can and write notes on it for reference.Informal landmarks, such as unusual trees, are used for navigation purposes as well. You can expect to learn these over time.
 Every island, and even each neighborhood, has its own set of particular mannerisms. As you settle in start to watch how people around you behave in certain situations and try to mirror their actions. For example, it is common to say “good morning” to everyone you meet on the islands, even if they are strangers. Not doing so will mark you to the locals as a tourist.Reading the local newspaper is a great way to understand what is going on around you. All of the big three islands have a specific newspaper that covers their activities. For example, in St. John you’ll want to read the St. John Tradewinds News., Either immediately before or shortly after you move, start to look into the local education options. Both private and public schools are available for school-age children. Be aware that your children may need to travel by bus or ferry to get to certain locations. The U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Education provides a K-12 listing for interested parents., The Bureau of Motor Vehicles (BMV) handles all license transactions. If you have a valid U.S. or foreign license it can usually be transferred without any additional tests. If you need an entirely new license, then you will need to take both written and driving tests. All of these actions require forms and fees, so check with the BMV before arriving.Be aware that USVI residents drive American style left-hand cars. But, unlike mainland Americans, they drive on the left side of the road, like the British. This can be a bit of a shock to new island drivers., If you are currently a U.S. citizen, after a month living on the island you can begin the process of applying for permanent resident status. You’ll need to show your birth certificate or passport along with a completed naturalization certificate. When this process is finished you’ll be able to vote.