 This way you will not be surprised in the midst of your instruction. Mechanics must have vast knowledge in adjusting, repairing, maintaining and testing all the mechanisms of a car.;
, A high school diploma provides a basic foundation upon which you can build your career in mechanics. Comprehending the technical side of auto mechanics will be easier with basic math, science and English knowledge.
 This type of course is usually offered by a vocational school or community college. Some car dealerships and manufacturers also provide this type of training. Earning a degree or certificate will add credibility to your resume.
 Search online or in professional publications for information.
 Research the top certification programs, and sign up. You may want to check with professionals in the area of mechanics you wish to pursue about which certification is recommended. Certification, although not required, will likely improve your chances of finding a career in a well-respected company.
 Whether you decide on a dealership or manufacturing company, hands on experience is one of the best ways to gain knowledge and skill. Internships offer real life scenarios that you are unlikely to get in school. Consider taking classes and an internship simultaneously. If you do well in your internship position, your employer may offer you a full time position after you complete your studies.
 If there is a company that you want to work for, find out if you can work there as a junior assistant. Once you establish yourself, you can apply for a full time position. Just like an intern position, you are given an opportunity to prove your competence in this capacity. If your employer is happy with your progress, you could ask if you could attend an auto mechanic training course at the expense of the company.
 This may include continuing education so that you are up-to-date with technology changes in the industry. Continued mechanic instruction will build your value and credibility within your company, which will likely improve your chances of promotion.

