 Humans tend to be more accepting of what is similar to ourselves than what is different.We often feel afraid and uncertain when we interact with someone who is very different from ourselves, making us less likely to cooperate.You can acknowledge this reluctance and push past it in order to become more comfortable with cultural differences. The best way to do this is to experience other cultures.
 The best way to experience other cultures is to travel. If you are able to travel to new places to experience culture, try doing what the natives do instead of visiting tourist attractions. Eat at restaurants where the locals eat and participate in activities that the locals attend.As you experience more and more cultures, you will develop a greater picture in your mind of what it means to be human. While you celebrate the differences among cultures, you can also see the similarities among them.
 Understanding the human condition means knowing that humans live almost everywhere on our world. The fact that humans have been able to migrate and inhabit everywhere on Earth that has at least a moderate climate means that humans are an adaptable species. It also means that the survival skills we have developed vary greatly from place to place.


From the Midwestern U.S. to Western Europe, central Africa, northern Alaska, China and Indonesia, people have different challenges from the environment in terms of getting food and shelter. What they have in common is living with other people in a social network.
 If you are unable to travel yourself, you can still learn about other cultures. You can watch television programming that introduces the customs and people of distant places. You can use the internet to find details about countries you may never have heard of before.


Be aware that if you are experiencing culture through media such as television, you are necessarily experiencing it through someone else’s “lens.” Some organizations or sources of information may have a particular agenda when presenting alternate cultures, and a savvy viewer should be aware of potential biases.
 Becoming friends with someone from a different culture can be a great way to broaden your view of humanity.Spend time with your friend and her family. Ask your friend to be a sort of “tour guide” for her culture.You’ll likely find that there are similarities between your families that you would never have guessed.
 Literature can be like a window into another world. Reading literature can help you develop a sense of empathyand expose you to cultures other than your own.


Select literature that was written by a member of a cultural or ethnic group rather than an outsider.
 Once you have experienced a variety of cultures, ask yourself what it is to be human. Gather your own experiences to find a common thread that crosses the lines between seemingly different cultures.

