 Rather than seeing failure as an isolated event, perfectionists tend to internalize the failure and see it as a failure of self. Learn to see failure as part of the growth process. Thomas Edison said, “I didn’t fail, I found 10,000 ways that won’t work.”Look at failure in the context of what you've learned. Did you develop a skill in the process? Did it show you another way of doing something? Did you meet new people you might not have met otherwise?
There are many examples throughout history of famous individuals using their failure to catapult them to greater success. Walt Disney was fired because his boss told him he "lacked imagination." Thomas Edison's teacher told him that he was "too stupid to learn anything."Michael Jordan said: "“I have missed more than 9,000 shots in my career. I have lost almost 300 games. On 26 occasions I have been entrusted to take the game winning shot, and I missed. I have failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed.”, Locking into a mental image of how you want things to go will only increase your disappointment when things don’t go that away. Acknowledging real-world conditions helps keep perfectionism at bay. For example, you might have a 5-year plan, a 10-year plan, or even a 15-year plan for your life. While it's great to have long-term goals, it's important to realize that life is full of surprises, and more often than not, things don't go as planned.
The desire to have control over your life breeds more unhappiness and disappointed than good. Often the happiest people are those who have learned to let go of their circumstances and take things as they are.
 Sure, sometimes details are important, like when it comes to building a house or getting your golf swing just right. In other cases, though, it's OK to let go of the little things and just enjoy the bigger picture. If you find yourself stressing over details when everyone else seems to be relaxing, it's probably fine to take a step back and stop worrying.


For example, if you're throwing a dinner party, you won't be able to have a good time if you're stressed out about every last napkin being folded to your specifications. Look at the bigger picture: the important thing is that everyone enjoys each other's company.

