 Debt settlement is a method of reducing how much of your debt you must pay creditors. Typically, you stop making payments to your creditors. You can contract with a debt settlement company and send them money each month, which they park in a savings account. After a certain amount of time, they take your lump sum and approach creditors looking to settle your debt.If all goes well, your creditors might be willing to settle your debt for a fraction of what you owe. After accepting the lump sum payment, they release you from the debt.
Your creditors have an incentive to negotiate with you because you can always file bankruptcy. In a bankruptcy, many creditors will be completely wiped out and will receive nothing.
You don’t have to work through a debt settlement company. Instead, you could negotiate on your own. However, debt settlement companies can help you if you don’t like to negotiate or are too busy to try.;
, This is the easiest personal bankruptcy. You complete some paperwork and file it with your nearest bankruptcy court. Within a few months of filing, your unsecured debts will be wiped out.To qualify, you must not make too much money. Instead, you must pass a “means test.” You pass this test if your income is less than your state’s median for a household of your size.Check here to see the medians: https://www.justice.gov/ust/eo/bapcpa/20161101/bci_data/median_income_table.htm.
You might also qualify if you don’t have enough disposable income after expenses. You’ll have to complete a worksheet to check. You can also use an online calculator., Chapter 13 is another personal bankruptcy option available. With this bankruptcy, you create a repayment plan that lasts three to five years. Based on how much you earn, you pay back a portion of your unsecured debt. At the end of the repayment plan, any unpaid debts are discharged.Chapter 13 is available to those who don’t pass the Chapter 7 means test. You will use your disposable income to pay your creditors.
Chapter 13 has some debt limits. For example, you can’t have more than $394,725 in unsecured debt and $1,184,200 in secured debt.Talk to a bankruptcy attorney if you are above these debt limits but also don’t qualify for Chapter 7 under the means test.
 At a minimum, you must pay for filing fees. However, you also need to hire a lawyer so that you can file correctly. A recent study showed that only 60% of those who filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy without a lawyer were approved. By contrast, 95% of those who had a lawyer were approved.


Chapter 7 bankruptcy costs differ depending on where you are located and your attorney’s experience. It costs $335 to file in court, and an attorney will add about $1,250 in fees on top of that.You should call around to find out average fees specific to your area.
It costs $310 to file a Chapter 13, and attorneys will charge an average of $3,000.You can check with your nearest bankruptcy court, which sets “reasonable” fees for Chapter 13 cases. In a Chapter 13, you can pay off some or all of your attorney’s fees as part of your repayment plan.
 These companies should tell you how much they charge before you sign with them. If you find a company you want to hire, then call them up and ask for their fee structure. This information must be disclosed to you.


Generally, debt settlement companies charge either a percentage of your overall debt or a percentage of what they save you.For example, you might have $100,000 in debt. The company successfully reduces your debt to $50,000. Some companies might charge you a percentage of the $100,000 or they might charge you a percentage of what they saved you ($50,000).
 Bankruptcy eliminates more debt than debt settlement. However, the amount you will eliminate depends on your type of debt. Consider the following:


In a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, you can wipe out almost all unsecured debts like credit card debt, payday loans, and medical debt. However, you can’t eliminate secured debts.A secured debt is tied to an asset. The most common are car loans that are secured by the car itself, or a mortgage secured by your home.
In a Chapter 13, you will come up with a repayment plan based on your income and debts. The amount you pay unsecured creditors will vary depending on these factors. In practice, most people pay only a small percentage of their unsecured debt, which is then wiped out at the end of the repayment period. In a Chapter 13, you can also reduce the amount you owe on your car (which is called a “cramdown”).
Debt settlement might be able to eliminate some of your unsecured debt, but it varies. Your creditors are not required to settle debts.Instead, they could sue you for non-payment, which might force you into bankruptcy eventually.
Debt settlement companies generally cannot reduce secured debts, either.
On average, the best debt settlement companies can reduce your unsecured debt around 40% after fees.However, every situation is different, and companies cannot promise anything., Before any lender extends you a loan, they will pull your credit report. Accordingly, you want your credit report to look as good as possible. Unfortunately, your bankruptcies will stay on your reports for years.


A chapter 7 stays on your report for 10 years after you file.Your credit score can fall 150 points or more. The higher your score, the more it will fall.A Chapter 13 stays on your report for seven years after you file. Your credit score will also be lowered.
 Debt settlement negatively affects your credit report because you typically stop making payments to your creditors as you save up money to make a lump sum offer. (If you can save money while continuing to pay your monthly debts, then you probably don’t need to consider debt settlement or bankruptcy in the first place).


By missing payments, your creditors will probably report the debt as in default. If you wait long enough (such as 180 days), the debt gets charged off and sold to collections. This type of negative information will stay on your credit report for years. For example, a collections account can stay on your report for seven years.However, creditors don’t have to report negative information to the credit bureaus. Instead, you might negotiate an agreement where they won’t report it.
You also can swiftly start building up your credit score by making timely payments and staying out of debt.
 In exchange for wiping out unsecured debts, you must give something up: your property. In a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, the trustee can sell your non-exempt property and use the proceeds to pay your creditors.


Your state allows you to exempt certain amounts of property. For example, you might be able to protect up to $6,000 in your car. If your car is worth less than $6,000, the trustee can’t sell it. If it’s worth $8,000, the trustee can sell it and keep $2,000 while you get the rest.
States have many exemptions. You should research your state’s exemptions online since they differ by state.In a Chapter 13, the trustee doesn’t sell any of your property.However, you do have to contribute as much money as you can to your unsecured creditors through the repayment plan.
You probably won’t lose property with debt settlement (unless you stop making payments on secured loans).
 If you are late with mortgage payments, it’s entirely possible the bank will foreclose on you. Because your mortgage is a secured loan, you can’t eliminate it in bankruptcy or get rid of it with debt settlement. However, you do have options for trying to keep your home.


A Chapter 7 will temporarily stop a foreclosure. However, the bank can start the process back up again once you are done with the bankruptcy.
A larger problem in Chapter 7 is that the trustee might sell your home. For example, your home might be worth $200,000 while your mortgage is worth $120,000. There is $80,000 of equity in your home that your trustee could use to pay off your creditors. However, you might be able to shield the equity depending on your state’s exemptions.Some states allow you to exempt an unlimited amount of equity in a home.
In a Chapter 13, the trustee doesn’t sell your home. Like a Chapter 7, a Chapter 13 immediately halts a foreclosure. You can also spread out your unpaid mortgage payments over the course of your repayment plan (three to five years). A Chapter 13 also allows you to remove junior mortgages or liens in some situations.With debt settlement, your only concern will be avoiding foreclosure. You have options outside debt settlement for modifying your mortgage which you should research.
 Bankruptcy and debt settlement are different emotional experiences for people. You might find that you need immediate emotional relief, which bankruptcy can provide.


When you file bankruptcy, an “automatic stay” immediately goes into effect. This stay prevents your creditors from contacting you about your debt. If they do, you can tell your attorney and the creditor will get in trouble with the bankruptcy court. The automatic stay can provide immediate emotional relief. It applies in both Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 cases.With debt settlement, your creditors can (and will) continue to contact you. They can call you at home, send you letters, and even sue you.You won’t find relief from debt collection until you settle your accounts, which could take years.
 The simplest choice is a Chapter 7 bankruptcy. You can file your paperwork and receive a discharge of your debts within a couple months.


A Chapter 13 takes several years to complete. You must stay on top of your finances and make regular payments.
Debt settlement will probably also take several years—at least until you have a large enough lump sum to offer your creditors. Some debt settlement companies might move faster, but you’ll need to have sufficient money saved.
You also need to spend a considerable amount of time researching debt settlement companies. There are many scammers out there. You shouldn’t sign up with a company without researching whether complaints have been filed against them., You might not know which to choose, so you should get a professional’s opinion. Find a credit counselor and set up an appointment. Your credit counselor can explain in more detail whether bankruptcy or debt settlement is right for you. The counselor can also explain other options you might be unaware of.


You can find credit counselors through your credit union, university, local housing authority, or military base. Avoid doing business with anyone who asks for your personal information before giving you details about the services they provide.You can also find credit counselors by visiting the U.S. Trustee’s website here: https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-credit-counseling-agencies-approved-pursuant-11-usc-111. Click on your state.
Credit counselors generally charge only a small fee. Call and ask ahead of time.
 Everyone’s situation is different, and only a qualified bankruptcy attorney can explain how a Chapter 7 or 13 will affect you financially. Obtain a referral to a bankruptcy attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Schedule a consultation and take your financial records to the meeting. The lawyer can’t give you accurate advice unless they understand your financial situation.
Also raise any concerns you might have. For example, you might worry how negative credit information will affect your employment prospects or ability to get a future loan.

