 It's possible that your parents might not know much about what it means to be gay and the process of coming out. You can help them to understand by giving them some helpful information. Offer resources from credible sources.Print out some information to have on-hand during the discussion. Your parents will be processing a lot of information during this discussion, and it may be difficult for them to remember the names of organizations, web addresses, or information you share. Have these available in a hard copy so that your parents can read the material when they've had some time to think about the conversation.
Among the printed materials you may want to provide the website for PFLAG, which is an organization that help families and friends learn to be supportive of those who identify as LGBT.Additionally, you could provide them with the number or website for the LGBT center on your campus or in your community. They will likely have helpful facts for your parents.
 It would be ideal if your parents immediately reacted in a positive, supportive way. However, it might take them a while to reach that place. Many people will go through different stages of emotion. Knowing that ahead of time can help you to deal with that. Your parents may grieve, which is completely normal. They may have had a vision of who you are or what your future will be like, and grieving means they are coming to terms with the loss of this vision. The process of grieving often includes denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.
Understand that grieving is very personal, and you can't predict how long your parents will be in any one stage of the process. Grief is also not linear, meaning they may go forwards and backwards, they may experience multiple stages at once, or they may skip over certain stages entirely.
You may be going through a grieving process yourself during this time, over your parents' reaction and your fear of losing the relationship.
 However the conversation ends, try to leave the door open for future talks. Tell your parents that you all need some time to process your emotions, but that you hope you can talk again soon.If your parents were verbally abusive, you do not need to feel bad about closing the conversation. Remember that no one has the right to make you feel bad about who you are.
Ask your parents if they would be open to attending family counseling/therapy. Look for someone with experience with LGBTQ issues. A mediator can help keep communication clear and respectful.
 Whether or not your parents support you, it is important that you find a circle of people that you can count on. Look for friends and relatives you can trust, and turn to then when you need support.You can also find support at your campus or community LBGT center.
Your community might also have some LGBT friendly churches where you can go and find new sources of support.

