 Of course, only Lone Wolves qualifies as a ranked free-for-all playlist which is available at all times (although Legendary Brawl is available infrequently on Double Experience Weekends), so start there. You'll be playing against a few other players around your own skill level, so be prepared for a quick, furious and closely fought game. The Lone Wolves playlist can be accessed from the Ranked playlists in Matchmaking.;
, They are a hard vehicle to master, so get in as much play time with them as you can. You can only really kill someone with a Mongoose in a head-on collision, so take the time in either a custom game or forge session to get used to taking people out with a Mongoose, dodging attacks and generally moving around the Halo 3 world.
 In Lone Wolves, only High Ground and Isolation are equipped with mongooses, although Legendary Brawl does have other maps with the vehicle on it. These maps come up very infrequently in Lone Wolves, so be prepared when one does - otherwise you may miss your chance.
 They re-spawn pretty quickly, so if one isn't available, it won't be far off. It may pay to wait until all the power weapons have been expended, such as rockets and the spartan laser, so you have a better chance of surviving. On High Ground, mongooses can be found at either end of the map, while on Isolation they are found near the brute shots at either side of the map.
 Never stop driving while you're in a Mongoose; you'll be surprised at the number of times you'll splatter an enemy when turning a blind corner or one who happens to drop in front of you. Keeping on the go also lowers the risk of getting killed. Keep to a safe course, going near highly frequented areas, but alter it every so often to make sure you don't get ambushed.
 For example, a player with rockets, a shotgun or one who is throwing excessive grenades your way is not a good choice. Try finding unaware players who are already preoccupied in a battle or those who are standing still. Anyone which is unaware or who's shields are already depleted are prime candidates.
 This is harder than it sounds - you may have to drive around the map for a while before you get an opportunity and even then, you may fail. Keep at it and remember, you only need one splatter with your Mongoose to unlock the achievement. Once you have splattered someone, you will never have to drive a Mongoose again, so relax.
 It is represented by an image of Mongoose sending a player flying with three stars in the background.

