 You won’t be able to earn their trust back overnight. This doesn’t mean to ignore your friend or stop spending time with them. Instead, just realize that they may not be spilling their heart out to you right away. Show your friend that you’re not going anywhere and that you truly appreciate and treasure their friendship. Eventually, they’ll open back up.Be consistent. Don’t flake on plans or neglect your friend when they may need you. Show that you’re loyal and show that you’re dependable.
 Talking with your friend about what trust means to both of you may help you to ensure that you do not break your friend’s trust again. Try talking with your friend about what behaviors indicate trust to her and what behaviors would be a betrayal of trust. Ask her what she needs from you to feel safe enough to continue your friendship.


For example, your friend might indicate that she defines trustworthy behavior as keeping her secrets, being open and honest with her, and never saying negative things about her behind her back.
Your friend might also define untrustworthy behavior as keeping secrets from her, lying to her, or speaking ill of her behind her back.
Your friend might request that you tell her the next time that someone is gossiping about her, even if you think the news might hurt her feelings.
 If you tell your friend someone else’s secrets, or spend your time gossiping about others, you aren’t demonstrating that you are a person of integrity or loyalty. If you betray other people, your friend may assume you’ll betray them too. The most important thing you can do is to show your friend that you’ve learned from your mistake.


This can be a hard habit to break, but really focus on speaking only positively when you’re around this friend.
 By allowing yourself to be open and vulnerable around your friend, you’ll show them that you trust them. You’ll create an environment of sharing, and that will help them warm back up to you. Trust is mutual, and if you start revealing things to them, they will be more likely to reveal things to you.Exposing secrets and flaws to other people requires courage. By showing courage and trusting in your friend, you’ll hopefully give them that same courage to trust in you.
 Building trust can be a long, challenging process. This is especially true if someone has experienced a significant betrayal.Try to be patient with your friend as you work to regain your friend’s trust.


Try to be as dependable and consistent as possible when working to rebuild your friend’s trust in you. Keep the promises you make and follow through when you say that you will do something.

