 It's best to make sure that you are getting enough sleep (6-8 hours) each night. But sometimes you don't have an entire night to try to improve your skin. Still, resting can have immediate almost immediate effects. Try a quick cat nap. Odds are, if you feel refreshed, you'll look more refreshed., You don't have to purchase pricey skin-care products--just head to your kitchen! It is likely that you have several items in your refrigerator or pantry that can help you achieve gorgeous skin quickly. Try different ingredients and different combinations to see what works best. Some common foods that have major benefits for skin include fruits, vegetables, and oils.Try a sugar scrub. Sugar is an excellent natural exfoliant, and can make your skin appear immediately brighter.Use both brown and white sugars mixed with water for best results.
Grab a potato. Spuds can have amazing--and fast--benefits for your skin. Rub your face with the juice of a raw potato to help combat pigmentation issues.
Make a mask. Try making a paste out of natural ingredients to leave on your skin for 10-15 minutes. Some great choices are honey and oatmeal. Homemade masks can make your skin glow!

, If a pimple is your problem, you can use a simple home remedy to decrease redness and puffiness in the area. Grab an aspirin and dissolve it in water. Put the resulting paste on your spot for a few minutes. After you rinse, you'll see that the redness has decreased. Try an essential oil. These common oils are great to keep in your bathroom for quick skin fixes. Rub a little sandalwood oil on your face to help reduce redness and irritation., A breakout before a big event can definitely put a damper on your plans. If you have some angry-looking pimples, sometimes your best remedy is to do nothing. Avoid picking at spots before leaving the house. Sometimes touching (or popping, or squeezing) can irritate your skin so much that the area will look worse., Try giving yourself an at home facial. Simply boil some water and then put it in a bowl. Lean your face over the bowl for a few minutes (2-3). The steam can remove dirt and open up your pores. Your skin will look fresh, clean, and glowing! If you have access to a sauna (maybe at your gym, or if you are on vacation) you can use that to achieve the same effects. Just make sure not to stay in too long!