 Candles, oil burners, or air fresheners can diffuse a pleasant smell throughout your home quickly.


Light a scented candle or use a scented oil burner if you have one available.
Use plug-in or stand alone air fresheners.
You can also spray air freshener throughout your house, but the smell won't linger long.
 This is strong smelling, but not unpleasant. It comes in hundreds of different scents. To light incense, you will need to light the coated end of an incense stick, holding it by the uncoated end.
Wait for the flame to penetrate through the incense, then blow it out.
The end of the stick should be glowing red and will produce a strongly scented smoke.
 These are jars filled with scented oils. Reed diffusers use bamboo reeds to soak up scented oils. The reeds then diffuse the scent into the air.
These can have a very strong, but pleasant smell.
You can buy reed diffusers at home decoration stores, and they come in many different scents.
 These are packets of dried herbs or scented rice.


Sachets are nice additions to clothing drawers. They will give your clothes a pleasant smell.
Try placing satchels of dried lavender or cinnamon sticks around your home for a more natural aroma.
An easy DIY method here is put dried flower petals or potpourri in a little fabric sack and place these around the home in various places. You can also make a wreaths out of rosemary and hang them throughout the house. , To create a pleasant scent quickly you can use prepackaged dough.


Choose a type of cookie that you think smells good.
This might not be the best solution in summer time when the weather is warm.
Take care not to burn your cookies, or this will cause more bad smells!

, The boiling water will fill the air with the smell of spices.


Fill a pot part way with water and bring to a boil. Add pleasant smelling herbs and spices like cinnamon and cloves. Reduce heat to low and allow to simmer.Make a pot of homemade chai tea.
Boil 3 cups of water and add 20 cardamom pods, 15 whole cloves, 2 cinnamon sticks, and 1 T of fresh ginger.
Simmer for 5 minutes, then add 3 tea bags.
Brew tea and spices, then strain the liquid. Add milk and sugar as needed.

