 'Poopisms' are various common jokes which you may usually find in a YouTube Poop. A good way to find these may be to check what jokes popular "poopers" are using now.


Make sure that the Poopers you check are still making videos, because retired Poopers may use jokes that were hilarious in their day, but have now become outdated or clichéd.;
, For example:


General Poops - Your normal good YTP will obtain a various amount of methods, jokes, sounds, and visuals to keep the viewer interested. In a good YTP, you may see random chopping, distorting the volume of a clip to be extremely loud, sentence mixing/word splicing, visual jokes, colorful and eye popping video effects, and other things all put together to make an enjoyable or even funny video.

These poops have a cult following and are a very controversial subject among the community, and is considered an "either you love it or you don't" thing in YTP.


Dinner Spaghetti Poops - The name of this style of Poop derives from originally popular quotes from the sources of the day. This is a style that is accepted only by Internet meme-loving kids, and is not considered funny or original by the actual YTP community other than the ton of mainstream "meme freaks" and sometimes people who have just started watching YouTube Poops. The best thing to do is stay away from these poops and try not to get caught into their style unless you absolutely find it funny, as only a small group of people actually enjoy them. The best way to tell if a YouTube Poop is a Dinner Spaghetti poop is by looking at the title and thumbnail; it may say something like "The King Must Die" or "Mario is Shoop Da Woop" and mostly uses scenes from the CD-i games. Similar poops to this are Dinner Pingas Poops, which will involve something to do with the king and Dr. Robotnik from the older "Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog" series. These poops should also be avoided if you plan to become well-known.
Some Poops usually have extremely loud segments throughout the whole video. Normally, they are abundantly accompanied by random visual effects to keep the video entertaining.
Flash Pooping involves special effects made with programs such as Adobe Flash and Sony Vegas Pro. This method of pooping has been long retired and is no longer commonly practiced, though there are a few people who still stick to flash like MeeStarStudios. Flash Pooping used to be hated in the past, but people have widely accepted this style in recent years.
Some YouTube Poops are based on RPG fight scenes such as Final Fantasy. These are called YTPRPG's
Some YTP's may have a storyline or a strong sense of continuity. Most notably "The King Gets A Car" and "Morshu Gets A Car."
YouTube Poop Music Videos, more commonly known as YTPMV's, are another style. It can be a lot of things from a "poop" source character's words edited to sound like an existing song to a source character's words slowed and sped up usually to a basic beat to sound like a rhythm. It is recommended that you gain sufficient experience before attempting one of these, and that you know how to read and obtain sheet music (unless you're doing rap).
 Windows Movie Maker, a basic video-editing program that comes with recent versions of Windows until Windows 7, should be sufficient; however for many, it is considered extremely hard to work with and slow. Many other poopers have resorted to using Sony Vegas or Adobe Premiere to make their videos. Beware if you try to illegally obtain it as it is very expensive and can result in lawsuits.
 Some common targets are video game cut-scenes and obscure cartoons from the 1990s. However, almost any source - even a lack of one, in one YouTube Poop's case - can be used. The six things which it is possible to make a YouTube poop from are films, TV shows, online videos, computer games, advertisements and music videos. Children's shows such as "Spongebob" and "Blues Clues" are quite popular.
 Use YouTube video downloading software to obtain the video you wish to edit. The most commonly used is Any Video Converter (AVC).
 This is done using the splice tool often found in video editing software, that allows you to create easily manageable parts. Be careful not to make it too small or it may be more unmanageable.
 These may include duplicating sections (mostly smaller than half a second and with random pitches on each one), adding flashes of images or text (known as "Subliminals"), splicing character's words to make them say new things that they didn't say before (most commonly used are cuss words and sex jokes, though that is considered overused and continues to drop in popularity), raising the volume of a clip to extremely loud levels, or inserting clips from other videos.
 You need to ensure the video is coherent, plays smoothly, and has no mistakes. During this step, you can also add/change new jokes or elements. Try to go through frame-by-frame and search for errors while you edit if you can.
 You can also save it as a project for later editing. To make an even more enjoyable "poop," take the "pooped" video and further "poop" it to make it better. There is a little-known video called "Chain YTP.wmv" that shows a decent example with the whole community taking place, with input from various styles.
 The common naming scheme is "YouTube Poop: Creative Title." This approach is no longer commonly used by the newer "poopers." A lot of people will leave "YouTube Poop" out of the title to make it shorter, although this makes it harder to find and may inadvertently attract "trolls."

, Youtube will automatically add a thumbnail to your video. This is usually a still frame from your video. You want a thumbnail that summarizes your video, and a still frame from the video isn't gonna convey that well.

