 For this project, you will need a pair of shorts, rubber gloves, some water, bleach, and a bit of soap. You will also need a plastic bucket or tub that is large enough to comfortably fit the shorts. If you do not have any shorts, you can make your own by cutting the legs off of a pair of pants.


For a more dramatic ombre effect, consider using darker denim.
A pants hanger is not necessary, but it could help weigh the shorts down as you are dipping them into the bleach.
 Make a mark on the fabric using a washable fabric marking pen.
 The best place to work would be outside, but if this is not possible, you can work indoors with a window open. Having a fan on in the room would also aid ventilation.
 Although you will be working with diluted bleach, you still want to protect your hands. Bleach is caustic and can burn your skin if you are not careful.
 You will need one part liquid bleach and one part water. How much bleach and water you use will depend on the size of your tub and the shorts.
 Dip the shorts 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) below the mark you have made. The bleach will eventually creep up the shorts the rest of the way and reach the mark.Consider folding the shorts in half and clipping them onto a pants hanger. This will allow you to pull them out of the bleach solution more easily. The weight of the hanger will also prevent the shorts from falling into the bleach solution., You should start to see some fading during this time. If you are working with a darker-colored pair of shorts, then you may leave them in the bleach solution for a few more minutes.
 After about ten minutes, take the shorts out of the water and rinse them using fresh, cool water. This will make the fading smoother.If you wish to make dip-dyed shorts, do not take them out of the bleach solution. Simply leave them in the bleach solution until you have achieved the lightness you want. Dip-dyed shorts have a more defined line than ombre shorts.
 For a more dramatic ombre effect, put the shorts back into the bleach solution, but only partway. Do not dip them as deeply as you did the first time. This way, you are lightening the bottom portion of the shorts even more, thus creating the ombre effect.
 Squeeze the shorts to get the extra moisture out, and rinse them using soap and cool water until you cannot smell the bleach anymore. The soap will help prevent the bleach from making yellow stains.
 You can do this by leaving them out in the sun, or by tossing them into the dryer.

