 Sticky notes can be very helpful for organizing yourself and your house in a number of ways. If you find that you have developed a confusing tangle of cables behind your TV or computer, and it always takes some painstaking work to discover what cables is for what, sticky notes can help.


Tear or cut the note down so you just have the adhesive strip left, and then write down the name of the appliance of each cable, “TV,” “DVD,” “Stereo,” etc.
Then wrap the label around the appropriate cable, taking care to fasten it tightly in a ring around the wire., If you live in a shared house, you may want to label your food to make sure that none of your housemates eat it. Sticky notes are ideal for this as you can quickly and easily label your supplies just by writing your name on a note and attaching it to your eggs, milk, or anything else.


Try to have some restraint when it comes to labelling food. Labelling absolutely everything can seem somewhat over the top.
Consider just labelling a few key things that could easily be mistaken for somebody else’s.
 Sticky notes are a convenient and easy way to leave notes and reminders for people you live or work with. Write down a reminder to pick some milk on the way home from work, or that the electricity bill is overdue, and stick it somewhere prominent.


Research has shown that people are actually more likely to respond to, and act on, a message or request made on a sticky note than communicated in some other ways.It is thought that sticky notes work so well because it is more personalised. It is also harder to ignore as it sticks out from its environment.
Seeing a note stuck on the fridge may make you want to deal with it so you can take it down, and free the fridge door of mess and clutter., You can use sticky notes to make a colourful, visually engaging, and flexible plan or schedule for everything from work, to study, to household chores. If you are making a schedule for everybody’s weekly chores, you can write up each chore on a note and arrange them in groups. Once a task has been completed, the person responsible can tear down the note.


You can use notes to make meal plan so you know what you will be eating through the week. This could also help you to realise if you need to buy any ingredients.
Using sticky notes to make schedules and plans allows you to move around the meals or tasks. You can easily reassign a task to somebody else, or change the meal plan.