 Prebiotic foods help to support gut bacteria and essentially feed your gut microbiome. You should try to consume prebiotic food at least twice a day, including:Garlic.
Leeks.
Asparagus.
Wheat bran.
Dandelion greens.
Chicory root.
Jerusalem artichoke.
Baked wheat flour.
Bananas.;
, Fermented foods help to support and replenish your gut microbiome. Look for fermented foods that are unpasteurized, as pasteurization actually removes bacteria or the probiotics from foods. Try to have more fermented foods like:Tempeh, which is fermented soybeans.
Kimchee, which is fermented Korean cabbage.
Miso, which is fermented barley paste.
Sauerkraut, which is fermented cabbage.
Yogurt, which is fermented milk with active probiotic bacteria.
Kefir, which is fermented milk.
Kombucha, which is green or black fermented tea with fruit and spices.
You should also eat probiotic foods like yogurt, at least 1 cup a day, and a few slices of aged cheese like Roquefort, Bleu, Brie, Feta and Gruyére a day. You should try to have at least one serving a day of kimchee and 6-8 ounces of Kefir a day.
 Probiotic foods like fruits and vegetables contribute to a healthy gut microbiome and will provide new, diverse bacteria to help replenish your gut microbiome.Include leafy green vegetables in your diet, such as kale, spinach, Swiss chard, mustard greens, collard greens, beets, and turnips.
You should also eat vegetables like broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower to help support the growth of healthy bacteria in your microbiome. These vegetables also have anti-inflammatory properties and contain glucosinolates, which are sulfur-containing chemicals that help to form indoles, nitriles, thiocyanates, and isothiocyanates. These substances have been found to inhibit certain cancers, including bladder cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer, liver cancer, and stomach cancer in lab animals. Consuming probiotic vegetables can also help to prevent the development of cancer in humans.
 Beans are high in fiber and they also release short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), which help to strengthen and support your gut bacteria. They also help your body absorb many nutrients, which can contribute to weight loss., Fiber helps to increase the regularity of your bowel movements, removes metabolic and toxic wastes from your body and provides support for your gut microbiome.


Have more high fiber foods like whole grains, and fruits and vegetables, especially fruits where you can eat the rind, such as apples, plums, prunes, peaches, and nectarines.
Aim to eat 20-35 grams of fiber a day. Keep in mind consuming too much fiber can cause gas, so try to have a reasonable amount every day as part of a healthy diet.

