 Middle school is the time where you are growing taller and stronger, so be sure to fill yourself with healthy foods and nutrients. Eat lots of fruits and vegetables and also eat lots protein. Chicken, fish, eggs, tofu, and nuts are all excellent sources of protein. Be sure to drink at least 6 glasses of water a day and cut down on junk food and unhealthy drinks.;
, Try to join school sports, that way you can have fun, meet new people, and get active and healthier. Badminton, volleyball, cheer, track and field, soccer, basketball, the options are endless! Try to go for regular walks, bikes, or any method of transportation that requires you to be active around your area and get plenty of vitamin D and fresh air! If you want, you could do push-ups, sit-ups, crunches, lunges, squats, pull-ups, etc. and also lift weights.
 Take a shower every day and use a light but sweet scented body wash and a loofah. Also, use a moisturising and sweet body lotion after showering or bathing. Brush your teeth twice a day and floss once at night. Be sure to wear deodorant if you think necessary and wear clean, fresh clothes and underwear.
 Don't wash your hair every day, wash it every two to three days. Once your hair starts looking greasy, try putting it in a bun or braid. If it is unbearably oily, dry shampoo is your life saver. Choose a good shampoo and conditioner. When shampooing, make sure to use your finger tips to massage your scalp. Don't apply conditioner on your scalp. Don't over-bleach or dye your hair and try to avoid using heat tools. Air drying and heat-free hairstyles are the way to go.  Pick a good haircut, maybe bangs, layers, highlights, shoulder-length hair, etc.  Style it differently and experiment.
 Wash your face twice a day and use a gentle cleanser. Make sure to apply a moisturising cream or oil to your face after cleansing it or taking a shower/bath. Wear sunscreen on sunny days to avoid wrinkles when you get older or sun burns. Make sure to get at least 8 hours of sleep a night. Exfoliate once a week if you wish and try using face masks to rejuvenate your skin.
 Wear clothes that you find appealing on yourself and that flatter your body. Stick to solid colours and cool designs like plaid or stripes. Flowy shorts, oversized shirts, Uggs, cardigans, loose tank tops, and black leggings are very comfortable. Try to get a cute and warm coat for the winter. Make sure you have at least one pair of runners, flip flops, boots, flats, and high heels for every occasion. Jeans can also make you look really good.
 You're at school to learn, not socialize. It is fun to socialize on the side, but make your first priority school, getting good grades, and having good education & future. Try your best and be sure to study for tests, do your homework, listen in class, ask questions if you don't understand, and stay organized.
 Join school teams and clubs. It's a great way to get known, meet new people with common interests, discover a new hobby or talent, etc. Even if you don't think you'll be that good at something, never be afraid to try. Try your best. If you don't like it, you can drop it. Try to have diverse interests.
 You don't have to be extremely outgoing or bright, but try to be friendly and kind to everyone. Don't get caught in drama or gossip, it is fun, but in the long run, you'll be hurting yourself or other people. Make eye contact and smile and laugh when you feel like it. Offer sincere compliments and favours without being asked. Be a good listener. When someone is talking, give your undivided attention to them and don't look at something or someone else.  Remember, don't be rude to people who you don't like or don't like you, simply ignore them.
 These are the people who you can lean on when you're having a hard time, who you can laugh with, cry with, go through thick and thin with. These friends will automatically click with you, and you'll know who these friends are.
 There are a lot of shy people out there. If you aren't the most outgoing or extrovert person out there, don't worry. Instead of overwhelming yourself with making tons of friends at once, take it one friend at a time. Try to say "Hi" to at least one person a day so that they aren't so afraid of talking to you. Don't look at the floor or cross your arms. Ask questions about other people, they will fall in love with you. It will naturally happen if you keep on interacting with them.
 Don't worry about being popular, relax and enjoy yourself. These three years will fly by so fast and before you know it, you'll be starting high school with new people, new experiences, new everything. You are so young. You still haven't graduated, experienced getting your license, marrying, having kids, living with the love of your life for your whole life, having grandchildren, so enjoy your pre-teen years. After high school, you'll be off to university and after university you'll create your own family. It's a long time, but it happens so fast that it can catch you off guard. Just smile and be happy.