 It's important to remember that you can't control other people and you can't stop them from laughing. If someone was laughing at your haircut so you wear a hat, then they may just laugh at the hat, or find something else to pick apart. Trying to anticipate how someone will react, or making all your decisions based on what you think someone else will find acceptable, is exhausting and impossible. Shift your focus from what you can't control (the actions and opinions of other people) and start paying attention to what you can control — your own actions, feelings, and your opinion of yourself.


Choose to treat yourself with kindness and compassion. You have control over what your self-talk sounds like, and it's important that you behave like your own best friend. If you find yourself engaging in negative self-talk, challenge it.
You can also control your own actions, how you treat others, and what you will accept from other people. You can choose to show the people who laugh at you kindness despite their rude behavior. You can also choose to walk away from their taunts.
 If the person laughing behind your back is someone you considered a friend, try finding more positive people to keep in your life. Take a look at what matters most to you, and find people with similar values regarding friendship.Try joining school groups or local meetups to meet people with the same interests as you.
Look at options like book clubs and dinner groups to meet other people outside of your established social network.
Spend more time with the people who have supported and helped you. Focus on bettering your friendships with them rather than surrounding yourself with new people.
 Try changing your relationship with your antagonizer by offering them friendship and help. Offer to be there for them, and know that if they reject your help that you did all you could to create a positive relationship.


Look at your antagonizer’s insecurities, and offer to help them address them.
If, for example, your antagonizer laughs at you for getting good grades or caring too much about your job, offer to help them study or get started on a work project.

