 For each workout determine the amount of time to be spent and what type of running you plan to do. For the longer term, make a plan, add variety by having a different running workout each time and tweak your routine, when necessary.;
, Space your sessions to allow for recovery. A healthy mental outlook is important too, exercise should not be done fanatically - take the time to recover with active rest. Read "Fitness Without Exercise" by Porter and Samford. A sample, revolving routine might be:


Session One - Jogging in Place with four Wind Sprints and First Steps.
Session Two - Front and Backs and Outside Jogging.
Session Three - Side Ladder Drills (with an imaginary ladder) and Jogging in Place with Three Wind Sprints.
Session Four - Side Gliding, Karaoke, Back Circling and an Outside Walking.
Repeat Session One.
 The workouts could be for fitness, to work out stress, for speed, for agility, to have fun, to build strength etc. Complement your life style with your routine, and for ideas examine the training and results for the different track and field and other athletes.
 Read about sports injuries and the surfaces that athletes play on. Carpet can be very grippy and not allow pivoting depending on your footwear.
 Build up to running in place by doing jogging in place for a few months first. Running in place can only be done on the balls of your feet and will add to your speed and give you boundless energy. Vary your workout with time and intensity. Use music or clock to time yourself and turn on the television and do jogging in place during the commercial breaks. Besides time and intensity variations, use different running stances not just running stances but stances of the sports you enjoy.
 Perform this movement by running quickly for a couple yards, stopping quickly, running backwards a couple yards, stopping quickly, running forward a couple yards, and keep repeating this for whatever amount of time you choose. Be conservative in the distance you choose, and be aware, to avoid running into walls, plants, and other objects. At times, try this: Run backwards and walk forward. Count your steps when running backwards. Running backwards is great for correcting the muscular imbalance, below and above the waist, that results from walking.
 Watch the many ladder drills on internet sites, like You Tube and Google Video, and do them on an imaginary ladder. Running in all directions will shape your leg muscles in all areas and prepares you to move in all directions. After doing the basic, side ladder drill, add other side movements like the glide and karaoke.
 This is great for a small workout area and is very enjoyable to do. With this movement, you will not move away from where you are standing and basically involves taking a step away, not planting that step and returning back to the start position. Alternating steps are the most natural and you could do this:


Tap your left foot forward, tap your right foot forward, and repeat several times,
Next tap your left foot sidewards, tap your right foot sidewards, tap your left foot sidewards, and repeat several times.
Next tap your left foot forward, tap your right foot backward, tap your left foot forward, and repeat several times. This is a natural movement.
Add toe taps to all directions and constantly change them like in dancing. Start with the forward, side and back toe taps, and later add some diagonal taps too.
Exaggerate the steps and add upper body movements for balance. Be creative. Do first steps quick to have a feeling of weightlessness.
 This running drill teaches you acceleration, deceleration and pivoting. A common variation of this drill is to crouch down and touch the floor, with your hand, at the turnaround.
 At an oval, joggers run in the same direction, notice the difference by running indoors in the other direction also.

