 You should not take the ACT before your junior year of high school. This is because the material on the exam includes many subjects that are not taught until 11th grade. Furthermore, if you take the exam in your junior year, you will be able to retake the test again for a higher score.


The test is offered six times a year. You can take it in September, October, December, February, April, or June.
The earliest you should take the exam is in June before your junior year, and only if you have already taken courses that cover the material tested on the ACT.
Most juniors take the exam for the first time in the spring of their junior year., Prep books contain tips on taking the exam as well as practice exams based on ACTs from previous years. When choosing a prep book, get one from a reputable brand, such as Kaplan or McGraw-Hill, or buy the ACT’s official study guide.


Some prep books offer activation codes or CDs with additional resources.
You not necessarily need to buy study materials. Some websites, including the ACT website, have free practice exams and questions.
 There are many courses offered both online and in person that can help you learn how to master the ACT. These courses teach study skills, test taking tips, and the material found on the exam. These courses may last over the course of several weeks, or you may just have to go for a few days.


Many high schools offer ACT courses. These may be available for free or for a small fee. Ask your teachers or administration if your school or another local high school offers these courses.
Some tutoring centers also offer test prep courses. You may even be able to find an online course.
 Set aside time each day to study. Determine in advance how long you will study for, and do not stop until you have reached the time limit.You may want to study a different section on different days of the week. When you get closer to the date of the exam, schedule in enough time to do a full practice exam once a week.


You may want to schedule a certain time of day when you practice for the exam. For example, you may want to run through your flash cards after you wake up or do ten questions before you go to sleep.
You may be able to sign up for a question of the day service. There are both apps and email subscriptions that will send you a practice question every day.
 While you are studying, you should make sure that you have as few distractions as possible. Try to reduce noise. Find some time to yourself, and do not stop until you have studied for a certain amount of time.


If other people in your household may interrupt while you study, try hanging a sign on the door that says “Do Not Disturb! Studying for the ACT exam.”
Turn your cell phone off, and do not take calls or texts during your study time.
If you study better with complete quiet, turn off the TV and radio. If you find you study better with music, put some on light instrumental music, such as classical music.
 Look for a quiet, private room where you can study in peace. Try sitting at a desk with only the essential things you need, such as the ACT book, a notebook, pencil, a computer and any test software you have. Do not lay on the bed or be in a position where you could easily fall asleep.


If studying at home is too distracting, try going to a school or public library.
 During the exam, you will have a limited amount of time for each section. You should make sure that you can answer all or most of the questions within that time period. To do this, time yourself taking practice exams. Limit yourself to the same amount of time per section as you have on the exam.The ACT offers free practice exams on their website.
If you having trouble finishing a particular section, practice more of those type of questions. For example, if you cannot do the math problems in time, try doing math equations within a minute each.
You have about 30 seconds per question in the English section; one minute per question in the math section; and just under a minute per question in the reading and science sections.

