 Use some glue to attach five of the paper quilling strips together.Place a dot of glue on the end of each strip and use this to connect it to the next strip. You will need the extra material to make a dome or cone.
 Begin coiling the paper quilling using a quilling needle. Wrap the quilling paper around the needle over and over again until it forms a tight coil.It is important to create a tight coil when making quilling domes and cones. This will look better and be more secure than a loose coil.
 Once you have formed the coil, you can begin to push out the center to shape the coil into a dome or cone. Use a quilling mini mold to shape the quilling into a dome shape. Press the coil over the mini mold to form it into a dome.If you don’t have a mini mold, then you can also use a thimble to help you shape the coil. Or, you can also just use your fingertip, but your results may not be as precise.
 The colors you use can change the outcome of your project. Quilling comes in many different colors, so you have lots of options. Try choosing a few different types of quilling in coordinating colors.

For example, you could choose black and white quilling, pink and green, or yellow and blue. Opt for colors that look good to you and that will work for your design.
Consider what you want your design to look like as well. For example, if you are making heart shapes, then opt for pinks and reds.If you are making a cone for a Christmas tree, then use green quilling.
 You will need to use a quilling needle to coil your quilling. Wrap the end of the quilling around the quilling needle and then begin to turn the needle to wrap the quilling around it. Keep turning the needle and coiling the quilling until you reach the end.To make your coils larger, use multiple strips of quilling. Just glue the ends of the strips together before coiling them.
For flat quilling designs, you can coil the quilling tightly or leave it loose to create different designs.
 You can shape the flat coils into different shapes by pressing on the edges. You can leave the quilling in a circle, squeeze the sides to make it into an oval, or press on all four sides to shape it into a square.You can make a heart shaped quilling design by making two coils, loosening them slightly, and then pinching them on the ends to make a teardrop design. Then, glue the two pieces together along the flat edges to create a heart shape.You could even try using a mold to help you shape your quilling. For example, if you have a small star shaped cookie cutter, then you could place a loose spiral into the mold and push out towards the edges of the mold to form the shape into a star.
 You can use puffy paint or some regular acrylic paint to add interest to your quilling earring pieces. Try adding some polka dots around the edges or paint over the entire piece with a solid color.

If you want to add some fine details, you can try painting them onto the quilling pieces, such as a word or initials or some small flowers. Use a fine tipped paint brush to make it easier to create small designs on your quilling pieces.
 You can also glue some beads and/or sequins onto your quilling piece. Try adding a border of beads to the bottom edge of a dome shaped quilling piece. Or, add some sequins around the top and side edges of a flat quilling piece to add some sparkle.You can try adding other notions to your quilling designs as well. For example, if you think some small pom poms would look cute, then glue some on. If you want to add a button, go for it!

, After you have made your quilling pieces for the earrings, you can either glue them together or string them together. The way that you connect your pieces depends on the types of pieces you have created.

For example, if you have made a couple of different sized cones or domes, then it would probably be better to string them together using a needle and some nylon thread.
For flat pieces, it may be easier to glue them together and let them sit until they are dry. You can glue together different sized coils together inside of a large coil, or glue a few different pieces together to form a shape, such as a flower.However, you will still need to add a string to attach the quilling earring pieces to the earring hooks.
If you have multiple pieces that you want to hang from the earrings, make sure to string them together in the order you want them to appear.
 When you are satisfied with your quilling earring pieces, you can either attach them to earring hooks or studs.

To finish hook style quilling earrings, insert the top part of the string through the hoop and tie it to secure the quilling pieces to the earring hook.
To finish earrings on studs, glue the quilling piece to the earring stud and allow to dry for several hours or overnight.

