 You need to place your fish in water from the tank, not from the tap. Fill your transport container with water from the top of the tank. This water is the cleanest. If you take water from the bottom, you will be placing waste into the small container and potential exposing them to bacteria that has settled at the bottom., You shouldn’t add your fish’s favorite rock or plant into the bucket or container with them. The fish should be the only thing in the bucket, except the water from your tank. Any extra items may move around and harm your fish., Fish need to stay at their normal water temperature. Any fluctuations in water temperature can cause your fish to get sick. Try to keep your fish’s water the same temperature of their normal aquarium. This means you should transport them in the part of your vehicle where you can use the air conditioner or heater.You can also use insulation to the transportation container. This can help regulate the temperature.
Check the fish’s temperature to make sure it doesn’t get too hot or too cold.
 Transporting the fish in a darker state can help keep them from getting too stressful. Fish are active and awake during the day when it is bright outside. At night, they are less active. Place something over the fish if they are in a container where they can get light during the day.For example, you may place a sheet or rug over the container.
 Travel is very stressful for your fish, so you don’t want to do anything to cause more stress. Don’t worry about opening bags or containers to feed your fish. This also helps reduce the need for elimination, which can make the water it is traveling in dirty., If you transported fish in bucket, you can pour them and the water directly into the tank. You may also want to use a net to move them from the bucket to the tank.If you transported your fish in bags, place the bags on top of the water and let them float. This helps regulate the temperature of the water in the bags. When the temperature of the water in both are similar, you can pour the fish into the tank.

