 Locate the Box app on your iPad and tap on it to launch it. It’s the app icon with a blue background and the word box over it.
 If you’re already logged in, you may skip this step. Otherwise, tap the “Log in” button found on the welcome screen. Input your Box account e-mail address and password. Tap the “Log in” button to proceed.


The app will initialize and connect with your Box account online.
 Navigate through your Box folders by tapping on them until you’re in the folder you want to share or until you’ve found the file you want to share.


If you’re sharing a file, open it first by tapping on it.
 On the upper-right side of the screen are some menu icons. Locate the second to the last one. It’s a button icon with three connecting dots. Tap on this to bring up the “Share this folder” or “Share this file” menu.


Tap on “Send Link via Messages.” A “Creating your link” progress message will appear in the middle of the app.
 A Share Link menu will appear. Here you can define the access restrictions for your sharing. Start with the access recipients. Set the Link Access to either “Collaborators Only” or “Open Access.”


“Collaborators Only” allows only those people set as collaborators for this folder to gain access
“Open Access” allows anyone with the link access the file or folder.
 Still under the Share Link menu, the second setting is for “Can Download.” Toggle this on or off to allow users to download files using the share link.
 The last setting in the Share Link menu is for expiry. Set an expiry date when your share link will be available with the Expire On field. If you do decide to use this, your share link will be made invalid after the expiry date.
 Once you’re done with your sharing parameters, tap on “Next” found on the top-right part of the Share Link menu. The Messages app will be launched, with the share link already embedded on the first message. Complete your message by inputting the numbers or names of your recipients.


The Messages app uses your address book to get the appropriate contacts’ numbers.
 When you’re done with your message composition, tap “Send” right beside your message box. Your message with your share link will be sent to your recipients.