 Schedule date nights and other activities so that you spend time together. Have conversations with each other about things that are interesting to both of you., Spend some time snuggling every morning. Physical closeness can make you feel more affectionate and connected with your boyfriend. Hold hands and give each other hugs frequently., Help him focus and hear your requests by making eye contact. Touch his arm when you’re talking with him. Making physical contact can help him keep his attention on what you’re saying., People with ADHD often need to have their things in a particular order or place. If he expects his keys to be in a certain place every night, don’t move them.Having consistent routines is part of managing ADHD effectively, so don’t disrupt his efforts to do this.
 People with ADHD often have trouble with organization and managing time. This can be especially frustrating to a person without ADHD. For example, your boyfriend might be forgetful or show up late for events. Help your boyfriend get more organized by talking about your schedules frequently and keeping a central calendar. Buy him a daily planner with plenty of space for writing daily notes., Your boyfriend is likely to have rapid mood changes. Knowing what to do and how to respond to these mood changes will help you weather them better. Help him find activities that shift focus away from the bad mood, such as talking, exercising or going to a movie.
 One of the biggest challenges in a relationship with one ADHD partner is the tendency of the other partner to take charge. Because it can be hard for someone with ADHD to manage time and stay organized and focused, the non-ADHD person may feel it’s easier to take charge. But this can lead to resentment and stress.Use “I” statements to communicate your feelings.Tell your partner how you’re feeling in a way that takes responsibility for your own reactions. These types of statements do not blame your partner. For example, say, “I feel like I’ve got more on my plate than I can handle right now. Would you be able to take the car to the mechanic?”
Stop nagging your boyfriend. Instead, focus on communicating positively and optimistically. Recognize that your boyfriend is dealing with a challenging disorder and is trying to overcome this obstacle.
Divide up chores according to each other’s strengths. Avoid frustration by doing the chores that are better suited to your abilities, and let your partner do the chores that are better suited to his abilities. For example, you might take over paying the bills and grocery shopping, while he can mow the lawn and do laundry., Your boyfriend may have emotional outbursts, impulsive behavior, and forgetfulness. As a result, you might feel unloved, underappreciated or taken for granted. But he is not going out of his way to make you feel these emotions. His ADHD makes it difficult to control certain behaviors. He can learn coping techniques to help with this, but be sure not to take his reactions personally. Remember that his ADHD is a very real disorder that changes how he might otherwise act.