 Bichons are small so you can bath them in a deep sink. You can also use a regular bathtub or a kiddie pool if you prefer. Bichons have a lot of fur so make sure it’s a surface you can easily clean afterwards.


The maneuverability and water pressure of a hose will all you to more thoroughly saturate the pup’s dense coat. It will be especially difficult to remove the shampoo and conditioner without it.;
, If you are using a tub with a slick surface like a sink, your bichon may slip and slide around during the bath. Since the pup will likely try to run away during the bath, they could slip and hurt themselves or end up inhaling water unless you have a rubber surface underneath that will prevent this.You can find a viable rubber mat at any

, Bichons have a lot of hair in their inner ears. It will act as a sponge during the bath and be difficult to dry afterwards. If water leaks into their ear canals, it could cause an infection. Gently place a single cotton ball in each ear before the bath begins and remove them after you dry the pup off., Bichons are prone to dry, sensitive skin so you’ll want a shampoo that is specifically designed for dogs like this. Most shampoos will include a list of breeds that they are ideal for on the label. The dense fur on Bichons tends to get tangled and bristled so use a dog conditioner that moisturizes.You can find these shampoos and conditioners at any pet store and some major retailers like Walmart.
 A professional groomer will bathe your puppy for you. They will also offer services to trim its hair, pumice its paws, and brush its teeth. Professional groomers will vary widely in price but the bath will usually cost at least $30 for a small dog like a Bichon with additional charges for other services., Lift the dog and place it in the tub. Fill the tub with lukewarm water. Fill it so that the water rises up to the top of the dog’s legs. Wet all of its fur before you apply shampoo.
 Hold your dog with one hand so it doesn’t jump out of the tub and apply the shampoo directly to the fur. Place a dollop on each side of the torso to start and rub it in so that it lathers and covers all of the dog’s fur. Try to massage the shampoo deep into the fur. Apply more as needed., Use either a hose or a jug to pour warm water over the pup. Do this several times until all of the suds are out. You may need to hold the dog tight as it may squirm and try to get away.
 Apply the conditioner the same way as the shampoo. Start with a small dollop and add more until you thoroughly saturate the fur. Leave it in the fur for about five minutes before rinsing it out thoroughly. Wrap the pup in a soft towel and rub it all over to dry the fur. You can also use a blow dryer on a low heat setting to create a puffy look.

