 Not all of us will be born with a naturally chiseled jaw. If this is the case, growing a beard is arguably the best way of adding fullness your face.Also consider the general size of your face. Beards tend to make faces look smaller by contrast; if you have a larger face, growing a beard might help to even things out. On the contrary, if your face is naturally small, you'll want to keep your beard short and trim.
 One mistake guys make very often is to trim their neckline too high, usually matching the arc of their jaw. This has the effect of making the jaw look weaker and less defined. If you tend to trim your beard with a higher neck line, try growing it lower than you usually would, all the while making sure the line is well-defined and reasonably well-maintained.


If you're having any trouble deciding where your beard's neckline should be, try to imagine a line running in an arc from one ear to the other. This should extend well below the jawline, and should give it a look of greater fullness., It's a general rule in the fashion world that any stylistic choice are affected by its surrounding areas. Shirts aren't generally associated or picked based on the shape of one's face, but it becomes more important if you're trying to emphasize your jawline.Oval faces have their widest point at the cheekbones, and are long compared to other face shapes. If you have an ovoid face, consider yourself fortunate; your face is very versatile and can suit a range of styles.
Those with round faces will want to pick clothes that make the face look longer. Tight-collared shirts are a great way to go about this.Angular faces (a box shape) suffer an opposite concern than the round faces; if your face is angular, you'll want to add a look of fullness to it. Wide-spread shirt collars can be a good help in this regard.
 Though it may seem the manly thing to do to let your beard run amok and grow freely, the look of your beard will be much more effective and impressive if you take the short amount of time each day it takes to keep it looking its best. This includes shaving hair that falls below your neckline, and trimming errant hairs that get too long. This controlled look for your beard will do wonders for your jawline., Skin blemishes and acne are quick and easy killers for hopes of a strong jawline. Even if you don't suffer these problems, just about every face can do with some added care. Regularly moisturizing is a great way to bring the look of your face up a notch.Moisturize with an oil-free solvent and give your face a cleanse every couple of days. Change won't come overnight, but you will see improvements as weeks go by.


This is all the more important if you have an existing skin condition, like acne.

