 If you purchase a breastfeeding pillow before your baby arrives you can use it to provide relief from pains and discomforts during pregnancy.


Tucking the breastfeeding pillow between bent knees during sleep offers lower back support. You can also tuck the pillow behind your back to help you stay on your side while sleeping.If you have pregnancy related heartburn, you can use an extra pillow to raise your head while sleeping., Tummy time is a routine in which a baby is placed on his tummy for a little bit each day. The purpose of tummy time is to strengthen a baby's neck muscles and teach him how to push, roll over, crawl, and stand. Breastfeeding pillows can be used to enhance tummy time.


Most baby's sleep on their backs, in accordance to standards laid out by the American Academy of Pediatricians in 1992. This is to prevent sudden infant death syndrome. As babies spend so much time on their backs rather than their stomachs, tummy time can be stressful. Babies might resist being forced on their stomach.A breastfeeding pillow can help ease your baby into tummy time. Propping a baby up on a pillow can give him a new perspective and allow him to see more of a room. This can distract him from the discomfort of being on his belly, and prevent crying and distress during tummy time.Make sure you don't prop your baby up using a breastfeeding pillow before 3 or 4 months, as his neck muscles might not be strong enough for this to be safe until then., Breastfeeding pillows can be a great tool, but they do not work for every mother.


Sometimes, a breastfeeding pillow can result in your baby having difficulty latching. Some babies do not take to breastfeeding and prefer to be held, resulting in them becoming fussy or difficult to nurse when using the pillow.Nursing pillows are bulky and can be difficult to take from place to place. Some others also report having to lean over the pillows and experiencing back aches because of this.Remember, a nursing pillow is designed to provide you added comfort. Some women find the pillow to be helpful to them and their babies, but if a breastfeeding pillow causes you discomfort it's not a necessity. Old fashioned breastfeeding is fine if you don't feel comfortable with a breastfeeding pillow.

