 This is because you must have one of the specific cancer-predisposing strains of HPV, which is a sexually transmitted infection, in order to (down the road) develop an HPV related cancer.


The more sexual partners you have in your life, the greater your chance of contracting one of the cancer-predisposing strains of HPV.
Also, the more sexual partners that the person you are having sex with has had, the "higher risk" they are as a partner because they then carry a heightened risk of being infected themselves.;
, Your best bet is to always use a condom, to reduce the amount of genital contact and bodily fluids exchanged between you and your partner.


Note that men who have sex with men are at higher risk. This is a risk factor to be aware of; however, it is one that cannot be changed as you cannot change your sexuality.
People who have other health problems leading to a compromised immune system (such as those with HIV/AIDS) are also at higher risk.
 Therefore, if you can quit smoking, you will effectively reduce your risk. If you are interested in quitting smoking and would like support, book an appointment with your family doctor.


Your family doctor can offer you nicotine replacement options to help to tame your cravings as you quit smoking.
Your doctor may also offer you medications (such as Wellbutrin or Bupropion) that can be helpful in the process of quitting smoking.
 However, preventing unwanted pregnancies is key, so the benefits of taking birth control pills for you may very well outweigh the cons. Another option to consider, however, is getting an IUD (intrauterine device) inserted, as an IUD actually reduces your risk of HPV related factors (it seems to have a protective effect, for reasons that are not yet fully understood by the medical community).


In terms of IUDs, you can either opt for the Mirena IUD (which is hormone based), or the copper IUD (which is not hormone-based). Your doctor can go over each of these options with you in detail, if you are interested.
If you do opt for standard birth control pills, your risk for developing HPV related cancers goes back to normal 10 years after stopping the pills. Therefore, taking the pills for a short time in your younger years may not lead to problems down the road.
 This is because your immune system is busy handling other infections, and thus less able to prevent HPV.


Ask your doctor for regular STI testing, and treat any infections that are picked up immediately.
This will optimize your sexual health and reduce your risk of HPV and subsequent HPV related cancers.
 This may be related to the fact that women with more pregnancies are more likely to have had unprotected sexual intercourse (thus increasing their chances of contracting HPV); it has also been hypothesized to be related to the hormones during pregnancy, which may possibly increase your risk of cervical cancer.


Another risk factor for HPV related cancers is DES (Diethylstilbestrol).
This is a hormonal drug that used to be given in hopes of preventing miscarriage; it is no longer prescribed by physicians due to the risk.
 Prioritize your overall health and wellbeing, and you will reap the benefits down the road.

