 Before attempting to make any changes to the computer, make sure you shut it off and remove the power cord from the back. Unplug any other external cables from the computer as well. When you are ready to begin working, touch a piece of metal to discharge any static electricity from your body.
 Place a clean cloth on top of a clean, flat work surface. The cloth will help prevent any scratches to the computer's body. Make sure that you are working in a relatively dust-free environment, as even small amounts of dust can damage the computer's delicate electronic components., Place the blade of a thin, flexible putty knife into the gap between the metal shell and plastic base of the computer. Do this on a side of the computer that is adjacent to the back side (the side with the ports). Once the blade has been partially inserted, apply light outward pressure to the putty knife to pry the shell away from the base. You will hear some clicking sounds as the plastic latches disengage., Once the plastic latches have disengaged on the first side, repeat the process above on the other side of the computer, applying gentle pressure with the putty knife to remove the shell. You may need to repeat the process a third time on the edge opposite the ports., Once the base has been loosened from the shell, place your thumbs on the side of the computer with the ports. Apply gentle upward pressure to disengage the last latches, and carefully lift the entire interior assembly out of the metal shell. Set the shell aside, and place the interior gently onto the cloth., The interior of the Mac Mini consist of 2 main pieces, which are connected in 3 places.

First, remove the Airport wireless antenna. This is a pentagonal-shaped plastic piece that sits against the corner of the optical drive. To remove it, place your pointer finger on top of it to steady it, and pinch the tubular base between your thumb and middle finger. Apply gentle pressure to the base and lift the antenna up and out of the assembly.
Next, remove the hard drive sensor cable. This cable is made from 2 small black wires, and is located on the same side of the assembly as the optical drive opening. To disconnect it, grab the small gray plug at the end of the wires and pull it gently from its port. Do not attempt to remove the plug by pulling the wires themselves.
Finally, disconnect the flexible cable running between the audio board and the interconnect board. This cable is located on the side of the computer with the external ports, and looks like a wide, thin orange band. To disconnect it, pinch it between your fingers on the side nearest to the optical drive, and pull it out.
 In each corner of the internal frame, there is a small screw attaching the 2 pieces together. Use a #0 Phillips-head screwdriver to remove these screws. Note that 1 screw is longer than the others., Once the cables and screws have been removed, lift the 2 pieces of the internal assembly apart. Your Mac Mini's internal components are now fully exposed. Make the necessary changes and reassemble the computer by retracing the process above.