 You won't be able to put passion back into your relationship if you're walking around in a sweatsuit and haven't showered in three days. If you want to start feeling romantic again, it's important that you and your honey look ready for romance---or even for some loving.


Clean up nicely. Even if you know you're going to have a busy day, passion can strike at any time, and it's important to be prepared. Both you and your honey should make an effort to shower, groom your hair, smell nice, and have fresh breath, so you can start to get back into a romantic mood.
Dress to impress. Though it's unrealistic to dress to the nines every night, especially if you live with your significant other, make an effort to wear well-fitting clothes that are fresh and appealing, so you'll look nice even if you're just hanging out around the house.
There can be some days when you look more casual, or even lounge around the house all day in your pajamas, but this should not become routine.
 Once you start to look more romantic, you can also act more romantic. It's important to have a romantic atmosphere, go on dates, and say romantic things to keep your passion alive before you head into the bedroom. Here's how:


Have a romantic atmosphere. If you live together, keep a clean apartment with appealing lighting and clean sheets, so hooking up is always a possibility. If you don't live together and your honey is coming over for movie night, light some scented candles and get rid of all of your clutter so he's thinking about sex instead of why you haven't taken out the garbage.
Go on romantic dates. Make an effort to have a date night at least once a week. You can make a delicious dinner at home with a bottle of red wine, go for a moonlit stroll, or check out the new restaurant down the street.
Listen to jazz or watch movies to get you in a romantic mood. If you're surrounded by romance, you're more likely to be romantic.
Make romantic gestures. If you're a guy, open doors, pull out chairs, and give your woman her coat if she's cold. If you're a girl, link arms with your loved one or kiss him on the lips at the right time.
 Make a point of complimenting your honey and saying how much you love him or her. Be cute by leaving a note on the mirror, in your honey's lunch, or in his or her inbox that will make your special someone think of you when you're apart during the day. Here are some other ways to say romantic things:


Write your honey a card listing all the reasons you love him. It doesn't have to be for a birthday or another special occasion--you can do it just because. You can even present him with the card at the beginning of your dinner date to really impress him.
In the evenings, tell him how much you love him right before you go to bed.
Send the occasional text message that tells your honey to have a great day and that you're thinking of him or her.

