 A resume is the initial mode of communication to an employer that you are interested in an open position. Your resume should clearly reflect who you are and that you possess the skills and abilities that merit an interview.Resumes should summarize your education, work history, and any other experience, volunteer work, or responsibility that make an excellent candidate for the position.
There are plenty of websites dedicated to writing an excellent resume. Try to choose one from an academic or recently updated source since strategies change frequently on the job market.
The design of your resume should be clear, crisp, and without error. Refuse using colors other than white and unless you want an artsy position, keep your resume professional and aesthetically pleasing.
Proofread your resume several times and then have someone else do it once or twice. Employers will certainly find your errors.
Never lie or exaggerate anything on your resume. Even if an employer does not catch it before they hire you, they can still fire you if they catch it later.
Focus on skills and abilities that you possess if you have little or no work experience.
 Good networking starts with a plan. A good plan starts by realizing what talents, strengths, and skills you possess or could add value to the position you desire. Think about it deeply and write them down.One of the most important strategies in networking is to start early and make sure that you keep a balanced approach. Remember, you have to not only look for a job but be able to convey what you can do to help your potential employer.
Be sure to make your own business cards and, if possible, update your online profiles in case a potential employer wants to search for you at a later date.
Follow up on any leads and stay in touch with the people who you networked with. A position might open up at a later date and you don’t want people to forget who you are.
 An interview is an opportunity to convince a potential employer that you the necessary skills, knowledge, and experience for the position. Be prepared, dress well, be on time, and smile.Make sure you research the internet for all there is to know about your potential employer. This will demonstrate that you are interested in the business and make you stand out as an applicant.
Think about what questions they might ask you based on the profession and your research. Reread your resume, they will ask you several questions about it.
Dress appropriately. Don’t be too formal or too casual, wear neutral colors, and make sure you are not too wrinkly.
Prepare extra copies of your resume, buy a notepad and pen, a portfolio of your work, and any other information you might need to complete an application form. Try to prepare all of these items the night before so you are not scurrying around the house minutes before you have to leave.
Prepare a list of questions for the end of the interview. Employers will always ask if you have any questions. If you say “no” this could be seen as rude, not prepared, or uninterested.
Once you arrive, be mindful of your actions in the waiting room, sit up straight, be attentive, project confidence, and be respectful and courteous. Otherwise, you will have no chance.

