 While the easiest way to find a cube's volume is to cube the length of one of its sides, it's not the only way. The length of a cube's side or the area of one of its faces can be derived from several other of the cube's properties, which means that if you start with one of these pieces of information, you can find the volume of the cube in a roundabout manner. For instance, if you know a cube's surface area, all you need to do to find its volume is to divide the surface area by 6, then take the square root of this value to find the length of the cube's sides. From here, all you'll need to do is cube the length of the side to find the volume as normal. In this section, we'll walk through this process step-by-step.


The surface area of a cube is given via the formula 6s2, where s is the length of one of the cube's sides. This formula is essentially the same as finding the 2-dimensional area of the cube's six faces and adding these values together. We'll use this formula to find the volume of the cube from its surface area.
As a running example, let's say that we have a cube whose surface we know to be 50 cm2, but we don't know its side lengths. In the next few steps, we'll use this information to find the cube's volume.
 Since the cube has 6 faces with equal area, dividing the cube's surface area by 6 will give you the area of one of its faces. This area is equal to the lengths of two of its sides multiplied (l × w, w × h, or h × l).


In our example, dividing 50/6 = 8.33 cm2. Don't forget that two-dimensional answers have square units (cm2, in2, and so on).
 Since the area of one of the cube's faces is equal to s2 (s × s), taking the square root of this value will find you the length of one of the cube's sides. Once you have this, you have enough information to solve for the volume of the cube as you normally would.


In our example, √8.33 is roughly 2.89 cm.
 Now that you've obtained a value for the length of the cube's side, simply cube this value (multiply it by itself twice) to find the volume of the cube as detailed in the section above. Congratulations - you've found the volume of a cube from its surface area.


In our example, 2.89 × 2.89 × 2.89 = 24.14 cm3. Don't forget to label your answer with cubic units.

