 You can keep in touch with someone the old fashioned way by sending them a handwritten letter. Sometimes, sending a thoughtful written letter to someone can be a nice gesture that lets them know you want to stay connected in a meaningful way. You may get in the habit of writing letters to certain people once every few weeks so you do not lose touch.To encourage people to write back to you, you may try including self-addressed envelopes and postage in your letter. This will make it easier for the person to mail their response to you as soon as they have finished their letter.
 Another way to keep in touch with others is to send out cards on specific holidays as a way to check in and connect. You may send out Christmas cards every year so you can write to people and wish them a happy holiday season. Or you may send out cards for Hanukkah, Chinese New Year, or Kwanzaa, depending on what you and the person celebrate.You may enclose a picture of you and your family together in the holiday card. This can help give the receiver a visual sense of your family and make them feel more in touch with what is going on in your life.
 If you connect better to people in person, try to schedule face to face visits with them on a regular basis. You may have weekly or monthly get togethers with people so you do not lose touch with them. Having in person visits can also make the time you spend together feel meaningful.For example, you may schedule in weekly dinner dates with a friend so you do not lose touch with them. Or you may have a monthly coffee date with a loved one so you can catch up and chat in person.
 If you find it difficult to stay in touch with others on a regular basis, you may find it easier to plan a big trip or get together with others. Planning a trip together can give you all a reason to stay in touch. A trip or get together away from the regular craziness of life can also allow you to spend quality time with each other and make lasting memories together.For example, you may plan a trip with old girlfriends from high school where you go to a cabin on a lake or you all go to a destination overseas. This could give you all a reason to stay in touch and bond once you are all together on your trip.

