 You should not squeeze or pick at blackhead, as this can lead to infection or scarring.However, you can remove pesky or unsightly blackheads with several different types of products that may not necessarily irritate your skin or require treating it with chemicals. Learning your different options can help you identify the best product for your specific blackhead removal needs. Products that can remove blackheads include:Extractor tools
Pore strips
Clay masks
Topical creams;
, Every person has different skin and concerns with blackheads, such as large blackheads or a widespread presentation of small open comedones.Depending on the severity and type of your blackhead, identifying the best remover for you can help get rid of the breakout.Choose:


Topical creams, such as retinoids or antibiotic gels. This is a good option if you have oily skin and want a relatively effortless way to remove your blackheads. These products may require daily application and can be expensive.An extractor tool for any skin type. This could be a good option if you have large and visible blackheads, and are a looking for a relatively inexpensive remover. Keep in mind that, though these are available at any drugstore, dermatologists do not recommend using them at home, as they can still cause scarring. It is safest to have a dermatologist perform any extractions.
At-home blue light treatment. You can now try light therapy in the comfort of your own home. Blue light treatments have been shown to reduce blackheads and other acne.Ask your doctor or dermatologist for a brand recommendation.
Pore strips if you have oily or combination skin, have widespread blackheads, and are looking for an inexpensive, quick and short-term result. They will not prevent the blackheads from returning or treat them, only minimize their appearance., If you are determined to remove your blackheads at home, speak to your dermatologist or other skin care professional. She may be able to give you advice on the best option for you and your needs.Tell your doctor about your concerns and ask questions about types of removers you could use.Consider any advice your doctor gives you about removing your blackheads.
Ask if your doctor can recommend specific extractors or topical treatments like creams or masks.
 If you decide to remove your blackheads with an extractor, you might be confused by the variety of tools available at pharmacies, health stores, beauty supply outlets, and larger retailers. Select one based on the type of blackheads you want to remove. Your options for buying extractor tools include:


A two-headed tool. One side has a small spoon with a hole that fits closely over the blackhead to release the blackhead. The other side has a small and very sharp lancet that can be very dangerous if not used by a professional.A cupped-end tool. This kind of tool may have one or two cupped ends that fit different sizes of blackheads.In some cases, one end of the tool might have an angle to get at difficult areas like the side of the nose.Consider buying a tool in stainless steel. Not only is the product generally considered hypoallergenic for most people, but you can also easily and effectively disinfect it between uses., If you want to remove blackheads with something other than an extractor, look for products specific to your skin type and prepare to use it. Most pharmacies, skin care and cosmetics stores, beauty supply stores, and some medical supply stores carry the different types of removal implements.


Buy your choice either in a store or online.
Read product labels to help ensure you can effectively use the product and don’t have any allergies to any of the ingredients.
Ask staff any questions you may have about the product.
 Wash the area where you're removing the blackheads. This can open up your pores and remove surface bacteria or debris that may make removal difficult or cause infection.Wash with a gentle cleanser that has a neutral pH.
Use an oil-free cleanser if you have oily skin and a glycerine or cream-based cleanser for dry skin.
Do not scrub your skin.
Wash with lukewarm water. Hot water can strip your skin of natural oils that moisturize your skin and also can irritate it.Dry your skin and avoid putting any products on it before you remove the blackheads.
 Opening your pores and making your skin more pliable can help you more effectively remove blackheads. Boil water and pour it into a bowl (do not try to perform this while the water is still on the stove). Steam your skin over the bowl for a few minutes to help open pores and make your skin softer for removal.Place your skin at least 12 inches away from the boiling water to minimize the risk of burning yourself. Steam burns can be extremely severe, so use caution.
Drape a towel over your head and bowl to capture more of the steam.
 If you’ve decided to use topical creams to remove widespread or especially persistent blackheads, apply it to the area you want to treat. Use clean fingers to spread a thin layer of the product.Leave the product on your skin for as long as the package suggests. Allowing it to stay on longer may cause irritation.
You may need to apply a moisturizer to the area if you leave it on overnight. This may help minimize irritation.
 If you’ve chosen to use a comedone extractor or loop, use it once you’ve steamed your face. Be as gentle as possible when you press it against the blackhead for removal.Gently press on only one side of the affected blackhead and gently move the extractor across the area of the blackhead.Move the tools over the top of the blackhead, which should cause the blackhead to come out as a plug.Once you’ve removed the blackhead, wash the extractor in hot, soapy water., Though further study is needed to determine the ideal method, light source and dose, light therapy has been shown to kill the bacteria responsible for blackheads.Blue light therapy can be done by a doctor or at home with a hand-held kit or mask.

Instructions for use will vary depending on which device you buy. Follow the manufacturer's instructions closely and speak with your doctor or dermatologist if you have any questions.
Treatment with light may cause temporary redness, pain, and sensitivity to light.
 If you’ve chosen to use pore strips for smaller and more widespread blackheads, place them on the areas you want to treat. Make sure you place the strips flush against your skin to maximize the efficacy of the product.Wet the area you want to treat with your finger or washcloth to help the strips adhere to your skin.
Allow the strip to dry completely before removing it. This ensures that you get as much of the blackhead material as possible.
Remove the strip from the treatment area gently. Peel it off slowly to minimize pain.
Examine the results if you want.
 Rinse your skin once you’ve completed removing your blackheads. You may also want to re-wash it, but be aware that this may cause irritation.Use lukewarm or cool water.Use a gentle cleanser or a soothing toner to remove any lingering residue. This can also help remove any bacteria that came out with the blackhead.
 Apply a skin-type specific moisturizer to your skin. Properly hydrated skin may minimize irritation and help prevent further breakouts.Choose a moisturizer specific to your skin type, such as dry, combination, or oily.
Even if your skin is oily, it needs moisturizer to help balance it out. In this case, choose an oil-free and non-comedogenic moisturizer.Ask your dermatologist or skin care professional what type of skin you have.

