 The number of computers you're connecting will determine the type of network hardware you'll need.


If you are connecting four or less computers, you'll just need a single router, or one switch if you don't need internet.
If you're connecting more than four computers, you'll want a router and a switch, or just a switch if you don't need internet.;
, If your installing a permanent LAN solution, you'll want to keep cable length in mind. CAT5 Ethernet cables should not run longer than 250 feet. If you need to cover larger distances, you'll need switches at regular intervals, or you'll need to use CAT6 cables.


You'll need one Ethernet cable for each computer you want to connect to the LAN, as well as an Ethernet cable to connect the router to the switch (if applicable).
 To create a LAN, you'll need a router and/or a network. These pieces of hardware are the "hub" of your LAN, and all of your computers will be connected to them.


The easiest way to create a LAN where every computer has access to the internet is to use a router, and then add a network switch if the router doesn't have enough ports. A router will automatically assign an IP address to every computer that is connected to it.
Switches are similar to routers but do not automatically assign IP addresses. Switches typically have many more Ethernet ports than a router has.
 This port may be labeled "INTERNET" instead. This will provide internet access to every computer that is connected to your LAN.


You can skip this if you're setting up a LAN without internet access.
You don't need a router at all to create a LAN, but it makes things easier. If you just use a network switch, you'll need to manually assign IP addresses to each computer after connecting them.
 If you're using a network switch to connect more computers, connect it to one of the LAN ports on the router. You can use any open port on the switch to make the connection. When connected, the router will provide IP addresses for every computer that is connected to either device.

