


Will you be watching videos or just listening to sound?

How much space will you need to store your songs?

Estimate how many songs you get in a month, and then multiply by 100 for the amount of MB you will need. (This number is a general rule of thumb taking into consideration that each mp3 song is about 2.5-3 MB in size, and you will probably want your mp3 player for 3 years before deleting stuff.)

For example, if I know I get 15 songs a month, then I will want a 1500 MB mp3 player, which is 1.5GB.
If I know I will get 50 songs a month, then I will want a 5 GB mp3 player. (1024 MB is one GB)


This is a general rule of thumb and you should purchase what you think you will use.



Are you planning to join a music subscription service?

If so, research the various services to find out which mp3 players they do and do not work with.



Will you be carrying your mp3 player with you everywhere you go?

If so, you may want a smaller type that can easily fit in your pocket.

;
, Check out various online sites that specialize in consumer price comparisons with reviews such as:


C-net

Epinions, among others.



Amazon

Newegg

If you are a college student, check with your campus IT department to see if you can qualify for a discount at Dell or other computer stores. Sometimes there are university loan programs or just flat discounts for your university students.
 You should always look at the seller's ratings, feedback and full item details including the shipping & handling fees before you bid!


eBay
Half.com

,,


Also note that some stores offer coupons or discounts for their items that can sometimes be applied to mp3 players, so do a google search for the store's name and the word "coupon" to see if anything is applicable.

example: google for "amazon coupons" or "WalMart coupons"




,, Some online sites offer free shipping, but usually you'll also need to pay $6-$20 for standard shipping and handling fees.
 There are three types of main protection items:




a transparent screen-resistant cover
a case-cover

also known as a "skin" which can often also change the color of your mp3 player


a general carrying case.


It's usually recommended that you buy the screen protection cover and the skin.
 Most mp3 players don't come with AC adapters, just a USB adapter that charges your player through your computer.


Arm-band holder or exercise "pouch".

This lets you exercise with your mp3 player without it falling off or getting bumped.


Headphones

Many players come with earbuds but a few do not. It should mention earbuds in the player's description if it includes them.
Occasionally people find earbuds to be painful, though most think they're acceptable. You can always purchase headphones later if you decide you don't like earbuds.
Some people just like the sound quality of headphones anyway.


Car charger battery.

Great for travelling!


USB connection cable

Most players will come with this, so make sure you need one before you buy it.


Radio transmitter

This will let you play your music for people with radios.
This can be great for caravan travelling or for transmitting music to radios for other people.


Emergency battery converter.

Lets you use AA batteries when your charge gets low, only available for some mp3 players.


Extra battery

Some players, like iPods, don't have the option for you to change your own batteries, so check this out before you buy one.



