 The ingredients mentioned in this section will aim to provide much needed oil and moisture to help protect against further damage. They give your hair some shine back. Mix and match depending on what you have available and what matches your specific needs.



Avocado: avocado is one of nature's greatest moisturizers, rich in vitamins such as E & B and nutrients. Its natural oils will give your hair the moisture it's lacking. Use about half an avocado, mash it, use on it's own or with other ingredients.

Banana: rich in vitamins and oils, especially good for improving hair elasticity, therefore preventing split ends and breakage, and also good for dandruff. Mash about half a banana, use on its own or with other ingredients. Freezing and thawing the banana before use can help to reduce lumps, which are difficult to wash out of hair.

Honey: honey is moisturizing and a humectant (has the ability to cling onto moisture) making it suitable for dry hair. Be aware that it also lightens the colour of your hair (bleaching effect). Use as much as necessary (not too much or you'll be left with sticky hair), can be mixed into other ingredients such as the avocado or banana. Apply to damp hair.

Mayonnaise: sounds disgusting, but mayonnaise is made of eggs, vinegar and oil, all three of which have been used for many years to give volume, shine and hydration to hair. For dry and damaged hair it's best used mixed with avocado, although it can be used alone.

Olive oil: try to use extra virgin olive oil for best results, this has been used for centuries for hair and skin moisturizing as it is nourishing and strengthening, perfect for dry and damaged hair! Can be mixed in with other ingredients such as avocado or banana, OR to use on its own; work it through warm, damp hair as needed (not too much or risk not being able to rinse it) from roots to tips. Wrap either a warm towel or a plastic bag over your hair and leave for 20 minutes, then rinse.

Coconut Oil: not surprisingly, coconut oil is good for dry or damaged hair because it soaks into the hair shaft and coats the hair with it's nutrients. Coconut oil is also good for all parts of your body, so while you leave it in (You can use it on it's own, or as part of a hair mask), you can put some on your face or nails - or even your feet! - to help keep them soft and shiny. To use, you can wet your hair - but preferably leave it dry - then leave in for twenty minutes to an hour, after that, shampoo a few times - once or twice - to get all of the grease out of your hair (Or you can leave some on and sleep with it, and wash it out in the morning, for extra shine) and then, if you'd like to, condition as normal.

Eggs: commonly used due to their high levels of Omega-3 fatty acids, xanthophylls, immunoglobulins, vitamins and other micro-nutrients, eggs are good for strengthening the hair and hair follicles meaning that they are ideal for damaged hair. Can be used alone or mixed into other ingredients, in particular olive oil for a super moisturizing hair mask. If you do not like the smell of eggs in your hair, try a ready egg oil available in the market or online.

Gelatin: If allowed to set on hair, unflavored gelatin can provide a protective protein coating to the hair. Combine with water, vinegar, and a humectant, and deep condition afterwards for best results.

Glycerin: A strong humectant like honey, but without its bleaching properties. Always mix it with water before use.;
