 Regular throat lozenges don't do much to heal your throat, but they do alleviate the pain.


The extra saliva you produce with the candy in your mouth will lubricate the throat to relieve the itchy feeling.
Meanwhile, the medication in the drop acts as a local anesthetic which numbs the irritation in the throat.
 Antihistamines block histamine, a chemical in your body that can cause an itchy throat. Benadryl, Zyrtec, and Claritin are just a few brands of cold and flu antihistamines that are designed to soothe scratchy and sore throats.


Side effects of antihistamines may include dry mouth, dizziness, and headaches.
 Plain old pain relievers, also called analgesics, like aspirin and Ibuprofen can also help to relieve the pain associated with an itchy throat. Follow the directions on the packaging for correct dosage.

Keep in mind that aspirin should never be given to children or teenagers recovering from chickenpox or flu-like symptom, as it can lead to the rare but fatal Reye's syndrome., Throat spray is a great way of relieving itchy throats and dry, tickling coughs. They usually contain phenol (or a similar ingredient) which numbs the throat.


Throat sprays are available over-the-counter in most pharmacies and are relatively cheap.
Some throat sprays even come in different flavors, like mint or berry flavor.
 Gargling with a mouthwash that contains menthol (such as Listerine) a couple of times per day helps to numb the throat, alleviating the irritating, itchy feeling.
 Most of the time, an itchy throat will get better with at home treatment. However, if your symptoms last for more than 10 days, worsen rapidly, or are accompanied by a high fever, you should call your doctor. If you are experiencing wheezing or trouble breathing, hives, facial swelling, a severe sore throat, fever, or difficulty swallowing, see your doctor immediately. Any of these symptoms could signal a more serious problem.


An itchy throat could be the result of an allergic reaction to food or medicine, which could occur between a few minutes and a few hours after consuming the trigger substance. This can be life-threatening.
A itchy or sore throat may also signal a bacterial or viral infection that requires a doctor’s attention, like strep throat, tonsillitis, or the flu.
In some cases, an itchy throat is the result of heartburn or a side effect of medication like ACE inhibitors for high blood pressure.

