 Garlic is a great addition to your diet when you're trying to cleanse your liver, as it activates enzymes in the liver that help to clear out toxins. It also contains two natural compounds called allicin and selenium which support healthy liver function., Green, leafy vegetables such as spinach, kale, arugula, dandelion greens and chicory provide a multitude of liver-cleansing benefits -- they eliminate heavy metals, pesticides and herbicides (which wreak havoc on the liver) and increase the production and flow of healthy bile.
 Grapefruit contains a special protein called glutathione which attaches itself to toxins before eliminating them from the body. Enjoying a whole grapefruit or drinking a glass of freshly-squeezed grapefruit juice with breakfast aids the liver cleansing process along with boosting your bodies vitamin C, pectin and antioxidant content.
 Avocados are also high in glutathione, a compound which protects the liver from toxins and ensures proper liver function. Some research has suggested that eating just 1 to 2 avocados per week for a minimum of 30 days could help to reverse liver damage., Walnuts contain glutathione, an amino acid called l-arginine and omega-3 fatty acids, all of which help to detoxify the liver and lower ammonia — high levels of which are responsible for many diseases. Try munching on a handful of walnuts as a snack, or sprinkling them over a salad., Turmeric is something of a liver-cleansing superfood — it protects the liver from toxins and helps to regenerate damaged liver cells. It also boosts bile production and supports the healthy function of the gall bladder, another purifying organ. Try adding turmeric to lentil curries and stewed vegetable dishes to take advantage of its detoxifying benefits.
 There are certain foods and ingredients that work against the liver, overloading it with toxins and hindering its proper function. Such foods include processed, fatty foods like preserved meat (sausages, corned beef), deep fried food, margarine and hydrogenated oils, and any food that contains artificial colors and flavors.
 There are many natural supplements which can help to detoxify the liver and promote liver health. Some of the most popular include malic acid, burdoc, dandelion root and milk thistle. These can be found at the pharmacy or health food store and should be taken according to the instructions on the packaging., Certain herbal teas are believed to flush toxins and fat deposits from the liver, while also increasing hydration levels. The best teas for liver cleansing include ingredients such as dandelion root, ginger, clove, burdock root, chamomile, cinnamon and horsetail. Try to drink at least two cups of herbal tea per day and sweeten with honey if necessary.

