 Quantum physics has proven by physical tests that a higher field of consciousness (information field) in the universe exists (Alain Aspect , Amit Goswami). The ruling string theory assumes that it has our material universe there are many other dimensions of energy. The former head of the Max Planck Institute for Physics in Munich, Professor Hans-Peter Dürr believes that the brain by thinking a field of consciousness (quantum field) forms that can exist after the death of the body in the higher dimension further Dürr: "Basically, there is no such thing as material. Primarily, there exist only connections to material foundation. We could therefore call it consciousness material. Energy appears only as coagulated, secondarily, solidified spirit. Many discoveries of quantum physics are not only immaterial, but that is a work in completely different ways that has nothing to do with the standard three-dimensional spatial sense we have. It is a pure information field, a sort of quantum code. It has nothing to do with mass and energy. This information field spans the entire universe. The cosmos is whole information because this field has no limit. There is only one, but this one united entity is differentiated."
You are 78 years old. Do you believe in an afterlife? Is there existence after death? Dürr: "That is an interesting question. What we consider the here and now, this world, it is actually just the material level that is comprehensible. The beyond is an infinite reality that is much bigger. This world is rooted in. In this way, our lives in this plane of existence are encompassed, surrounded, by the afterworld already. My existence in this world is written on a sort of hard drive on the tangible (the brain). I have also transferred this data onto a spiritual quantum field (independent consciousness field). I do not lose this information, this consciousness. The body dies but the spiritual quantum field continues. In this way, I am immortal. ";
, The near death research confirms that the mind can think independently from the body. 1991 the 35 year-old Pam Reynolds underwent a brain operation. Her blood was routed from her brain and she was placed in a state of artificial coma. Her head was attached with wires to measure brain waves. It was ascertained that no brain waves could travel during this half an hour. The thought processes were blocked, and examined as no hormone release could occur. Hallucinations were not possible in this state. And it just so happened that Pam Reynolds had her out of body experience at this time. She floated with her soul out of her body. She observed from above all of the details of her operation. She then floated through a tunnel to a world of light. There, she met her dead grandmother and other people. The beings there lived in a paradise dimension and possessed positive energy. With their energy, they strengthened Ms. Reynolds So that she could go through her operation successfully. In a BBC interview, Pam Reynolds explained that she had experienced the breath of God. The special aspect of the case of Pam Reynolds lies with the fact that modern measurement equipment shows that the consciousness of a person exists even when the stuff of the brain is shut off. This leads one to conclude that there must be an independent consciousness separate from the body. The body and soul are two independent manifestations of energy. The case of Pam Reynolds was tested with many other patients. They confirmed the results. , Karmapa, the second highest master in Tibetan Buddhism (after the Dalai Lama). Enlightened Tibetan masters traditionally stay in their bodies for three days after death. This is recognized by the fact that their bodies do not begin to decompose and that the heart chakra is warm. This fact can be explained with the continuation of life after death. The 16th Karmapa died in 1981 in a hospital in Chicago. He stayed three days after his death with his soul in his body. The body did not rot in that time and the heart region was warm. Dr. Levy cared for him until his death: „He lay there in bed, dying with cancer, and he looked as if he were to have his tonsils removed. Every time I walked in the room, he smiled and his face brightened. I looked at him and said, “how are you today?” and he smiled and said “I’m okay”. For his Holiness, it was all just business as usual. It was just one more experience, the experience to find out if cancer would kill him or not. For him, it did not make a difference if he lived or died. You might as well have been talking about chicken soup with him. The way his death neared, was just one more tool with which he could work with others and help them.
Even in death, his Holiness never ceased to amaze the Western medical establishment. 48 hours after his death, his chest was still warm. In this moment, my hands were both warm, and his chest was warmer than my hand. In order to test this, I moved my hands to the side of his chest, away from his heart, and there it was cold. I then felt the middle again, and above his heart it was warm. I pinched his skin and found that it was still elastic and completely normal. After 36 hours, the dead typically have skin comparable to dough. And his skin was still like that of the living after 48 hours. It was as if he weren’t dead.
Shortly after we left the room, the surgeon came and said, „ he is warm, he is warm.“ And then it came to be that the medical staff asked again and again if he were still warm. It was naturally consistent to the traditional Tibetan experience. Developed individuals like his Holiness stay in their bodies after breath and heartbeat have stopped, within a state of deep meditation. After three days the Samadhi ended. It was recognized that his Holiness was no longer warm and that the process of death set in. After this, the atmosphere changed, it too became normal.”

, The reincarnation research approaches more and more to the fact that there are past lives. Thousands of reports were investigated . The witnesses could accurately describe the previous places and situations, although they were never there and had heard nothing about it in the normal way. The most well-known reincarnation researcher in the West is Professor Ian Stevenson from the University of Virginia. He examined over the course of 40 years over 3.000 reincarnations situations throughout the world. Often, he noticed similarities in behavior and bodily signals in line with the former incarnation. One of the most well-known cases of reincarnation in India is Shanti Devi. She was born in 1926 in New Delhi and could remember her previous life as a housewife in Mathura. Although she was never in that location, she was able to describe her previous husband, her previous house, and the city itself. She could even remember where she had always hidden her money in her former life. , Who is enlightened can, thanks to its expanded consciousness, look in the beyond and know the life after death and the happiness in the Paradise. The sacred books of mankind based on the enlightenment experiences of their authors. Buddha looked at his former life, when he became enlightened. He confirmed that there are several areas in the beyond. Krishna also knew from experience that there is a life after death. It's the same with Jesus and the authors of the Bible (the enlightened Jews). The Koran is based on the enlightenment experience of Mohammed (he lived for three years as a yogi in the desert) and his view of paradise. One might think that the enlightened are imagining their perceptions. Against this speak, however, the attempts with the clairvoyants. The American professor Gary Schwartz tested the most well-known mediums of the United States from 1998 to 2001. The mediums could experience the beyond with their spirits and make contact with the dead. Gary Schwartz compared their statements about distanced things with a control group of average people. The mediums had a ratio of correct answers of 83%, whereas the control group got only 36%. If the mediums know things far away it is very possible, that also their knowing about things in the beyond is correct. 