 This pose will help you open up your chest, neck, and shoulders to release tension. It also stretches your arms, legs, and torso for the ultimate full-body stretching experience.Start lying flat on your stomach on your yoga mat. Look ahead so that your chin is on the mat. Your arms should be down at your sides. Take a moment to get in touch with your breath.
Bend your knees as you exhale, trying to bring your heels as close as possible to your buttocks. Your knees should be about hip-distance apart. Reach back and grab your ankles.
As you inhale, lift your heels up, drawing your thighs and upper torso away from the mat. You are now in bow pose.
Hold the pose for 30 seconds, breathing slowly and softly. You won't be able to breathe as deeply because of the pressure on your torso, but avoid the inclination to hold your breath.
As you breathe, focus on drawing your shoulders down into your back, firming up your back. Think of drawing your tailbone towards the floor while lifting your heels and thighs higher.;
, Eagle pose stretches your shoulders and back, as well as helping build strength in your chest, back, and shoulders. By opening the joints, you can release tension as well as improve mobility in your shoulders.Start eagle pose from a standing position. This is a balancing pose, so it might be challenging for beginners. Bend your knees slightly and lift your right foot so you are balancing on your left foot.
Take a moment to ground yourself and find your balance, then cross your right thigh over your left – as though you are sitting cross-legged in an invisible chair.
Reach in front of you and cross your right arm over your left arm, then bend your elbows so your forearms are in front of your face. Bring your left hand around the inside of your right wrist so you can press your palms together.
As you squeeze your arms together, focus on dropping your shoulders down your back. Stay into the pose for between 15 and 30 seconds, breathing deeply. With every breath, try to sink a little deeper into the pose, bending your knees a little more.
If balancing poses aren't your strength, you can add eagle arms to another pose in which your body is more supported to get the same benefits for your shoulders without having to balance., Child's pose is a gentle pose that will help release the tension in your shoulders, neck, and back. This is a rest pose often used during yoga practice when you need to take a break and reconnect with your breath.Start by kneeling on a yoga mat or some other soft surface, such as a rug or blanket. Your knees should be spread wide, with your big toes touching beneath you. You can roll a blanket or towel under or behind your knees to relieve pressure if they bother you in this position – the point of this pose is to be comfortable.
Press your hips down toward your heels and fold over from the hips, resting your torso over or between your thighs. Rest your forehead on the mat, holding your arms at your sides with your palms facing up.
You can also go into extended child's pose by reaching your arms straight and forward past your head. Take care if you do this not to crunch your shoulders.
You should stay in this pose for 5 to 10 deep breaths, but the pose is gentle enough that you can stay here as long as you like, focusing on your breath.
 Warrior 2 stretches and strengthens your legs, ankles, chest, and shoulders. A simple arm modification can further deepen the stretch in your shoulders to help loosen them if they're tight.Start in a standing position, then on an exhale step or jump your feet until they're about four feet apart. Your right foot should be pointed to the right, your left foot forward, so that your right heel bisects the arch of your left foot.
Bend your right knee so that it is at a 90-degree angle, shin perpendicular to the floor and thigh parallel. Make sure your knee is directly above your ankle, not pressing forward over your toes.
Extend your arms out to either side at shoulder height so that they are parallel to the floor with your palms down. This is Warrior 2.
Now lift your right arm up along your ear and bend your elbow, dropping your hand behind your back. Reach up and grab your right elbow with your left hand, pulling your elbow straight.
Stay in this position for three to five deep breaths, then switch and do the other side.

