 Photoshop.com's Express Editor is a streamlined, online version of Adobe's universally-known image manipulation software. It's got a paltry handful of options compared to the real thing, but that's still more options than most of its competitors can muster. Best of all, the site's interface is slick and practical at the same time. Photoshop.com has a range of sophisticated tools including dodge and burn tools, highlighting, and distortion and sketch effects, among many others.


The Express Editor's interface is somewhat different than that of Photoshop itself. Users familiar with one won't necessarily be able to jump right into the other.
Photoshop.com provides each user 2 gigabytes of cloud storage space for photos. As professionals know, this isn't enough to handle many serious, high-quality images, but it's great for ordinary, run-of-the-mill ones.
 Image editing site Pixlr offers three separate, interconnected tools for playing with images. The most powerful, Pixlr Editor, allows resizing, cropping, rotation, and a number of useful effects and filters. Pixlr Express, the next step up in terms of ease and efficiency, offers a range of premade effects that can be applied with the click of a button. The easiest of the three interfaces, Pixlr-o-Matic, simply applies filter and frame effects, in much the same vein as Instagram.


Switching from area to area is a bit awkward, so start with the most powerful tool you need first, and then mess with the less serious tools once you're done there.
 Fotor is a very streamlined image editing tool that provides filters and other basic touch-ups in a set, ordered series of steps. It's useless for spot-editing, but if you just want to quickly sharpen a photo without having to practice anything, it's quite handy. Fotor also provides some fun effects and frames you can try once you've cleaned up your picture.


To finalize changes you've made, you'll need to click the “Apply” button at each step. Unfortunately, the button sometimes moves around, and can be a bit difficult to find. Be patient and look carefully to find where it's gone.

