 All people are different, and judging someone based on their movie collection requires a lot and a little. The point of judging however, is to gain insight into a person's subconscious or to tell you more about them that you may not currently know, or that he/she may not even know about themselves.;
, Movies can be given as gifts, be borrowed, or are someone else's--therefore, do not assume that every movie is an indication of what type of person you are dealing with or what their interests/deepest darkest thoughts are.
 To judge, you have to know what you are judging. Movies you have never heard of should be filed away in your memory to look up later.
 Action, drama, comedy, romance, etc. The larger number usually is a good indication of what the person prefers to purchase or watch in their down time.
 If a movie or several strike you as completely out of the ordinary, you can always ask in a casual way. This is when you can determine if the movie was a gift, belongs to someone else, or is loved by another person in the household. Again, don't assume too much and don't state your question as if you already know the answer.
 Now, as you read the list-your first thoughts are subconsciously "Have I seen this movie?" Going with that, you can decide whether or not you liked it. If you liked it or loved it, a strong sense of amusement or fondness may occur. Maybe even a slight head nod. If it is one of your all-time favorite movies, you may immediately "forgive" any other movie you deem "unacceptable." The next question to ask if you haven't seen a movie is "Have I heard about it?"...Immediately your next though is "Yes, so and so said it sucked..." If it is a close friend who's opinion you respect and you both generally agree about things, especially all matters intellectual, chances are you will probably think it sucks as well if you saw it. Take note of that and move on.
 Judging requires you approach a collection with an open mind, taking into account all the variables mentioned previously. Some movies "overlap" and there is usually a story behind what a person thinks or feels about each and every movie they possess. Note that not everyone can explain why they like some of the movies they own...this is where judgement comes in.
 Your judgement is YOUR opinions and thoughts. Judgement of a person based on movies is considered by most, an inaccurate measurable tool, therefore, you may not receive other people's support of your assumptions or thoughts. Save your judgements for a close friend or relative later, not to the person's face or to someone who you think will agree with you but unsure of. You may end up saying something offensive unintentionally.
 Judgement does not always have to be negative. If you see a lot of movies you like from a collection and feel you can ask that person about them, you may realize you have a lot in common. Or better yet-realize something else about a movie that you didn't notice before, a scene, character, some history about the actors, etc. Also, if there are movies you are interested in and the conversation/s have been positive for the most part, you may even start by letting the person borrow one of your movies, and you borrow one of theirs. This way you can continue to get to know one another and share new thoughts and insights about topics the movies address.

