 This method is cheap, quick, and easy — perfect if you don't want to spend money on specialty molds for making ice balls. All you'll need is a few round water balloons (and, of course, water and a freezer.)


Remember that, if you're using your ice balls to cool your drinks, they'll need to be able to fit inside your glasses. Thus, when it comes to water balloons, generally, the smaller, the better.
;
, If you want color ice balls add two drops of food coloring when you do this. Grab a balloon, open the neck, and slide it over your faucet. Turn the water on at a low level so that it gradually fills the balloon. You want enough water so that you have a small globe that you can easily handle with one hand — this is probably a lot less than you'd use if you were going to have a water balloon fight.


Once again, you'll want to make sure that your ice balls are small enough to fit in whichever glass you plan to use. A good way to check this is to put your glass around the balloon as it fills. Keep in mind that water expands when it freezes, so you want to leave a little extra room on each side., When each balloon is full enough, remove it from the faucet and tie it off. Use tight knots — having a leaky balloon in your freezer can lead to an icy mess.
 Now comes the easy part — waiting. Simply leave your water balloons in the fridge until they are frozen all the way through. For the most round shapes, don't pack the balloons into a container — they will push against each other and create oblong-shaped pieces of ice. Instead, give each balloon its own space on a plastic tray or baking sheet so that none are touching.


Note that, even with this precaution, ice balls made using this method won't be perfectly round. Instead, they'll have one side that's a little flattened (the side of the balloon that it was resting on.)

, Once your ice balls are completely frozen, they're ready to use. Simply use a knife or a pair of scissors to cut the balloon off each one and drop the (mostly) spherical pieces of ice into your drink. Voila!

