, You could use a store coupon and manufacturers coupon together.
, These items are usually the same quality as top brand names. You can save an average on thirty percent.
 You save fourteen percent on gas with an average saving of seven percent. This would come out to about twenty cents discount on each gallon.
 You could carpool or catch a bus.
 For example, designate Thursday for errand day. Get everything done that day, than you will not have to make wasted trips continuously throughout the week.
 Lottery is just a tax on the poor and on people who cannot do math. If everyone decided to save their two dollars ( sometimes a lot more than this amount is spent) every week, they would be saving one hundred and four dollars per year and one thousand and forty over ten years.
 A family of four eating at a fast food restaurant would cost somewhere around twenty-five dollars. If you take two trips per week, it would total to fifty dollars. Over the course of the year, you would spend about two thousand six hundred dollars. If you were to dine out at let’s say Applebee’s it would cost you around forty dollars, overall the course of the year it would be four thousand dollars. Instead, prepare meals at home to save money.
 You could save twenty percent on your bill.
 Many restaurants offer coupons.
 Kids eat free on some nights at certain restaurants. Check with the restaurant before traveling, to ensure this is part of their policy.
 You can drink pop at home and you don’t have to leave a tip.
 Meals have become so super-sized that one meal can feed at least two or three people.
 Being conservative with the thermostat and air-drying clothes and dishes. Instead of regular lights, put in compact fluorescent bulbs.
 A well-tuned engine burns less gas. Get all the junk out of the trunk. For every two hundred and fifty pounds your engine hauls, the car loses about one mile per gallon.
 Sometimes the store may charge you more money, if you use a credit card. Check the specific store before your visit, to ensure whether they charge or not is true.
,,, It uses less water, and thereby decreases the amount of water that is used. And since water runs through a pump(that is powered by electric), this will increase your electric bill.

