 The number of hungry people has risen significantly in recent years: in 1990 there were about 822 million, in 2008 about 963 million people. On 19. June 2009 the BBC announced that now officially a billion people go hungry. That's about one of seven people on earth. Each year die about 8.8 million people, mostly children, from starvation, representing a death every 6 seconds. , Reducing your carbon and greenhouse gas emissions will not only make your personal living space more sustainable but it will also save you money in both the short- and long-term. Global warming is occurring more rapidly than it was originally expected to -- only forty years ago,the big worry was global cooling. Even if you remain a cynic, however, and disagree with the consensus of scientists, you will benefit from reduced pollution, a more healthful lifestyle and increased savings from enacting simple activities that will not reduce the quality of your life.
 Peace is an essential component of a happy world. It is important that we manage to build a world of peace. A global disarmament is important. The great nations must work together positively for the good of all people. They must settle their conflicts peacefully. They must refrain from threatening each other with war. Because the threat of war could be a poker game that develops unpredictably.
 Only happy people can build up a happy world. Only positive people have the strength to go a long way up to the end. Only strong people can not be deterred by difficulties. Only clever people recognize the way in which they can achieve their goals. Only wise people live in the right balance of health, activity, and rest so that they do not consume their energy, but grow by the work for a happy world in their own inner happiness.
 The world can seem like an unfriendly, threatening place, yet we all want safety, health, and happiness for ourselves and our loved ones. How can one make a positive difference in this world? One way is the practice "paying it forward." While the steps might be simple, the outcome could change the world.
 That is a great way to make your voice heard to somebody whose voice is heard by the world.

