 Tap the Google Play Store icon from your phone’s home screen to launch the application. Here you can download and install a vast number of software programs specifically designed for devices using the Android operating system.;
, Tap the magnifying glass icon on the upper right hand corner of the screen and enter “Wear Aware.” Tap the “Enter” key on your phone or tablet’s keyboard to start searching.


The app will display a list of results related to your query. Select the one that was developed by “Nordic Usability GmbH.”

, Tap the “Install” button right next to the name of the application to instantly download and install it on your device. The app’s icon will appear on the home screen once it’s successfully installed., These kinds of devices basically look like your normal digital wristwatch. The only difference is that it runs on Android operating system and pretty much work like your common Android smartphone.


There are a lot of different make and models to choose from. Some popular choices are Sony’s SmartWatch and Samsung’s Gear. All provide the same basic functionalities with only a few added extras. Head to your local electronic store to find out which smartwatch you need to buy to match your phone.
 From the home screen, open your Android tablet’s device settings by tapping the app with a gear icon labeled “Settings.” This will take you to a screen where all the customizable options for your device can be found.
 Tap “Bluetooth” from the Settings screen to go your Android’s Bluetooth options. Here, tap the check box beside the “Bluetooth” to enable the said feature.
 While still inside the Bluetooth options screen of your phone, tap the “Scan for Devices” button to have your phone look for nearby Bluetooth devices.


Tap the name of your smartwatch once it appears on the list of detected nearby devices to have your phone bridge a connection to it.
 Some smartwatch require a passcode before you can establish a Bluetooth pairing connection between the two devices. Check your smartwatch manual for the default passcode, which is usually as simple as “0000” or just “1234.”


Once the code is accepted, your phone and smartwatch will be paired with each other. You no longer need to repeat these steps and the two devices will automatically connect to each other once it comes within range.
 Once you’ve successfully synced your smartwatch with your Android smartphone, the Wear Aware app should be readily available from the watch’s home screen.


Tap the “Phone Finder” icon from your smartwatch’s home screen and a red display with a white phone logo will appear on the screen of your smartwatch, notifying you that the app is currently enabled.
 Tap the Wear Aware icon from your phone’s home screen to launch the application, and you’ll see the same red screen and white phone logo as you did on your smartwatch.


Tap the “Test” button on your phone’s screen and your smartwatch will ring. This means that the two devices have successfully synced with each other.
 Whenever your phone starts to get too far away from your smartwatch to keep the standard Bluetooth range of 10 meters, your smartwatch will start ringing and will stop once you get close to your phone again.


If you want to stop the ringing without going near your phone, just exit the app on your smartwatch by pressing the Back button.

