 In a world with more than 7 billion people, almost all of whom have names, originality is plenty desirable. But there's something to be said for an old classic, especially if you're considering naming your child Crystal Shanda Leer or Justin Time. Try to resist the urge to make jokes, choosing goofy names that'll stick your kid with a lame middle name for the rest of their life. Pick something sincere, something meaningful, and something creative, not a one-liner.
 Francis Underwood Kensington sounds like a nice name until the monogrammed towels come in. Just as you need to make sure the name looks nice spelled out, the name should also look appropriate when shortened into initials.
 So, you've got it locked in: Joshua Corey is the perfect, most meaningful, best-sounding name you've got. Then you let the name slip to a coworker or a friend, who scrunches up their face and tells you a sob story about a terrible high school boyfriend named Corey who was a horrible person. Now suddenly you feel like it's a bad name. Great.


If you love a name, keep it to yourself and ignore other people's "feedback," none of which should affect the way you pick a name. If you want to tell a few select people while you're considering names, that can be great, but if you're totally settled on a name, don't give yourself the chance to stress after the fact.
Your parents, a very close friend might be able to help you go over your choices, but they might give you unsolicited associations with the name that'll change the way you feel. If you do share the name, let people know that you don't need to hear about other people named "Corey," or whatever name you choose.
 If you like the way a name sounds, spell it the way it's spelled, don't replace letters with "similar" letters and expect that people will pronounce it the same. If you want people to pronounce "Angela," you can't spell it "Anjeeleh." There are pronunciation rules, and breaking them is frustrating for everyone. It's spelled that way for a reason.


Some parents think this helps to give a signature flare to an otherwise common name, but it's far more important to pick the right name, not a goofy spelling of a traditional name. "Anjeeleh" should be pronounced differently than "Angela," because it's spelled differently. There's a line between "unique" and "ridiculous," and you don't want to cross it with bad spelling.

