 Seth spends large amounts of time meditating and indulging in his passion with art to help himself have a calm and peaceful personality.;
, Seth is always mindful of his emotions and reactions to things and attempts to be a calm and stable as possible. Never act on extreme emotions, such as anger or jealousy, take some time to think about things and the consequences of all your actions.
 Some of the things that Seth is interested in include all different genres of music, reading as many books as possible, spending time chilling with friends, and of course, his art, including painting, sculpting, drawing etc. Find some things that make you happy and devote your free time to doing and finding out as much as you can about them.
 Don't be rude, or show off. Always respect girls and develop compassion for others, even if they are not your favorite people in the world. Deeply care for your friends, family and environment. Also, Seth drinks tea out of teacups :)

, Seth is very intelligent and also very street smart. He reads a lot, studies, researches topics that interest him and also has a very well developed sense of intuition.
 Don't feel you ever have to prove yourself to anyone. The people who love you will love you as you really are. Don't change just for a passing comment someone made and don't get bummed out if people are negative towards you, just ignore them.
 Treat you parents, teachers, enemies, friends, true love, pets, etc with the same level of respect.
 Respect your body and mind. This doesn't mean be completely straight edge (though you can if you want too), but just be mindful of not trashing yourself or your environment.
 Seth has a boa constrictor called Boomer.
 Decorate your room in a way that is pleasing to you.
 Have lots of friends and go out with them, invite them over etc. But try not to get into trouble or do stupid things.
 You can be serious and broody but happy as well. Also, don't pay attention to stereotypes. Seth's appearance may label him as "emo", "goth" or "weird" but if you look at his character he is actually smart, funny, caring and kind. (Not saying that emos and goths aren't, but we're talking about the negative stereotype here.)

, You don't have to dye your hair if you don't want but have a hair style that suits you.
 You don't have to get piercings if you don't want but it helps to reinforce Seth's sweet-badass-sexy-individual image he has going. Ditto tattoos.

