 If you are concerned about burnout, then it is a good idea to be aware of the warning signs. There are many possible symptoms that might indicate burnout, which may include:Feeling tired or exhausted
Trouble sleeping
Not being able to concentrate
Experiencing physical symptoms, such as gastrointestinal distress, dizziness, headaches, and fainting.
Getting sick frequently
Losing your appetite
Feeling anxious, angry, or depressed.;
, If you don’t get enough rest, you will inevitably deplete your stores of energy, leaving you with less energy to do the same amount. Without it, you greatly increase the chances of having to do too much with too little. It’s a classic recipe for burnout. Try to get seven to nine hours of sleep each night.One of the simplest ways to make sure you can get to sleep easier is by reducing your exposure to light before you go to bed. Turn out bright lights. Stop using your electronic devices — smartphone, tablet, laptop, television, etc. — at least 30 minutes before bed, as these emit a certain kind of light that can keep you awake.
Keep in mind that daytime naps are not an appropriate substitution for sleeping at night. You may be more likely to experience burnout if you sleep during the day and not at night.
 Burn out is an accumulation of unmanaged stress and an unbalanced life. Consider if all of these elements are receiving your attention — social connection, leisure time, emotional wellness, intellectual pursuits, physical wellbeing, spiritual nourishment, and your work. Take a moment to look at your schedule or how you have been spending your time and energy. Are one or two categories taking up most of your time and energy? Do you spend 75% of your energy on work, while things like physical well-being, social connection, leisure, and spirituality fall by the wayside?Notice if you feel like you have some control over your life. Do you laugh and have fun regularly? Can you console yourself when you are upset? Do you know how to manage stress? If not, your life may be unbalanced.
Try making changes with the goal of achieving more balance in your life. For instance, set a goal to cut out processed foods and start eating balanced meals to support your physical well-being. Or maybe you need to designate one night a week to spend with friends and another night to pursue a mentally stimulating hobby.
Consider where you might cut back on your obligations to start making more time for the things you really want to do. Try making a list of your obligations and other activities and rank them from most to least important. Then, try eliminating a few of the less important items from your list. Be willing to say “no” the next time someone asks you to do something that is not a priority for you.
Make sure to be your own advocate at work as well, such as by asking for more reasonable hours, requesting greater compensation or recognition for your work, and asking for changes to your job responsibilities.
 Although its effects on your levels of energy aren’t noticed as immediately as a lack of rest, lack of exercise will make you lethargic and weak. In the same way that a lack of maintenance compromises the ability of your car to operate efficiently, lack of exercise compromises your ability to operate efficiently. That makes dealing with your responsibilities more difficult. Exercising to keep energy levels high doesn’t require the same level of planning as exercising for fitness or weight loss. Any amount is better than none, so take a long walk, a jog, or a bike ride.
Getting regular exercise will also help you sleep better and rest easier, making it less likely for you to burn out.
 Each person’s rituals and quirks are part of what make them unique individuals. If a person is robbed of their sense of individuality, there will be less of them to go around when they need it, which creates the circumstances for burnout.Rituals allow people to feel a sense of control and calm. Not only that — it can actually improve your enjoyment of the moment. In one study, for instance, researchers found that the ritual of lighting candles and singing "Happy Birthday" made birthday cake taste better.Try a morning ritual to set a positive tone for your day. Wake up at the same time, shower or do some stretches, savor your breakfast and catch up on the news, etc.
Yoga, meditation, even cooking a good meal all fit the bill. What the ritual is isn’t all that important, as long as it's something that's soothing and calming for you.
Also, consider whether having a daily routine is helpful for you or if it makes you feel anxious. Keep in mind that it is okay to alternate your routine if you start to get bored with it.
 If you can’t get enough rest, exercise, or observe familiar rituals, at least move around. Changing locations helps change your mindset, and while it won’t prevent burnout all by itself, it can be a big help to keep your mind sharp and your mood in good spirits.Whether changing the scenery is working in the park across the street, telecommuting for a few days a week, or grabbing a bite to eat at the café around the corner, make some time to do it.
 Connecting with others can be a great way to avoid feeling overtaxed, and that applies to people at work or outside of work. Having a good time with friends or acquaintances is a great way to feel renewed and optimistic about the world, and that’s the basic point. Going out to eat, grabbing cocktails after work, or finding a workout buddy would all be good places to start.


Nonetheless, if your source of burnout is related to an issue at work (like an overbearing supervisor), connecting with coworkers can really help blow off some steam. There’s a good chance you’re not the only one who feels the way you do, and that in and of itself can make you feel better.
Keep in mind that if you are introverted, then you may need more time alone. You may also need more time alone if you have many social obligations or if you have a large family.

