 Place a large grill pan on your stove top, and turn the heat to medium-high. Allow the pan to heat for at least 5 minutes, so you can be sure that there are no hot spots that may burn the sandwich.You can also make the grilled cheese on a gas or charcoal outdoor grill or a tabletop grill.
 In a small bowl, combine 6 tablespoons (90 ml) of extra-virgin olive oil, 2 tablespoons (6 g) of chopped fresh oregano, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of red pepper flakes, and kosher salt to taste. Mix well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully combined.You can substitute fresh chopped basil or parsley for the oregano if you prefer.
 When you’ve flavored the oil, use a pastry brush to spread it over the cut sides of 1 baguette that’s been sliced in half horizontally. Place the baguette pieces cut side down in the grill pan, and grill them for approximately 4 minutes, or until they’re toasted.If you don’t have a pastry brush, use heavy duty napkins, paper towel, or coffee filters to spread the oil over the bread. Just make sure to use paper items that aren’t flimsy so they won’t leave bits of paper behind.
 When the baguette pieces are toasted, remove them from the grill pan. Flavor the bread further by rubbing down the cut sides with garlic. Use 1 large clove for each piece of bread.If you aren’t a fan of garlic, you can skip this step.
 After you’ve flavored the baguette with the garlic, take 2 medium tomatoes that have been cut into ¼-inch (6.35-mm) slices and spread them evenly among the two baguette pieces. Next, layer ½ pound (228 g) of sliced provolone cheese over the tomatoes so they’re mostly covered.You may want to season the tomato slices with kosher salt to taste before adding the cheese.
 Place the baguette pieces in the grill pan again with the cover on. Allow the sandwich to cook until the cheese melts, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes., When the cheese on the sandwich is melted, remove it from the grill pan. Sprinkle a bit more kosher salt over it, and drizzle what’s left of the oil mixture over the top of the sandwich as well.You can omit the salt and/or the oil if you prefer.
 Allow the sandwich to cool for 2 to 3 minutes, and then use a sharp knife to cut it into slices. Place the slices on a platter, and serve.Depending on how large you cut the slices, you should get 12 to 16 servings from the grilled cheese.

