 Many people with hair on the straight side are surprised by the natural waves that appear when they use a hair diffuser. Start by getting your hair completely wet. Either wash and condition your hair or run it under the shower, then gently dry it with a towel until it's damp, but not soaking wet.
 After you've washed your hair, you'll need to apply product to help while using the diffuser. You'll need some kind of volumizer as well as a heat protectant.









Products designed to give hair volume can be applied to your roots. You can find volumizing shampoos and conditioners at the super market. Your local salon will likely also sell leave-in products designed to encourage volume. Read the instructions on the products you buy carefully. Some are spray-on and some should be massaged into your scalp.Mousse can work well when you're trying to make straight hair curly. Consider adding a small bit of mousse to your hair, focusing specifically at the roots.As heat can damage hair, a heat protectant is important. This is especially true if your hair is thin. Blow dry sprays and oils are usually sold at local salons. You usually do not need to use more than a drop of such products.If your hair is especially prone to frizz, see if you can find a protectant with a moisturizing agent.
 To do this, use your fingers to lift your roots upward. Push your hair upward into the diffuser, scrunching it into the prongs. Then, continue to dry your hair all around your head using this same process.
 You should always add product when you finish diffusing your hair. The heat process is hard on hair, for one. You also want to add some kind of hair spray to make sure your style stays intact throughout the day.









Gently mist your hair with your favorite brand of hair spray. This will help solidify your new style. Avoid using too much spray. This could cause a strong odor and could also make your hair look stiff.Use pomade or serum to make your hair look soft and natural. Smooth it gently over your hair, running your hands from your roots to the tips of your hair.,