 Doing a simple Google search of yourself will alert you to what information or pictures come up about you. This will help you better assess what things you need to change or add so that the message people see is more positive.Do an incognito Google search to see what the results are. You can open an incognito browser on your phone or computer.
You can open an incognito tab in Chrome by clicking the three vertical dots or horizontal lines in the top right corner of your browser and selecting “open an incognito tab.”
On a phone, if you open your browser, you can often select the icon that looks like two sheets of paper or two rectangles on top of each other. Once you select that, you can enter into “private mode.”;
, After doing an initial Google search of your name, do a few more detailed searches. Search for your first and middle names. Search for your first and last name and the city that you live in. Search for your name and the company you currently work for.

There are likely dozens of people with your name but if you search for yourself in a more detailed manner, you may find more information.
 Facebook has a feature that will allow you to view your page from the perspective of other’s viewpoints. You can simply go to your profile, click the ellipsis by “View activity log” and click “View As”. From here, you can view your page from the perspective of others.You might also consider making another temporary Facebook page that you can use to see how your profile looks to those who you are not friends with.
 The first step you can take in your social media cleanse journey is to delete any inappropriate or unflattering photos of yourself. Should an employer or school search your name or social media accounts, you don’t want them to find photos of you behaving poorly or engaging in any illicit behavior. Consider deleting photos that depict any of the following activities:Drug or alcohol use or photos of you under the influence
Sexual behavior
Nudity
Use of any gang signs or lewd hand gestures

, If you did not personally post the picture, you may need to request removal either from the social media site or from the person who posted it. You can untag these photos so that they don’t show up on your personal pages, but be aware that these images will still be online unless you get them removed., Though this might take some time, go through and review any negative statuses, tweets, or blog posts you may have put out. Delete anything related to sex or drugs or anything you may have posted that could be construed as racist, sexist, or homophobic.Exert extreme caution when posting anything in the future.
 Though employers will not likely care how many friends you have on facebook, you may notice that some on your friends list tag you in inappropriate or spammy posts. Delete any such friends so that they do not damage your online image.If you don’t want to delete them, consider reporting them when they tag you in such things or edit your settings to prevent them from tagging you.
 If you find that you are not truly utilizing all of your social media that much or that you have not checked one for months or years, consider deleting some of your accounts. The less you have, the easier it will be to monitor.Delete any unnecessary apps that you have added onto your social media. For instance, perhaps you play a lot of games on Facebook that crowds your wall or your friend’s newsfeed. Edit your settings so you are not posting each time you play.
 One way to do all of this cleansing a bit quicker is to utilize online services designed to assess problem areas on your social media sites. Consider using websites like Rep’nUp or Reputation defender., At the end of the day, you may have entirely too much to delete. If you feel this is true, you can simply delete all of your social media accounts and start from scratch. This will allow you to be much more intentional with what you post and who you add from here on after. It will also alleviate your worries about what others might or might not being seeing on your pages., In addition to cleaning up your image, you can also work to maintain more privacy so that only those you want to see your information are viewing it. Set all of your accounts to private, particularly while you are still in the clean up stages., You can also restrict who and when you are tagged in any posts. Go into the settings of your social media accounts and request to be sent a notification before being tagged in a picture or post., Another way to establish some privacy online is by not using your full name online. This will make it more difficult for others to find your pages. Consider using only your first and middle name and not your last name for your social media sites if you are looking to keep a low profile., Just as important as it is to remove any negative things from your social media, it is imperative to replace it with positive posts. Share articles that are factual, interesting, and non-inflammatory. Share positive posts about your life, family, and job. This will serve to replace any negative information that was previously circulating., Another way to create a more positive online footprint is to create a blog or website that markets you and your skills positively. Consider creating a blog writing about any interests, whether personal or professional, that you might have. Create a website that showcases your talents.When people google search you, this may be the first thing that comes up, so make sure that it is quality.
 Make sure that any email addresses or social media names that you are using are positive and appropriate. When in doubt over what name to use, simply use your first and middle name. For email accounts, use your first and last name.An example might be heather.chavis@123.com

, Choose a profile picture of you that is good quality, flattering, and not revealing. You can use your professional headshot or a picture of you doing something positive like volunteering or spending time with family.Make sure that your eyes are open, as well.
 You can also like and follow other pages to further rebrand yourself. Follow people whose work aligns with your interests. Share any articles or posts that interest you from these pages. Unfollow any pages that are lewd or obscene in any way., If you are looking to start a business or are recovering from a particularly damaging scandal, you may want to hire an image consultant to help you clean up your online footprint. This person will be able to instruct how and when to post certain information. They will also be able to assist you in deleting or spinning any negative information about you., Finally, as you are entering into this new, cleaner social media presence that you have created, strive to maintain it. Before you post anything, ask yourself the following questions:

Is this true?
Is this positive?
How would I think of someone else if they posted this?
Will it bring joy to others?

