 Every time your company does something noteworthy, send out a notice. If you are just starting out, your local paper may have a section where you can announce your opening.Your release should be short, with a headline that states clearly what you are doing, and a first sentence that repeats and expands on that idea. Since many people will not read beyond the first paragraph, put any important information there. Everything after that is additional information for the truly interested. Close with a standardized bit of "boilerplate," basic information about your company. Find and read other press releases for good examples.
Send your release to local media outlets, such as newspapers (daily and weekly), magazines, radio, and television stations. Contact their editor in advance to warn them about the incoming release, and make sure they have some interest. Otherwise, it could be easy for your release to get lost in a flood of other stories they are working on.
Not all of your notices will get picked up and printed, so don't be discouraged if it does not appear to be going anywhere. They require little effort on your part, and every printing is advertising you didn't pay for.
 Sometimes, the best way to advertise is through simple word-of-mouth. If your customers liked your products or service, ask them to refer others. Depending on the business, you may even want to offer additional deals for customers who give referrals, such as discounts or free giveaways when they refer a certain number of new customers., You will compete for customers, but that does not mean that you cannot help one another as well. Learn what kinds of things they do well, and try to understand how your business is different. Even without revealing all their secrets, other businesses can teach you good practices and avoiding common mistakes.


If you offer some expertise that they don't, or can't, offer, they may be willing to recommend you to their customers, especially if you are willing to reciprocate.
 Groups like the Chamber of Commerce and the Rotary Club provide opportunities to meet other business leaders, and many of them work to promote the interests of all members. In any organization, you get out what you put in, so be involved in meetings and decisions to maximize the advantages available.
 The Chamber of Commerce and other organizations may help put on multi-business events that will attract potential customers. Look for events where your business would be helpful for someone. For example, if you are a make-up artist, you can offer to participate in a local fashion show or bridal event.
 Use your expertise to help local not-for-profits and other volunteering organizations. Free service to charitable organizations is a good way to build goodwill. It demonstrates your commitment to the local community, and can make your customers feel good about doing business with you.


Donating prizes to fundraisers is another way to build goodwill. If you make or sell goods, donate one of your products. If you have a service business donate a gift certificate for your services.
 Certain groups may not even realize what your business has to offer them. If you have a photography business, for example, you could speak to a local travel club and give them tips on how to take great photos on their trips.
 Work in some info about your business, but try not to be too explicit. You may suggest that your business is one good way to solve a problem or issue you are highlighting in the article, rather than saying you are the best or only way to do so., If your business lends itself to a lot of special knowledge, offer to teach some free classes at local venues. You can also sign up to be a teacher for Community Education classes through a local college. This can be a great venue for finding future customers, others with similar interests, and maybe even future employees.


Good local venues for this kind of thing include public libraries with conference rooms, or community centers.

