,, There is one near a church near Armadillo.,,,, If you are doing the Missions with the same horse you will get this soon.,,,!.,,,,, In the way of the video game. Killing is essential so you should get this or pistol one in Mexico

Instinto Asesino. Again some More hideouts in Mexico and America West

, Sons of Mexico and No More Fancy Words. both Trophies will come pretty much straight after each over. Great News you have unlocked the final Area, Unleash your Hunting Skill and start extincting the Buffalo, who are in the Great plains, grazing.,, If you're Like me you can't play poker so get help from your friend but to get up to 2000 chips you may need to join Rockstar who give you a suit that lets you Play in the Prestigious Hotel Poker., It's quite easy to win as usually the computers really stupid so just think about the computers move. never Bluff but if the computer calls a weird bet Bluff., Go to the seven saloons in the game for this and start Brawling, Three Horses, Three Locations, Three Minutes that's how long it took me to get them all, Start in Mexico round Escalara and look for a white horse, go to below Beechers hope and search for a black horse and you should have already unlocked if you have been doing horse breaking., This one's hard so just kill everything and anything and it will unlock remember seagulls can be found in Black water and Ducks can be found beside the Lake in America West., People complain about this type of Trophy, me too but you can just use maps., I started all four Challenges near the end so I could Breeze past them, start in America West, then Mexico, then America East and you should get them, Get the Hungarian half-Breed and kill twenty law men in Armadillio, the U.S Marshalls will come to kill you, when that happens get running away. Just like cops and Robbers, Just complete this story Mission., Another time consuming trophy, you not what to do., And another story Mission, YAY!!, This could be "The Long arm of Marston" if you got this in Mexico {Remember to change weapons, when getting the first one}, The final Story Mission, god bless we will miss you John., Now your Jack and now your dads dead. Raging son. So go talk to some cop guy in the station in Blackwater He while tell you the location of the double crosser agent. Go and complete it and you will have this gold trophy., if you have done treasure hunting you will have got this., Personally I went for Man of honor, so just choose your karma Path., I went through the stress of redeemed. so if you are just make sure you have, Completed the story Missions and Stranger Missions. got all nine outfits, Completed all seven Hideouts, do twenty Bounty Missions {8 America West, 8 Mexican, 4 America East}. mastered all four challenges, Collected all five Rare weapons, tried all five Jobs, one at least once of all six gambling games. Discovered every Location and own all thirteen Safehouses.