 Honey has strong antibacterial properties and a long history of use as a topical treatment for skin complaints and wounds. As with most natural remedies it is not guaranteed to work for everybody, but its antibacterial qualities, which can help to purify your skin, are beyond doubt.Honey's thick consistency also makes it easy to apply to your face.
 If you decide to try a honey treatment try to choose organic rather than processed honey. The enzymes in the honey which will be absorbed into your skin are typically destroyed when honey is processed. Manuka honey is considered to be particularly potent with strong antibacterial properties.


Look for a Manuka honey with a minimum rating of 10 UMF.
This is often marketed as "UMF Manuka Honey" or "Active Manuka Honey"., The most straightforward way to purify your skin with honey is simply to gently massage it onto your face. Spoon or pour a few tablespoons of honey out into a bowl and then, with clean hands, apply it to you face. Leave it to soak in for around 30 minutes, before rinsing it off.If you notice your skin becoming red or feel any irritation remove it quicker.
Keep an eye on your skin, especially the first time you try it.
 An alternative to applying the honey straight onto you face is to soak some gauze or bandages in honey.Honey soaked bandages are sometimes used to help heal wounds, and you can use them help purify your skin.Once the gauze is nicely saturated in the honey place them onto your face.


The stickiness of the honey should mean that they stay on without any problems.
After around half an hour rinse off your face and gently remove the gauze or bandages.
Just do this once or twice a week.
 You can keep honey as a key ingredient in your purifying treatment, but mix it with other ingredients to potentially boost the effect. For this method squeeze out half a lemon, so you have the juice in a bowl or dish. Then add a few drops of honey (a couple of teaspoons) to the lemon and mix it in. Wash your face first, and then rub the mixture onto your face and leave it for around five minutes.Rinse it off with cool water.
The lemon can be harsh on your skin, so rinse it off quickly if it irritates you.
 You can create a mixture of honey and yoghurt to use as a topical treatment to help purify your skin. Pour out 1 tablespoon of honey into a bowl or dish. Then mix in 1 teaspoon of plain yoghurt. Stir it thoroughly. After you have washed your face and hands, massage the mixture onto your face.Leave it for around 10 or 15 minutes before washing it off with warm water.
After you have washed it off you can apply a moisturiser.
Alternatively you can try four tablespoons of yoghurt mixed with two tablespoons of honey., This mixture can be applied before you go to bed and left on all night. Spoon two tablespoons of honey into a small dish. Then drop in a teaspoon of cinnamon powder. Mix it together thoroughly until it forms a paste. Once you have a good consistency, apply it to your face carefully.Allow it to dry before you get into bed.
Rinse it off with warm water in the morning.
Another option is just to rinse it off after 30 minutes.

