 Basically, you want the palm of your hand to be directly underneath the bar. This will make your pull-ups a lot harder, but they will target more of your wrists.


This requires a ton of forearm strength to pull off -- these exercises are for further training, not beginners., Incredibly difficult but worth the effort, this pull-up variation requires you cup your hands on top of a beam or bar so that all of your stabilization comes through the wrist. Start with 1-2, building up until you can do full sets of 8-10.
 Get into position and hold it, aiming for 45 seconds to a minute at a time. Rest for a little longer than you worked out, (if you held for 45 seconds, rest for a minute or so) and then repeat two more times. Any exercise where you must hold your wrists in position while fighting tension will increase your wrist strength. To make it even harder:









Pull the lower half of your torso up so that it is parallel to the ground.
Use the grips mentioned above., These will work your wrist in multiple ways, which is key to avoid only training certain muscles. They hang from the pull-up bar to provide tricky, rounded grips, which will significantly increase forearm, finger, and wrist strength.









You could also use hanging "rock holds," used to help train rock climbers. They can be found at many gyms already, even if they don't have a wall., Stand 5-6 feet away from a wall, leaning towards it so that your hands support you. You'll be diagonally pointed to the wall. Push off your fingers so that the heel of your hand rises off the wall. Then slowly lower them back out and repeat. Perform 15-20 reps.









Move further and further away from the wall to increase the challenge.
 This will hurt if you're not trained, so start on your hands and knees before moving into a plank push-up position. Instead of a normal palms-on-the-floor push-up, curl your hands back towards your feet and rest on the back of your hands. Perform the pushups like normal.









Try them as well with the outside edge of your hands. Can you "walk" forward on your feet and the blades of your hands?, You can also start by resting on your knuckles, with your hands in a fist. This is often a good middle-ground to strengthen your wrists, though you'll need to harden your knuckles first or it will be painful. Try this first on soft surfaces, like carpet or spongy gym floor.
 These full-body holds put a lot of pressure on your wrists, and if you can't keep them stable and strong, you won't be able to hold yourself up. Don't worry if you can't do a full handstand just yet -- you can rest your feet on a wall to keep balance without significantly compromising the wrist workout.Really ready to test yourself? Try a handstand push-up. Simply bend your elbows out to lower yourself to the ground slightly, then push back up to a full handstand. This is much easier with the wall for support.

