 Letting cranberry juice or orange juice sit on grout for a few hours is a sure way to get a new stain. As soon as something is spilled on your floor, wipe it up with a wet rag, removing every last trace.


If a stain is left behind, pour a bit of hydrogen peroxide over it. Let it sit for a minute before wiping it away with a clean cloth.
Dry spills can also stain grout if they are left to be ground into the floor. Sweep up coffee grounds, clumps of dirt, and other solids soon after they are dropped.
 To avoid having to do a deep cleaning too often, treat small stains as they come. Use the same cleaning solution you would use for a deep cleaning, but employ a spray bottle to treat the small area you want to clean. You could also try an alternative small stain-cleaning methods:


Use a baking soda paste. Mix baking soda with a little water to make a paste, and then rub it into the stained section of grout. Let it sit for a few minutes, then use an old toothbrush to scrub it away.
Use white toothpaste. Squirt some toothpaste directly onto the grout in question, then rub it in using your finger. After a few minutes, use an old toothbrush to scrub the area. Wipe it up with a clean wet rag.
Use a pencil eraser. For the smallest stains, a pencil eraser does a surprisingly good job. Choose an eraser that is white, rather than stained a different color, or you may end dyeing your grout the color of the eraser.
 Mold and mildew often affect grout in bathrooms, which tend to stay wet and steamy for hours at a time. Use an exhaust fan after taking a shower or bath, and wipe up wet tile to keep your grout from getting moldy.
 Once a year, applying a commercial grout sealer can help prevent spills from quickly seeping into the pores in the grout, and it helps with bathroom mold and mildew. Choose a grout sealer from your hardware store and apply it according to the manufacturer's instructions.
 Sometimes keeping grout white just isn't practical. If you dye your hair, have kids who like to use paints in the kitchen, or just don't want to deal with keeping it sparkling white, consider getting a grout stain and using it to dye the grout a different color. You can choose a color that matches your tile or something completely different for a contrasting effect.
 Older grout starts to crack and crumble, and it gets worse as moisture seeps in and degrades the floor underneath over time. Replacing your grout when necessary is worth the trouble because it makes it easier to clean and prevents mold and mildew from taking hold as often.

