 Dogs need appropriate shelter. At minimum, that means space to move around, climate control, and clean bedding.Start by picking a dog that’s suited to the space you have. For instance, it’s not a good idea to get an active, territorial breed, like a German Shepard, if you live in a studio apartment. Don’t get a high-energy dog like a Border Collie if you don’t have a yard or nearby field where it can run around.
Keep your dog warm in cold weather and cool in hot weather. Because of their fur and limited perspiration, dogs are easily affected by the heat. Never leave them in a car or place without shade.
Give your dog a designated place to sleep, whether it be a blanket, dog bed, or crate. If you choose to use a crate, be sure that it’s just big enough for your dog to stand up, sit, lie down, and turn around in.When you first bring a new puppy home, it is especially important to have a specific area available only for your puppy. If there are other pets in the home, such as a cat, it is crucial to keep them separated for at least one to two weeks. During that time, they will adjust to each other by scent and will be less likely to provoke each other later., “Dog-proof” your house before your pet arrives. That means moving anything that’s valuable and/or breakable out of their reach, blocking access to any area you want to be dog-free, and securely storing any potentially toxic substances.Keep garbage cans either out-of-reach (in a low cabinet or in a closed pantry), or make them impossible to get into (using a can with a closed lid). Dogs are often attracted to eating garbage. If you don’t deny them access to it, it’ll create a mess for you to clean up and health problems for them.
Keep cleaning agents and other poisonous household substances, like antifreeze, out-of-reach.
 Grown-up dogs need to urinate at least every 8 to 10 hours; puppies every few hours. Besides taking your pet on walks, get in the habit of letting them out first thing in the morning, directly before bed, and after mealtimes. Doing so will keep them healthy and your floors safe from accidents.Make regular stops if you take your dog on a long road trip, so that he can get out for some exercise and have a drink of water. Never leave your dog unattended in the car!

, It’s essential to let your dog out, so be sure that the outside is safe for their sake and contained for the sake of your neighbors. Outdoor areas should have a controlled border, established by physical or invisible fencing. Keep dangerous tools (like axes) and substances (like fertilizer) in locked storage.Check for holes in the fences or gates, especially if you have a small dog. If you have a puppy, you might want to put wire over gates with gaps in them as very small dogs may be able to fit through the bars.
Some plants, like poinsettias or holly bushes, are poisonous to dogs. Do an online search for which species are toxic to canines, and then keep them out of reach or remove them to keep your dog safe.
 At the very least, you’ll need a food dish, water bowl, collar and/or harness, leash, toys, and bedding. Many people also get a carrier case and crate. Local pet shops can help you pick the most appropriate supplies for your breed of dog.