 The first step in running or walking a half marathon after a heart attack is to gain approval from your doctor.Tell your doctor you will start with a five kilometer race and then gradually build up your miles until you are able to train for a half kilometer event.If your doctor approves of your plan, you can begin training. You might consider asking the following questions:


Do you think I am in good enough shape yet to start training for a half marathon?
When do you think I could start training for a half marathon?

, If you are getting back into racing after a heart attack, it is best to start with a five kilometer event. After the five kilometer race, give your body plenty of time to rest and then start training for the half marathon., When training for a half marathon after a heart attack, you will want to adapt an existing walking program to allow for a more gradual increase of miles.Commonly available walking training programs last sixteen weeks, so try doubling the length of the training period to thirty two weeks. Add one week after each of the existing weeks in the program. In each of the added weeks, repeat the regular training walks from the prior week. When it is time for the long walk, make it the average of the length of the previous and coming weeks' long walk distances. In this manner, you will be cutting the weekly long walk mileage increases in half


If you are walking, your first week of training might involve two walks of thirty-five minutes, a thirty-minute walk, and an endurance walk of three miles. It will also involve two days of rest and one day of cross training., If you have recently experienced a heart attack, you will want to adapt an existing running program to meet your needs. If you find a typical sixteen week running program, try doubling the length of the training period to thirty-two weeks. Add an extra week after each of the existing weeks in the program, for a total of thirty-two weeks. In the new weeks, repeat the regular training runs from the prior week and design the weekly long run to be the average distance of the previous and coming weeks' long runs.


If you use the three plus two training program, the first week will involve track repeats, a short tempo run, and a long run of 12.5 kilometers or 8 miles. In addition, you will have two cross training workouts., Once you have started with your training program, you should avoid skipping any weeks in the program. If you happen to miss a day in the program, try to make it up that week. It is important to stay on track with the program, so that you gradually build up your fitness level and are ready to compete at the half marathon event.


If you are not feeling up to it, you can skip a weekly run or walk and talk to your doctor. If you miss too many training days, you may want to consider dropping out of the race. You can always keep up your running or walking routine and sign up for an event that gives you more time to prepare.
 Throughout your training program, you should be mindful of your heart. If you are feeling any pain in your chest or shortness of breath, you should stop exercising and see a doctor. If you are feeling faint or excessively fatigued after a training run or walk, you should talk to your doctor and reassess your fitness program., It is important to fuel your workouts with a healthy diet.A healthy diet of thirty percent healthy fat, thirty percent protein, and forty percent complex carbohydrates may work for you. Also, avoid binging and junk food while training., After completing your training program, which may last between fourteen and sixteen weeks, you can go ahead and race the event. Try to run in an event that has medical and emergency staff on hand. Relax, stay hydrated and enjoy yourself.
 It is important to schedule a recovery period after running or walking the half marathon. Your body will need time to repair itself and fully recover after the event, so you may want to take a break from exercise for a short period of time. The amount of recovery time you need should be determined in close consultation with your doctor.