 Use this list to develop a short speech that can guide the discussion with your mom.


If you want to write your entire statement out and read it word-for-word, that’s fine, but it’s better to engage in natural conversation with your mother.
If you’re really creative, you could put together a PowerPoint presentation about why she should let you hang out with your friend.This will show her that you are serious and that your friend means a lot to you, even though she disapproves of them.
 Talking to your mom is probably best during the weekend, or after dinner during the week.


Do not try talking to your mom in the morning, when the crunch of rushing off to work and shoveling down a quick breakfast might make her indisposed to pay full attention to what you have to say.
Similarly, don’t talk to your mom too late in the day, when she will be tired and preparing for bed.
 For instance, you might promise to be home at a certain hour, or to stay home and babysit your kid brother tomorrow. Whatever your situation, try to find something your mom wants and use it to sweeten the deal., Be clear about what you want and why you should be allowed to hang out with your friend. Appeal to your mom’s logic and sense of fairness. Acknowledge her point of view by saying, “I know you disapprove of my friend, but here’s why you should approve of him/her…”


Encourage empathy.Your mom might have forgotten what it was like to be your age. Ask her to remember a time when she was younger and her mom told her that she wasn’t allowed to hang out with a friend. How did it make her feel?
Be polite to your mom. Don’t say, “It’s really stupid that you won’t let me hang out with my friend.” That will not encourage her to change her mind, and could actually steel her resolve against allowing you to hang out with your friend.
Nod when your mother asks a question. This behavior shows you are listening and being respectful.
 If you insist on a decision immediately, your mom might continue to reject the notion of you and your friend hanging out. By giving her some time to make a decision and process everything you’ve said more carefully, you improve your odds of getting a good response.
 If she allows you to hang out with your friend, keep her informed about what you and your friend are doing. Tell her where you plan on going and when. If your plans change, let her know.This will show her that she was right to trust you, and dispose her toward giving you more freedom with other friends in the future, even if she initially disapproves of them.


If she decides to stand firm in her decision and continues to forbid you from hanging out with the friend, ask her why. Think about how you can alleviate her specific concerns and take action to do so.
If she still says no after you’ve talked things over with her, don’t whine, pout, or yell about her decision.

