 Ask the veterinarian to recommend a local animal shelter that frequently has hounds. Ensure that the shelter is a registered 501(c)(3) charity and is run by a board of directors. The shelter should have volunteers working with the animals and the animals should be well taken care of.The animal shelter should be clean, well-run, and organized. The animals shouldn't be crowded and they should get medical attention while they're at the shelter.
 Visit the animal shelter and spend time looking at the hounds they have up for adoption. Once you think you've found a hound you'd like to adopt, take the time to play with it and get to know it a little. You should also spend time with several other hounds even if you think you've made up your mind about one hound. This will give you a chance to compare personalities and temperaments.


Don't feel rushed to choose a hound on the first visit. If you don't feel a strong connection to a hound, you can always wait a little bit and return.
 While your specific shelter or agency's application may be unique, most adoption applications will ask for your basic contact information. They'll also want to know about your home environment so they can ensure that the dog will be in a safe environment and will be looked after. Most applications also ask for:Employment information
Who lives in your house (other pets and people)
How much time and money you expect to spend on your hound
Landlord permission to own pets (if you're renting)

, Check with the shelter about any fees they charge to adopt a hound dog. Usually, these fees go towards giving the dog medical treatment. For example, the hound dog may get spayed or neutered, be tested for heart worm, get vaccinations, be microchipped, and get any preventative treatments (like flea control).Fees may vary depending on the age of the hound dog. Be prepared to pay several hundred dollars in fees to adopt your dog.
 Most adoption agencies will require personal references to prove that you can care for a hound dog. You may need to give one or two references that could be friends or family (as long as they don't live in the house with you). You'll have to give the phone numbers for your references so the agency or shelter can call and talk with them about you.Let your references know that they should expect a call from the animal shelter before you use them as references.

