 Know whether or not the host knows you are planning to attend. In some cases, you may have to receive a formal invite to be allowed in or considered a guest. In others, like for dances or casual parties, word may get around and there may be no strict guest list. If you attend school, figure out if your grade is allowed to attend, and if it's a part at someone's house, find out if it's a set guest list or the type of bash where anyone who's heard about it is welcome to come.;
, You'll want to know in advance where, when, and why and event is taking place. The first two questions are obvious, but the second is just as important- you don't want to show up at a birthday bash, baby shower, etc. empty handed, do you? Even dances can have a specific purpose- often they are run as charity events and to raise money. Make sure to find these things out, as well as who or what establishment is hosting the get together, whether or not there will be a fee to get in, who is attending, and what the guests are expected to wear or bring.
 Depending on your age, you may or may not be able to drive yourself. If the place is in walking distance from your house, even better! If you can't get yourself there on your own, look to a parent or older sibling for a ride. If none can be provided, look towards a friend you know is attending for a ride. Public transportation is another option. However, even more important than getting there is getting home! If the person driving you there can't drive you back, or something else hinders your ability to get back the way you came, try to find another way home. Another good idea is to have a back up plan- someone to call or a way to get home if your planned route back gets scrambled. This is especially important if there will be alcohol at the party, as you should never drink and drive or get into a car with a driver who has drunken.
 If you're a girl, this is probably of more importance to you, but don't worry, guys, there's some stuff here you should know, too! Start by finding out the formality of this event. If you're at a loss, ask your friends or other attendees what they think and what they will be wearing. When in doubt, dress up a little, because it's easier to tone your look down if it's too formal than to go the other way around. For girls, a nice skirt, pair of slacks, or even jeans can be acceptable, depending on the formality of the event. A dress can also be acceptable, and can be made less formal with leggings and a shirt underneath. A polo shirt, blouse, cardigan, or t shirt are good choices for tops, and play with fun accessories. For your hair, go with something low-fuss, as you don't want to be fumbling with it the whole time. A nice up-do or half-up, half-down hairstyle is pretty and easy. Makeup can be fun to play with, too, but take the event into consideration. For a beach wedding, for example, keep it low key. For shoes, ballet flats can go formal or casual. Sandals and boots are another idea. For guys, jeans or slacks and a button down is universally flattering. A nice blazer is also an option. T shirts and hoodies are fine for casual events. Sneakers or dressy shoes are options for footwear. Remember to check the weather!

, Decide on your outfit ahead of time. Begin to get ready an hour before you plan to leave. Shower- it'll keep you feeling cleaner longer. Make sure that everything is arranged ahead of time, and that you have extra money with you, as well as your charged cell phone. Be sure to have your driver's license, any id, directions, and maps on hand as well.
 Have fun. Try not to over-think things or worry too much. If you plan ahead of time, you'll not only be averting disaster, but you'll be prepared if one occurs. So, enjoy yourself!

