 It will be easier to find and organize your documents when you store everything in one place. You might not have time to organize your documents regularly. As long as they are in the same place, it will be easier to sort and organize them when you are ready to do so.Put your documents in a location that's easy to access so you can add to it throughout the school year.
Choose a place out of the way of small children's hands (to avoid items being destroyed!).
 Once you start collecting your child’s schoolwork, you will need to choose which items to keep or you may be overrun with material. Begin by selecting items that you will want to look at in the future, especially any work that you really like. You might choose to only keep specific kinds of materials, like tests, stories that have a special connection, special projects, and certificates and awards.Involve your child in the process and ask which schoolwork and projects they want to keep. You might need to limit the number of items they are allowed to choose or they might want to keep everything.
Do not keep any duplicates., Learning how other people organize schoolwork can give you some helpful ideas. Let your child’s teachers know that you are collecting examples of educational milestones and ask what they think are important documents from their classes. You can also ask other parents about the types of schoolwork they keep and how they store it. If your child is in a class with their children, you can also suggest sharing photos and videos about your children’s school year.


Teachers’ classroom displays can give you ideas for organizing your collection of documents. Your child will likely want to keep any of their work that the teacher displayed.
 Putting your documents into binders and photo albums is a simple way to organize them. It will be easier to look back on your child’s schoolwork when it is neatly arranged in a binder or album than if it is in a box. You can organize documents and memorabilia by grade level, educational subject (math, science, English), or by type of material (tests, report cards, stories).Photo albums can focus on specific events, like school plays.


To organize materials into a binder, insert your documents and mementos into page protector sheets and arrange those in the binder in chronological order.
CDs, DVD-ROMs, or flash drives with recordings, photos, and videos can also go in the page protector sheets.
Label the outside of your binders and photo albums so you will be able to identify the contents easily.

