 If your cat has been eating its food from dishes that are on an elevated area or are in a spot that takes some agility to get to, you may need to move them. Watch as your cat goes to its food dish and assess whether the cat is having a hard time getting to it. If it is, then the food dish needs to be moved.In many cases, cat food dishes are placed in high spots so that other animals in the house don't eat them. If this is the case for you, try to find a spot that your cat can easily get to but that your other animals can't access.
If your cat is losing weight or showing less interest in its food, it can help to put its food in a place where it can get easier access.;
, As your cat gets older it is very important that it has easy access to its food. If your senior cat has to fight off other cats or other animals to get its food, that may impact its ability to get enough food as it ages. If this is the case for your senior cat, feed it in a location where other cats are not around, such as in a closed room.


This will help assure that your senior cat has the time and ability to get as much food as it needs.
 Placing water dishes on kitchen counters or other high spots can make it difficult for your senior cat to get enough water. If your older cat is looking dehydrated or having a hard time getting to its water dish, then you may need to move the dish.Consider luring your cat to water even more. Invest in a water fountain for your cat, which recirculates water and creates a trickling noise and movement that lures most cats to it.If your senior cat has mobility issues, try placing multiple water dishes around your home. This will help the cat to get enough water.
 As your cat gets older it may need a more comfortable bed to allow it to sleep and rest comfortably. Watch your cat throughout the day and decide whether it is having a hard time getting comfortable. If it is, the cat may need a more comfortable bed.A cat that paces and cries at night may simply be uncomfortable when it is trying to sleep. Try giving it a new bed to sleep on and see if that makes the cat more comfortable.
 In addition to having a comfortable bed, your cat may need a warmer space as it gets older. If your senior cat is avoiding its bed and choosing to nap next to a heat vent or sunny spot, then you know it needs more warmth. Place your cat's bed in a warm and cozy space where it is not exposed to cold temperatures or drafts.If your home is normally relatively cool, consider getting your cat a heated bed. These are available at pet stores and online. They provide a gentle warming to keep your senior cat nice and warm.
 As your cat gets older it may need to spend more time in peace and quiet. Pay attention to where it spends its time and if that has been changing. If your cat is hiding away from the action of the house, give it a comfortable place to do that.Place the cat's bed or a soft cushion for it to nap on in a quiet corner of your home.
Remember that you need to keep the cat's bed in a location where it is easily accessible, even if it is placed in an out of the way spot.
 If your senior cat has a favorite spot that it is having a hard time getting to, consider giving it some help. Provide a ramp or smaller steps up to its favorite spot in the window or up onto a piece of furniture it loves to curl up on.


Giving your cat the ability to continue doing things that it loves will help keep it happy and healthy.
 Watch your cat go to its litter box and make sure it can get to it easily. If getting to the box requires agility or flexibility, then it may need to be moved to a different location.


For example, if the cat spends most of its time on one floor of your home but the litter box is on another floor, then the senior cat may have to expend too much energy climbing stairs to get to it.
 As your cat gets older, it may be harder for it to get to its litter box in time when it needs to go to the bathroom. If your cat is moving slower than it used to or having accidents in the house when it hasn't in the past, you may need to give it some assistance by putting litter boxes in several locations in your home.Remember, having the inconvenience of dealing with more than one litter box in your home is better than the inconvenience of your senior cat having accidents in your home.
 If you suspect that your cat is having mobility problems, you should watch it as it gets in and out of its litter box. If there are any signs of pain or discomfort when accessing its litter box, you should consider getting it one that is easier to get in and out of.The litter boxes that are easiest for senior cats to get in and out of have low sides or a lowered entrance area.

