 Cut a wing-part from the straw. Note that it's divided into two sections by the concertina part of the straw. The wing section is shorter than the backbone.








Cut open the short wing piece as shown.








Then, fold the wing piece in half, as shown.
 Make sure to keep the wings connected at the middle., It is helpful to enlarge this picture to see the extent of the feathering required., In this part, you will be shaping the tail and the backbone. Refer back to the diagram in step 1 for the correct cutting points.

Press down on the straw on either side of the concertina part of the straw. Don't flatten the concertina part itself, however.






Leaving a little even space on each side of the folded line, start cutting down the backbone piece of the straw following alongside the folded edge, as shown.






Continue cutting this piece until you reach the concertina portion of the straw.
 This will divide the remaining piece exactly in half.







As before, continue cutting down the folded line until you reach the concertina part of the straw.
 The piece that is still folded is the backbone and tail. See the image, the fatter piece is still folded and is the piece that was cut alongside the folded line, not on it., Take the concertina part of the straw and bend it into what looks like a bird's neck shape.





 Sideways view

Try to approximate how it appears here.
 Turn the straw around to the shorter end above the concertina part. Return to the figure set out in step 1 and follow the exact cutting points outlined there.







Pull the cut piece away to reveal the beak shape.
 Take each of the wide pieces and bend them, then wrap them around the backbone piece, as shown. You're about to create a knot at this point. Refer back to previous steps to help you keep track of each piece.,







Pull into shape to create a neat and symmetrical knot. Don't make it too tight as you'll need to loosen it shortly for adding the wings.






The two fat pieces (the legs that will slide into the cage piece) should be facing forward when you are finished, in front of the neck and below the beak.
 Slide the wings through this space and ensure that they're sitting evenly. Retighten the knot., Cut off the long piece so that a short tail remains, as shown by the image.







Feather the tail. As with the wings, make small evenly spaced slits to create a feathered tail look. You can stop here if you want just a bird, or you can proceed to making a cage for it as well, as outlined in Part 2.
, Following the image provided in step 1 of Part 2, cut the straw into eight equal parts, lengthwise. The cuts should only come as far as the valley fold line indicated on the figure., Following the figure, you will need to make both mountain and valley folds, as outlined on the figure.

Valley folds: Pull each of the eight pieces out from the straw (toward you if you're rotating the straw) and bend into position. The valley fold extends from the point where you ended cutting the eight pieces.

Mountain folds: Looking at the diagram in Step 1, Part 2, fold each of the eight pieces that have been folded outward up toward you so that stick up like a mountain.
 You are going to be using this piece as a ring to thread over the other part of the straw.







The resulting ring seen apart from the rest of the straw.
 Make sure each piece is included; this may take some steady handwork.







Thread it to about three quarters of the way down the cut straw pieces, as shown here.
 The curls are designed to prevent the ring piece from slipping off the cage when you push it back up toward the top. Take the ends of each cut piece of straw and roll it over firmly to create a curl shape.







Repeat for each piece until all are curled.








Pull out the valley/mountain folds evenly to form the sides of the cage. Adjust until the entire structure sits together properly and looks like a cage.
 The legs should slide straight into the hollow at the base of the cage., Enjoy your tweeting bird, or if you made it in blue, your "Twitter bird", in its cage!