 Combustion is a chemical process by which hydrocarbons and oxygen react to release energy and form carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2O). This is commonly known as “burning.” For example, when you light a piece of wood on fire, the hydrocarbon chains in the wood are reacting with oxygen (or oxidizing) at a rapid rate. The reaction is exothermic (gives off energy), and energy is released in the form of heat and light (the flame). This process is the same process that low explosives undergo to detonate.For example, think about what happens when you ignite gunpowder. The spark provides the energy needed to start the reaction, and then the carbon is oxidized. The rapid formation of gas (CO2 and H2O) propels the bullet from the gun.
 Low explosives create an explosion rapidly converting a solid or liquid to a gas via combustion. Generally, gases expand (increase their volume) more than a liquid or solid. Since they are contained and the volume cannot be increased, the pressure inside the container builds. When the container can no longer hold the pressure, all of the gas comes rushing out at once, creating an explosion.You can safely observe the effect of expanding and contracting gases with a balloon.
Most explosives use molecules that form gas when they break down. TNT, for example produces large amounts of nitrogen gas when the intermolecular bonds are broken.
Electron withdrawing molecules (usually nitrogen or oxygen) are often bonded to each other in unstable ways. This makes the explosive material prone to breaking those bonds in favor of forming a gas (O2 or N2 for example)., Put simply, an activation barrier is the amount of energy that must be put into a chemical system before that system will react. Primary explosives have a low activation barrier (you can set some of them off with an accidental bump). Secondary explosives have a high activation barrier (it requires an explosion to even start the reaction). Low explosives also tend to have a low activation barrier (susceptibility to heat) while high explosives can have a low activation barrier in some cases (think nitroglycerine) and a high activation barrier in other cases (think C-4).Compounds with high activation barriers can be mixed with other compounds to reduce the activation barrier. For example, thermite must reach approximately 2,000 °F (1,090 °C) to ignite, but military grade thermite (TH3) contains additives that lowers the ignition temperature.