 Think of the person, their age, the circumstances they need a pleasant distraction from, and what will most comfort and delight them. Things like a giant Hershey chocolate bar with almonds, or chicken noodle soup packets, some nice pamper products bought a while ago, like shower gel, peppermint foot lotion, purse sized packages of tissues, and lip balm! Good eats include packs of gum, a package of popcorn, a nice mug stuffed with packets of instant apple cider or hot cocoa. Puzzles, gourmet tea packets, cold medicine, soda crackers, inspirational “Get Well” quotes, Goldfish, Dole Fruit Bowls, Get Well “pills” (candy coated mints), and a nice get well card. All these are wonderful spring boards! More personal items could be the book you just finished that you couldn't put down, the awesome football game you recorded- slap it on a blank DVD- or a great movie! Write or type up memories of the person, if you have time. Cut off each & roll up, then tie or tape them up. Tell them to open one a day, like a fortune cookie! Have a small photo album from the $1 store? Fill it with pictures of you and your friend, or funny things that will cheer them: cartoons, inside jokes, memories, etc. Write either a lovely, or goofy, poem. You can employ all kinds of crazy-awesome things that are free! Doing these may take a little time, but if that's what it takes to touch a heart, so be it!;
, Looking at what you've collected, see if there could be a theme with those items. A theme can be fun, but being thought of- even if it's a bunch a random stuff with no point but to cheer you- is always delightful! Theme ideas can be based on their sickness, what you think will help them feel better, or just something they are crazy about. You can put together a pamper package for a girl, a movie night or football/sports package for a boy, or man. Some good themes are the straight up Get Well, Make 'em Laugh (all things funny), Hawaiian, Fiesta, Spa Day, Hygiene Kit (make sure you include a new toothbrush and TP), Big Kid (whoopie cushion, crayons and color book, balloons, frisbee, marbles, sidewalk chalk and silly string), Romance (flowers, chocolates, homemade coupons for kisses, hugs and help with chores), Serviceman or Student away from home (backyard dirt or grass clippings in a baggie, pillowcase sprayed with cologne or perfume- anything that smells like home- and candy or fudge you make at holidays). You get the picture. Dream up your own theme, but most important is find what will do your friend the most good, be comforting, help them get better, and feel loved. Still idea-less? this may seem like a desperate measure to some, but you might consider praying to know, or meditating about, what to give them. See what come to your mind! Sometimes this yields the most remarkable, surprising results if you have just a little faith!

, Two things now need to be decided: first, do you want to package, decorate, or wrap any individual items- and second, what container will be just big enough that your goodies fit, but still look abundant?

, Wrapping items can be overdone, so just adorn one or two, unless the point is to have them unwrap everything for fun! You can also put things like a tube of lotion, cookies, or a Christmas ornament in small cellophane bags. Tie with a ribbon or raffia, a metallic bread tie, new shoe laces if it's a shoehorn, or even dental floss if it's a new toothbrush! Let your mind go wild! Print a photo and a little message on cardstock and wrap it around a giant candy bar. Lots of you have scrapbook paper from before you went digital. Use these colorful, printed papers in your packages to wrap items, make thoughtful, homemade cards, and use scraps to band around items like a bar of fine soap, and tie raffia over top. If you don't have time, it's still good. Finding a container: if you have just a few small things- a tea bag, a Chapstick, a $1 store necklace- go to your closet, the $1 Store or Variety Store to find a small treasure box. Here is a trick- if your basket, bowl, bag, decorative or plain box, or kidney shaped bed pan is too big, here is what you do. Just take some colored paper/ Sunday paper funnies, and wad it up as a base for your items. Or buy some sparkly shredded tinsel used in gift bags, or use a small, clean throw pillow or make a custom pillow if you sew, or a little throw blanket at the bottom to take up space. If the extra mile is desired, wrap the whole deal in a cellophane bag/wrap and tie at the top. In your collection of things to give, are there odd shapes- like a rolled up poster, or a basketball? Just find a big enough container, and work it!! Be a little creative. Anyone can come up with something, and if it looks disastrous, well, consider the person you are giving it to. If it is your best friend who has a great sense of humor- he/she will adore your vulnerability. If it is your somewhat critical neighbor, boss, mother-in-law (they get a bad rap, but most are just lovely), then get a creative thinker to help you get your own "out of the box" juices flowing.

