 The IRS provides trained personnel to answer your tax questions online, in person, and by phone. Make sure you have all of your documentation with you when you look up information.This includes W2 forms, statements of interest income, business receipts, any receipts from donations that are tax deductible, tuition payments etc.
For online help, including forms, publications, answers to frequently asked questions, e-filing information, tax tips, and online tools, visit the IRS’s 1040 Central website. For help in person, visit a Taxpayer Assistance center. You can check for the location nearest you on the IRS website.
For help with your taxes over the phone, call the IRS. You will be directed to the right office to answer your questions.
 This is a free service offered by the IRS to help low to moderate income families file their taxes.The current guidelines for qualification for VITA are for individuals and families who earn less than $53,000.00 a year, disabled people, or individuals with limited English speaking ability.
The VITA program has several sites in most major cities across the country, usually at community and neighborhood centers, libraries, schools, shopping malls, and other convenient locations.
To locate the nearest VITA site near you, you can use the VITA Locator Tool on the IRS website or call 1-800-906-9887.When you locate a center you will need to bring several items with you: proof of identification (photo ID), Social Security Cards for you and all family members, birthdates for you and all family members, wage and earning statements from the income tax year, interest statements from the bank, health insurance statements, a copy of last years federal and state tax returns, and proof of a bank account (routing number and account number). If you are married and filing jointly, both spouses will need to be present to sign the forms.
If you have children in daycare, make sure you bring any bills or statements with you to see if you qualify for a tax rebate.
 The AARP works with the IRS’s Tax Counseling for the Elderly (“TCE”) program to offer IRS trained volunteers to assist seniors with their income tax returns. The AARP also runs a program called Tax Aide for low income families and individuals. The income guidelines for the Tax Aide program are the same as those for the VITA program.
Once volunteer sites begin opening in late January and early February you can locate a site near you by visiting the AARP website. If you have difficulty leaving your home, the Tax Aide program may be able to send someone to you in select cities.
Tax sites are usually open through April 15th.
 The AFTC works in partnership with the VITA Program to bring fee income tax preparation assistance on base, to members of the armed forces.Your local legal office can put you in contact with the AFTC.
Military families also qualify for help with the IRS VITA program.
If you are in the military, contact the AFTC or the IRS to locate an office for assistance with your taxes.

