 These gas-causing foods include peas and broccoli, which have high amounts of indigestible sugars. Foods with indigestible fibers, such as beans, should also be avoided. Avoid milk products, like cheese and fluid milk, as well., Low-cost dog food is made with fillers like corn and soy, which dogs cannot digest. These fillers keep the price down but their indigestible nature can result in everything from allergies to dog flatulence. Premium food costs more but it is made with higher amounts of digestible ingredients.


Begin feeding an anti-flatulence dog diet gradually. This can be done by incorporating the old and new foods together, gradually increasing the amount of the new food while decreasing the quantity of the old food at each feeding. Sudden dietary changes can exacerbate dog flatulence problems.
 Many human foods are beneficial for dogs, but processed foods and sugary snacks can upset your dog's stomach and create gas. Never feed your dog prepackaged, commercially-produced foods made for human consumption.
 This will help them to help slow down consumption.
 This will help add good bacteria to the intestines which may help with flatulence. Probiotics are available in several forms: liquid (usually refrigerated), powder, tablet or capsule.


These supplements can also help with looser stool and diarrhea.
You can use products for dogs or you can use human products.If you have questions about dosing, consult your veterinarian.
 Waltham dog food company experimented with adding activated charcoal, Yucca schidigera, and zinc acetate to the intestinal tract via a treat and flatulence improved by 86%.There are also special low residue diets that have been formulated to increase the digestibility of the dog food and therefore decrease gas production. These diets are sold through your veterinarian’s office.
, When dogs eat too fast they ingest air, which gets expelled as flatulence. To slow your dog down while eating, purchase a bowl specifically designed to make eating a more challenging endeavor.


There are bowls designed to slow food intake. Search online or at your local pet supply store to purchase one.
You can also add appropriately-sized balls into your dog's existing bowl to help slow down mealtime.
 Breaking up mealtimes will give your dog time to digest smaller food portions throughout the day instead of forcing one large meal into the intestines at one time. Smaller amounts of food in the gastrointestinal tract means fewer chances for indigestible substances to react with intestinal bacteria.
 Instead of using a dog bowl consider placing small piles of food throughout your home and yard. This interactive feeding method prevents your dog from eating too quickly and ingesting air. Foraging for food also provides interactive stimulation and positive instinctual behavior which results in a more satisfied, mentally-balanced dog.

