 The first thing to do when you are deciding how to deal with a stain is to work out what caused it. The principal thing to determine is whether it is an oily, or a non-oily stain. It’s important to figure this out because it influences what you’re first step will be.


The majority of chemical stain removers are designed to work on all kinds of stains. Finding out if it is an oily or non-oily stain is mainly to direct your immediate response.
Tips for which home made stain removers work best for specific stains are highlighted in the third method.;
, If the stain is oily, avoid the obvious temptation to rinse it under cold water straight away. Oil repels water, so any water than comes into contact with the stain could contribute to it setting more strongly.Instead, dab it with a dry paper towel. Oily stains have a variety of sources, but most commonly include:


Grease stains.
Mascara.
Lipstick.
Foods which are rich in oil or butter.
 If the stains comes from a non-oily source, then usually the first thing to do is dab off any excess and the rinse it in cold water. If you hold the garment under the tap so that the water is hitting the back of stain, it can help to flush out the stain from behind.Holding the stained side facing the flow of water could press the stain further into the fabric. Typical non-oily stains on white clothes can include:


Sweat stains.
Non-oil based makeup.
Foods that aren’t oily.
Blood.
Dirt.
 You can buy stain removal sprays, liquids and powders from your local store. There will most likely be quite a variety of products available, so look for that is designed to work on white clothes if possible. The next step is simply to apply the stain removal powder or liquid to the stain according to the instructions on the packaging.









Some products will recommend you apply it to the edges of the stain, others at the heart of the stain.
Generally, you won't need to apply a particularly large amount for a small stain.
 Once you have applied the stain remover, you simply put it into your washing machine and wash it as normal. Be sure to read the instructions carefully before you do this to check if the product you have recommends a particular temperature.

