 Whether you live in apartment building, are staying in a hotel, or work in a tall building, familiarize yourself with its floorplan and evacuation routes. Know the shortest and fastest path to the nearest stairwell, and know where any alternative exit routes is located. Talk to the building’s superintendent or management personnel about specific emergency procedures., Never take an elevator in the event of a fire emergency. Every now and then, practice taking the stairs if you live in an apartment building or work in a high rise. Make sure you’re familiar with how many flights there are and how long it takes to descend the stairwell. Use handrails and step to the right (or to the appropriate side as determined by your building’s emergency protocol) to make room for any emergency responders ascending the stairwell.


Turn back if you notice smoke coming from lower levels of a staircase. If possible, make your way to the building’s roof. Keep the door to the roof open to help clear smoke from the lower levels of the staircase, which will help those who might be incapacitated and allow emergency responders easier access.Once on the roof, make your way upwind (walk in the direction the wind is blowing), call emergency services if you haven’t already done so, and let them know your exact location.
 Tell your building’s management personnel about any potential difficulty you or someone in your office or household by have escaping via a stairwell.


If you use a wheelchair and cannot use a stairwell, try to find someone in the immediate area who can assist or carry you down the stairs. Call your local fire department's non-emergency number ahead of time to let them know about your mobility requirements in the event of a fire.
If there is no elevator available and you're stuck on an upper floor, let emergency services know your exact your location and create window signals using any available means.
 If you’re staying at a hotel, be sure to keep your key card handy as you evacuate your room and floor. In the event that the hallway or stairwells are blocked, you’ll need to return to your room, seal off any cracks around your door, cover vents, and use a flashlight or light article of clothing to signal your location in the window.Remember to check your room’s doorknob before you exit in case there is a fire in the hallway.
If you work in a high rise office, follow similar procedures in case all means of exit are blocked. Close your office or suite’s door, and make sure it’s unlocked or keep your keys or key card handy if it locks automatically.

