 By the time your puppy is three months old, they’ve essentially reached the equivalent of their teenage years. In other words, they grow up fast. As they develop the ability to interact with the world around them, they will also become increasingly interested in doing so.Some breeds are easier to train than others. Dogs that were bred to hunt or herd, like Border Collies, will learn faster than dogs that were bred to guard livestock, like bulldogs. However, when it comes to basic training, the harder-to-train breeds should only take a month longer with good training practices.It’s especially important to start potty training early. Keep in mind that small breeds may take longer to potty train than large breeds due to their smaller bladders., Setting limits and introducing your puppy to basic commands is the best way to prepare your dog to begin a more comprehensive training program. Teaching a puppy to sit and stay, however, may be harder than you anticipate.To teach your dog to sit, say “sit” while you guide them into a sitting position by placing one hand on their chest and another behind their back legs. Once they are sitting, reward them with a treat. This is an example of positive reinforcement, which can be applied to many different obedience commands.Stay patient and consistent. The importance of teaching these commands is coupled with the importance of teaching your puppy to listen. Once these commands are consistently followed, your dog is not only able to begin further training, but the process will become much easier.
 Aside from a command to sit and stay, there are other important basic components that every training program should include. For instance, a command to “lie down” can be useful during meals or while traveling in a vehicle. “Stand” can be useful during grooming and vet visits, and “come” is vital before you ever allow your dog off leash.Leash training is also important, but will likely require that your dog is used to being trained. As such, you likely want to teach a few more basic commands before beginning leash training, especially if you’re training a puppy.
 Especially if you have a male puppy, it is important to play gently between four and ten months of age. High amounts of testosterone will lead to boundary-pushing other types of aggressive behavior. As such, positive reinforcement and non-aggressive play are especially important during this period.As you play, your puppy is learning. Avoid games that may encourage them to be aggressive at a young age.
For instance, hold off on wrestling and tug-of-war until they’re a bit older. These may convey that pulling and jumping are generally accepted behaviors, which can lead to training challenges later on.
 Puppies have notoriously high energy levels, and this can prevent them from focusing during training sessions. To burn off some of that energy, take your puppy out to play before you begin each training session. Try playing fetch, tug-of-war, or taking your puppy for a walk.Experiment with a new game each week to see which games your dog enjoys the most.
Don’t forget to give your puppy a bathroom break before you begin your training session.
 The younger your dog is, the shorter their attention span will be. Instead of giving your dog one long training session, give them multiple shorter sessions throughout the day. Training sessions should last between one and ten minutes.Try to end the session before your dog loses focus.

