 If you'll have to fold and unfold your bike frequently, you want the process to have as few steps as possible so you can complete the task with little delay.Generally, the more compact a bike folds up, the more complicated the folding process will be.
Look for a bike that balances ease of folding with the size of the completely folded bike in a way that best suits your own needs. For example, if you are an urban commuter who uses public transportation often and bikes to and from work, you need a bike that can be folded and unfolded simply.;
, While you may not know every place you might take your bike in the future, check the storage available for folding bikes with air carriers and public transportation.Most airlines and other forms of transport have this information available on their websites. Check with carriers you plan to frequent, as well as those at any destinations you plan to visit.
When determining whether a given bike will fit in the space you have available, don't forget to take the thickness of any cover you'll use into account.
 You don't want to choose a folding bike with a folding mechanism that takes too long, or is too complicated for you to fold the bike smoothly after a couple of tries.How you're going to use the bike comes into play here. If you're an urban commuter who will be carrying your bike on public transportation a lot, you need a bike that can be folded and unfolded as quickly as possible.
If the steps of the folding process are complicated or confusing, you may want to try a similar bike in a different brand. Ask a knowledgeable associate at a bike shop about brands that specialize in ease of foldability.
 Different brands and bike models may have accessories designed to protect the bike during transport. Some accessories include tripods that allow the bike to stand upright, or protectors to prevent scratches.If you're going to be carrying your bike on public transportation frequently, you'll appreciate a cover as well as rubber stoppers to prevent your bike from getting scratched – either while in transit or through repeated foldings and unfoldings.
Keep in mind that certain types of protective accessories or mechanisms may be required if you are traveling in some countries. Look for information on the website of that country's transportation authority.

