 Training your bird to step up has many benefits, including decreasing his fear towards you, establishing your authority, and decreasing his territorial behavior.Your bird may not be immediately comfortable with stepping up on your hand, so he will need to first get used to your hand. Begin by placing your hand near the outside of his cage for about a week, and talking to him in a gentle voice.Once your bird is comfortable with the sight of your hand, place your hand in his cage in a slow and non-threatening manner. It may take another week before he is comfortable with your hand inside his cage.;
, Your bird may be comfortable with your hand inside his cage, but he still may not want to step on it. Entice him to come closer with a treat. Reward him with the treat when he steps closer, even if he does not actually touch your hand at first.It may take several tries before your bird is ready to take the treat from your hand.Be patient with him.
Spray millet is a great bird treat., Once your bird is at ease with your hand being inside his cage, position your index finger like a perch (finger pointed out). Slowly move your hand closer to your bird. Next, gently press your finger against your bird’s lower chest to encourage him to step up onto your finger.Use a verbal cue (‘step up’ or ‘up’) as you press your finger against his chest.Reward your bird immediately with verbal praise (‘good bird’) and a treat when he steps up onto your finger.Your bird may not initially understand that he is supposed to step up onto your hand. If he runs away from your hand, entice him to your finger with some spray millet rather than following him around his cage with your hand., Slowly take him out of his cage when he is perched on your finger. Be careful to avoid any toys or perches as you move your hand outside of his cage.Do not be surprised if your bird suddenly panics and flies off your finger. If he does so, calmly walk to him and encourage him to step up again. Repeat this each time he flies off your finger.If your bird seems distressed or exhausted, stop your training session and return him to his cage.Hold your bird at your chest level when you have him outside of his cage. This will establish your authority over him., To add a challenge to this trick, encourage your bird to step up multiple times. Position your free hand above the hand on which he is perched. With the index finger of your free hand positioned like a perch, gently press against his chest and say your verbal cue.Repeat this several times, rewarding your bird each time that he steps up.You can also gently lift and stroke his toes to increase his comfort level of being perched on your finger., Slowly move your bird back into his cage with him still perched on your finger. Position him such that he will be facing forward in his cage. If you will be placing him on a perch, make sure that your finger is below the perch.Use a verbal cue (‘step down’ or ‘down’) as he steps down, even though he will be stepping up onto his perch.Reward your bird when he steps off your finger.

