 Slice the oranges crosswise around the middle (not on the stem ends). Do this for the Seville oranges and navel orange.;
, Nestle a non-reactive mesh strainer into a bowl. Remove the orange’s seeds as you squeeze the oranges over the strainer. Tie the seeds securely in cheesecloth or muslin, and set the pouch aside.Seeds are high in pectin, which will give your marmalade the texture of a rich jelly.
 With a chef’s knife, cut each piece of orange into three parts. Leave the rinds on. Dice the parts into cubes as thinly as you can. Slice and dice the navel orange the same way.The pieces should be no bigger than 1/3 of an inch (0.85 cm) long., Add the orange pieces to a pot of water, and bring the water to a boil. Continue simmering until the oranges are cooked through. Drain the water out of the pot.Certain sour orange varieties are more resistant to cooking. Pre-boiling the orange pieces ensures that they will be fully cooked.
The oranges should be covered with water; an exact measurement is not needed.
 Pour into the pot with the oranges 10 cups (2.5L) of water, the squeezed juice, and a pinch of salt. Add the pouch with the seeds in it to the pot. Bring the water to a boil over high heat, then reduce it to a simmer. Continue cooking for twenty to thirty minutes, or until the peels are translucent.Once the peels are translucent, you can set the mixture aside overnight, if desired, to encourage the release of extra pectin.
 Stir 8 cups (1.6 kg) of sugar, then bring the mixture to a full boil. Reduce the heat so that the water maintains a gentle boil. Stir the mixture occasionally.Occasional stirring prevents the bottom of the mixture from adhering to the bottom of the pot and burning.
 Place a saucer in the freezer. After twenty minutes of the mixture boiling, remove the seed pouch with tongs and discard the pouch. Allow the mixture to boil for about twenty more minutes, stirring occasionally.Chilling a saucer will assist you with checking how well the mixture will gel.
 Check the mixture with a candy thermometer for a jelling point of 220°F (104°C). With a cooking spoon, put a bit of the stirred mixture on your chilled saucer. Place the saucer back into the freezer. After a few minutes, observe whether the mixture is slightly jelled. If not, cook the mixture a bit longer until it gels properly.After a few minutes in the freezer, the mixture should thicken somewhat, and wrinkle slightly to the touch.
The saucer is just to test a small amount of the marmalade to verify that it’s finished cooking.
 Remove the pot from heat, and stir in the Scotch. Place a piece of vanilla bean into the bottom of sterile jars. Refrigerate or can your marmalade.