 Because surrogacy parenting laws can be complicated and vary greatly among states, the best way to protect your rights when using a surrogate mother is to hire an attorney with experience representing intended parents.If you have friends or family members who became parents using a surrogate mother, they can be your best source for attorney recommendations. Ask them for the name and contact information of the attorney they hired, and talk with them about the experience.
If you don't know anyone with experience in surrogacy, you can begin your search online. State and local bar associations typically have searchable directories of attorneys licensed in the state.
Begin by looking for experienced family law attorneys, then find out how much experience they have with surrogacy arrangements.;
, You typically can check an attorney's website to get a good idea of how much experience he or she has with surrogacy. Look for an attorney who specializes in surrogacy or fertility issues in your state.Often the website can not only give you more detail about the attorney's practice, but also paint a picture of the type of person they are and what it's like to work with them.
Ideally, you want to hire an attorney who has experience drafting surrogacy agreements on behalf of intended parents.
Check the bio page to learn more about the attorney's focus, background, and values. Attorneys also often explain their motivation for entering a particular area of law and what they find most rewarding about their practice.
You also may find reviews or testimonials from former clients. Read them, but keep in mind that typically an attorney isn't going to post a negative review on their own website.
 Having experience and understanding the law isn't enough – you need to meet with several attorneys so you can select the best one for you, and make sure that he or she is someone with whom you feel comfortable and at ease.You may be able to get free initial consultations, but don't be surprised if you have to pay a relatively small flat fee to speak with an attorney.
Many attorneys with experience in surrogacy also handle other family law issues. Find out how much of the attorney's practice is devoted to surrogacy, as well as the other types of cases the attorney regularly handles.
Ask about the attorney's work habits and relationships with clients. Don't be afraid to ask an attorney for references. Speaking to a former client can be a good way to get a feel for what it's like to work with that attorney.
At the initial consultation, you should be able to get a good idea of the process of finding a surrogate mother as well as a rough timeline, so you know what to expect.
You also want to be upfront about the attorney's fees, and any financial restrictions you may have. Surrogacy is a relatively expensive path toward parenthood, but attorney's fees need not make up the bulk of your costs.
 After you've interviewed different attorneys, compare and contrast them to decide which one you believe will be the best fit. Make a list of criteria that are important to you and evaluate each attorney's ability to meet those criteria.Don't be afraid to go with your gut. The attorney you hire will be an important part of your life for the next year or so, and will guide you through a delicate and intimate process. Finding someone with whom you feel comfortable is of paramount importance.
As you're comparing the attorneys you've hired, call and ask follow-up questions if necessary before you make your final decision.
Call any attorneys you've interviewed who you've decided not to hire and let them know you've decided to go with someone else.
 Sit down with your attorney to discuss your next steps in finding a surrogate mother and learn more about the process. Make sure everything you discuss regarding the representation is included in a signed, written agreement.Your attorney should explain the retainer agreement to you, and may have other written information for you regarding the next steps of the process.
Read everything from your attorney carefully and ask questions if you don't understand something.
Before you sign the retainer agreement, make sure you understand exactly what the attorney will be doing for you and how much you'll be paying him or her.
 An established, reputable agency is a safe and efficient way to find a surrogate mother. Agencies screen women who apply to be surrogates and conduct thorough background checks as well as medical exams.Your attorney may have a particular agency he or she regularly uses, or may be able to provide you with information on several in your area.
Keep in mind that agency fees can be expensive. For this reason, it's important to find out exactly what services the agency provides and which you'll have to arrange and cover on your own.
Find out how responsive the agency is to emails or phone calls from intended parents, and what their communication policies are.
Make sure you have an understanding of the screening process each agency uses before you make your final decision. Find out if the agency counselors meet applicants in person or evaluate their living situation, and whether psychological wellness tests are part of their screening process.
 Typically once you've chosen a surrogacy agency to use, you will meet with a counselor who will go over your materials, explain the surrogacy process, and answer any questions.Typically you'll be asked to complete a questionnaire before the agency schedules your initial consultation. The questionnaire includes information about you, your partner, your attempts to become pregnant, and your family and home environment.
Expect your initial consultation to last several hours. The counselor will go over the agency's program in detail and explain a basic timeframe for matching you with a surrogate and what you can expect in each phase of the process.
The counselor also will discuss with you the costs of surrogacy. Keep in mind that you can expect to spend between $20,000 and $50,000 or more to complete the process.
The counselor will discuss the legal implications and the relevant laws in your state. Surrogacy agencies typically have their own legal teams which specialize in surrogacy laws, so pay attention even if you've already discussed these matters with your attorney.
If the counselor mentions any legal aspects that weren't addressed by your attorney, or states something about the law that differs from what your attorney told you, make a note and bring it up with your attorney after your consultation.
 Based on the information you provide, the agency will match you with surrogates that are preliminary matches. You typically will have the opportunity to interview these women so you can make your final selection.Initially the counselor typically will present you with the paper applications of one or more women registered with the agency who were identified as a medical match.
In addition to medical information, the profile may include information about the woman's lifestyle, hobbies, interests, and reasons she chose to become a surrogate mother.
You may have the opportunity to meet with potential surrogates in person, or interview them over the phone or through online video conferencing.
Keep in mind that this woman will be carrying your child for nine months, and will be a very close and important part of your life. Choose someone who inspires warmth, comfort, and confidence.
 Once you've chosen the woman you want to use as a surrogate, the agency may conduct additional medical tests to confirm that you are medically compatible before the fertilization process begins.At this time, your attorney probably will meet with you to discuss the terms of the surrogacy agreement and begin drafting the written document.
Typically all legal contracts and clearances must be in place before the fertilization process can begin.
 A surrogacy contract typically begins by naming the surrogate mother and the intended parents, and providing brief biological and medical information about the parties involved and the reason they are entering into a surrogacy contract.If you are single, the contract will be between you and the surrogate mother. However, if you have a partner, typically you both must be listed as the intended parents and sign the agreement.
The introductory paragraphs state that all parties are over the age of 18 and capable of entering the agreement, as well as the purpose of the agreement. This typically includes a statement that the intended parents are unable to sustain a pregnancy.
There also may be a description of the surrogate mother's health insurance, including a promise by her to maintain that insurance throughout the pregnancy.
 Typically all parties must agree to the use of particular assisted reproductive technology, including in vitro fertilization, to get the surrogate mother pregnant.The surrogate mother also must agree to submit to any required medical tests or procedures involved in the fertilization process. Typically, she also must agree to regular prenatal care before pregnancy is achieved.
Your agreement may specify a maximum number of attempts that can be made to achieve a pregnancy.
 While she is carrying your child, the surrogate mother must agree to abide by the medical and lifestyle restrictions listed in the surrogacy contract.The surrogate mother typically has the duty to abstain from sex during the fertilization process, and to abstain from alcohol, drugs, and smoking during the pregnancy.
The surrogacy agreement may include other restrictions on the surrogate mother, including a list of activities in which she cannot participate.
During the pregnancy, the surrogate mother must keep all medical appointments and submit to any required medical tests or procedures related to the pregnancy.
Surrogacy agreements also typically include a confidentiality agreement, which restricts all parties from discussing private details of the arrangement or revealing confidential medical information.
 Typically you must agree to pay medical expenses related to the pregnancy, as well as other living expenses to care for the surrogate mother while she is carrying your child.Typically the intended parents are responsible for any medical expenses related to the pregnancy that aren't covered by the surrogate mother's medical insurance.
The intended parents also may be required to pay all or part of the surrogate mother's living expenses during the months she is pregnant, as well as providing money to cover additional expenses such as clothing that are brought on by the pregnancy.
Additional costs, such as support groups or counseling, may be required by your surrogacy agency.
 If you have any requirements at the birth of the child, such as if you and your partner want to be present at the birth or you want your child born in a particular hospital, include these details in your surrogacy contract.At the heart of a surrogacy agreement is a promise by the surrogate mother that she will not seek physical custody of the child after birth.
The agreement must include a statement that it is in the child's best interests to be raised by the intended parents, and that custody of the child will be relinquished to the intended parents as soon as possible following the birth.
The surrogate mother also must agree to terminate her parental rights immediately after the birth of the child.
Your attorney will complete the necessary legal documents to ensure custody is transferred and the surrogate mother's parental rights are terminated immediately following the birth of the child. Typically these documents are signed and ready to be filed with the court several months before the surrogate mother gives birth.
 Since surrogacy agreements are banned or legally void in many states, the state's law that you chose to govern the agreement can have extremely important consequences for the enforceability of your agreement.Typically the contract will be governed by the law of the state in which you live, even if the surrogate lives in another state.
The agreement also may include a statement that if any portion of the agreement is voided or ruled unenforceable by a court, the rest of the agreement will remain intact and enforceable.
 Once the attorneys and the parties have read and agreed to everything in the surrogacy contract, it must be signed to become legally binding. Signing the contract in front of a notary public provides an extra layer of protection.You also may want to have witnesses present when the agreement is signed. If there are later problems, you can call these witnesses to testify on your behalf.
Once the contract is signed, the agency will prepare legal clearance for the fertility center and begin the in vitro fertilization process.

