 If you find that pornography is ending up on your computer, either willingly or unwillingly, you’ll want to start avoiding pornography by cleaning up your computer. You’ll want to start by deleting any pornography saved onto the computer itself. After that, there are a few other things you can do, depending on the problem that you’re having:


Clear your browser. Clear your browser’s cache, history, as well as your Google search history. If your computer remembers you visiting porn sites (even if it was by accident), it will think you want more porn and display more advertisements for pornography and unsafe sites.
Check for viruses. If you notice that you get porn pop-ups even when you’re visiting trusted sites or maybe even as soon as you open your internet browser, you might have a computer virus. Call an expert to get the virus removed and then install anti-virus software that can protect you for the future.
Be careful about what search terms you use and websites you visit. Some phrases are frequently attached to pornography and some websites are more likely to give you viruses and lead to pornography. Turn on Google Safe Search to protect from unsafe searches and try to only visit sites that you absolutely trust.;
, There are a number of ways in which you can set up a censor that will keep you and others safe from pornography on the internet. You can block all but a few sites, only sites that are marked for adults, or you can just block certain sites. Choose a method that is right for your needs:


Use StayFocused. StayFocused is a browser add-on for Chrome browsers that allows you to control what websites you can access and how much time you can spend on those sites. It’s great for policing your own behavior, if you’re the one struggling with porn.
Alternatively use Stop Procrastinating App that allows you to block internet access or filter websites on all web browsers, not just Chrome. It is impossible to get around and also offers users goal setting options to help them focus psychologically on breaking their addiction.

Use Microsoft’s built-in content filter. If you’re trying to protect your family and you have a Windows Computer, take advantage of Microsoft’s built in parental controls. These are powerful controls that you can set to whatever the needs are for your family.Set up OpenDNS to block all objectionable content across all devices in your home. You can set up the OpenDNS software, which is available for free, to block all objectionable content in your household. This is the program frequently used by schools and it functions very well for protecting your family., Certain types of media will be more likely to subject you and other people to objectionable or dangerous material. Because of this, you might want to limit how much you use certain kinds of media. Movies are easy to choose because of their ratings, but TV might be harder to control. Limit the channels you receive and make sure to do your research on a show before deciding if it’s right for you and your family. Internet is the hardest of all to regulate, so make use of a censor or significantly limit how much your family uses the internet and where that internet usage happens.


For example, did you know that YouTube has a content filter that can help you protect yourself and your family from adult content on that site? Scroll to the bottom of any YouTube page and you’ll see a button that says “Safety: Off”. Click on that and YouTube will be instantly safer!

, Move any computers in your home into family spaces and keep an open door policy for any private rooms where computers will be staying. This open policy will help keep all family members, yourself included, honest and allow them to better control urges and bad habits.


So, for example, move your son’s computer from his bedroom and into a corner of the living room.
 Certain public spaces may be more prone to displaying offensive material in readily visible places. For every area this will be different, but if you find that you’re exposed to the materials while out in public, it might be a good idea to think about how you can change your where your time is spent.


For example, downtown areas and city-outskirts are known for attracting more objectionable material than other parts of cities.
If you know you tend to see this problematic material while driving or walking to work, for example, try changing your route.
 We’ll often hear the advice to snap a rubber band at our wrist when trying to stop our own bad habits or that we should physically punish our kids if they don’t stay away from material we find objectionable, but at least when it comes to watching pornography, you’re going to want to stay away from these practices. They work because they cause the person being punished to associate pain, discomfort, shame, and humiliation with whatever they’re being punished for. When these feelings are applied to sex, however, they create unhealthy feelings and may even prevent the person from having normal sexual interaction in the future. Avoid negative reinforcement for any kind of sexual practice as much as possible.
 Whether you’re trying to keep yourself away from pornography or you’re trying to help your family, using positive will be much more effective at creating the behaviors you want to see.


For example, reward your teenage son with extra spending money for very week where he spends less than 5 hours on the computer.
You can give yourself positive reinforcement too: try giving yourself a piece of candy every day that you don’t view pornography.
 It’s also important to really understand the problem that you’re having. Sometimes, viewing pornography might not be as bad as you think it is. You should look at your situation from an outsider perspective and really decide if you want to go to really great lengths to control the situation.


For example, if your son is having trouble with viewing pornography, it might be that this is just a phase. Increased sexual feelings at a young age are normal and pornography might be a safer outlet for releasing those feelings than if he stopped and then went looking for release elsewhere. You might want to just let him be, but at least offer him some advice about why pornography can give you bad ideas about sex and why it’s important not to let it control your life.
If you’re worried, for example, that you’re just seeing objectionable material through no fault of your own and what that could mean for your religious life, talk to your spiritual adviser. Many religions teach that transgressions which are out of our control are not our fault.

