 The thyroid gland is sensitive to many things, including dietary factors as well as emotional and physical stressors, so hypothyroidism is a relatively common condition — particularly in women. If you experience chronic (daily) fatigue, unexplained weight gain, dry skin, coarse hair, depression and uncharacteristic moodiness, then schedule an appointment with your family doctor to get checked out.


The best way to check for hypothyroidism is to get a blood test and look at your level of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).TSH is the hormone your pituitary gland (in your brain) secretes to tell your thyroid how much thyroid hormone to make.
A lack of iodine in your diet can cause your thyroid to swell (called a goiter) and lead to hypothyroidism.;
, If your thyroid gland is underactive or dysfunctional for some reason, your pituitary gland will tell your thyroid to work harder, which is indicated by increased levels of TSH in your bloodstream.So the higher your TSH blood levels, the lower your thyroid gland activity.


Normal blood TSH values are 0.5 to 4.5/5 mIU/L (milli-international units per liter).
If your TSH level is greater than 10 mIU/L, then most doctors agree that treatment with thyroid medication (synthetic or natural) is appropriate.
If your TSH level is between 4 - 10 mIU/L, medication may still be recommended if your actual thyroid hormones — thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) — are abnormally low.
 Once your doctor establishes you have hypothyroidism, there are different types of medications to consider. The main medication used is called levothyroxine sodium (Synthroid, Levoxyl, Levothroid, Unithroid), which is a synthetic version of thyroxine (T4).Other commonly used thyroid medications include liothyronine (Cytomel), a synthetic version of triiodothyronine (T3); liotrix (Thyrolar), a synthetic combo of T4 and T3; and desiccated natural thyroid (Armour Thyroid, Nature-throid, Westhroid).


Desiccated natural thyroid hormone is made from dried pig thyroid glands.
Depending on many factors, including which thyroid hormones are too low in your bloodstream (T4 and/or T3), your doctor will recommend the most appropriate thyroid medication.
All these thyroid medications are supplementing a hormone(s) that's at low levels in your body, so your body won't react negatively to them. The safety concern is getting the right dose for your body. There may be a period of adjustment to get the dosage right, so your doctor may need to see you more in the beginning. Be aware of the signs of too little medication and too much medication.
 Remember to tell your doctor about any over-the-counter or prescription drugs you're taking because some types can negatively interact with your thyroid medication. Other drugs to watch out for include oral contraceptives, hormone therapy (estrogen, testosterone), some anti-seizure medications, cholesterol-lowering drugs (statins), blood pressure medications, some cardiac medications, and many antidepressants.If you take any of these drugs it doesn't mean you can't take thyroid medication, but your doctor may have to alter dosages or schedules so side effects are minimized.
Most interactive drugs need to be taken at least 4 hours before taking your thyroid medication.Some food (soy and dairy products in particular) and supplements (especially calcium and iron) also affect the absorption and effectiveness of thyroid medication. Horseradish and lemon balm can also affect how well your body absorbs the medication, therefore it is suggested to take your thyroid medicine on an empty stomach.
 When starting on thyroid medication for hypothyroidism, your doctor will decide on the initial dosage based on information such as your blood test results, weight, age and other medical conditions you might have.The dose will then be adjusted from time to time based on regular check-ups that consist of physical examinations and more blood tests.


If you suddenly gain or lose a significant amount of weight (more than 10 pounds) inform your doctor as soon as you can because it might affect your dosage of thyroid medication.
Because treatment for hypothyroidism is highly individualized and monitored carefully by your doctor, you'll get your TSH measured 4 - 8 weeks after starting treatment or changing dosages.Once stabilized, you'll get a blood test every 6-12 months to check for TSH, T4 and T3 levels.
Once you start on a particular type and brand name of thyroid medication, stay with it. If a change is unavoidable or preferred for economic reasons, tell your doctor beforehand.
 Taking your thyroid medication in the morning is suggested, but not required. Thyroid hormonal medications come in pill form and are easy to take. They stay in your system for a long time because they're not quickly metabolized, so you take them just once daily. Although there's some debate on the topic, many doctors feel the best time to take thyroid medication is probably first thing in the morning soon after rising.It's easiest to establish a routine first thing in the morning and it stabilizes your hormone levels throughout the day.


Some research indicates that taking thyroid medication before going to bed increases thyroid hormones and lowers TSH more effectively compared to a morning dosage schedule.Taking thyroid medication at night may be more convenient if you're on other medications and need to space them apart by at least 4 hours.
Regardless of when you take your thyroid medication, take it at the same time every day.
If you forget to take your thyroid pill, take it as soon as you remember if within 12 hours of your regular time. If over 12 hours, simply skip the forgotten dose.
 Regardless of when you actually take your thyroid medication, take it on an empty stomach because food may affect its absorption and make it less effective or potent.In general, wait at least 30 minutes to one hour after taking your thyroid pill before eating breakfast or any other meal. If you've eaten first, wait at least 2 hours before taking your thyroid pill.


Aside from not combining your pills with food, there are no other dietary restrictions while on thyroid medication.Taking your thyroid medication at night may be more convenient to prevent food interactions in the morning.
 Take thyroid medication (especially levothyroxine sodium or Levoxyl) with lots of fluid because the tablets tend to dissolve very quickly and can swell in the back of your throat in response to saliva and cause gagging or choking.As such, take the tablets with a large glass of water (about 8 ounces) in order to wash them down without incident.


Stick with purified water and don't wash the tablets down with juice, milk or coffee because it make affect how they are absorbed.
Don't use excessively cold water because it may cause your throat to constrict a little (become more narrow) and make it more difficult to swallow the tablets.
 Keep your thyroid medication in the container it came in and keep the lid tightly closed and out of the reach of your kids. Store the medication at regular room temperature and away from excessive heat or moisture — for example, not in your bathroom and not in a windowsill.Throw away the thyroid medication if it's outdated — ask a pharmacist about the best and safest way to dispose of your medication.


Thyroid medication tends to have a strong odor, so it doesn't mean that it's spoiled or outdated and can't be used.
Check the expiry date on the package of your medication and ask your doctor for a new prescription if you notice it's outdated.
 Never go off of your thyroid medication without your physician’s direct order and observation. Physical ramifications and problems most likely will result and could cause life threatening problems.

Remember that thyroid replacement therapy is usually for a lifetime.
Report any unusual bleeding, bruising, chest pain, palpitations, sweating, nervousness, or shortness of breath to your physician immediately. If you become pregnant, then report that to your physician as your dose may have to be adjusted.

