 These include:


His passive is relentless assault- Jax's attack speed increases with every basic attack.
His Q ability is Leap strike- Jax leaps to a targeted location, if the target is an enemy he deals damage.
His W ability is Empower: Jax empowers his next basic attack or leap strike dealing additional damage.
His E ability is Counter strike: Jax dodges all incoming basic attack for three seconds, if clicked again during that time Jax will stun nearby targets. Note: you have to wait one second for you to be able to stun an enemy.
His ultimate (R) ability is Grandmaster's might: Jax gains additional armor and magic resist. Passive: Jax deals additional magic damage with every third basic attack.;
, Due to Jax's Counterstrike negating a great deal of damage an enemy can put out on you, a rune page similar to an attack damage carry is viable.


An example of a viable rune page for Jax consists of 9 greater seals of armor, 9 greater marks of attack damage, 9 greater glyphs of magic resist and 3 greater quintessence of attack damage.
 9/21/0 is a great set up because it is the best for sustain in lane and damage output in a duel or team fight.
 Each spell has it's own benefits and are down to your play style. Some recommended summoner spells include:


Ignite because it helps to get kills early game.
Flash because it helps to escape a gank or get closer to an enemy.
Teleport always because when you are top lane, you will not be able to easily get to dragon to kill it with your team or defend your turret as well, as top lane is really just an island where you just try to push and become an invincible monster while farming away.
 Starting items can include a Doran's shield/blade, 1 health pot, Yellow trinket and his full build can look something like Mercury Treads, Trinity Force, Blade Of The Ruined King, Sunfire Cape, Guardian Angel, Warmogs Armor or Gunblade.


Bear in mind that every build is situational and you should fit your build around your opposing team, that being said, Trinity Force is a core item n Jax.
 For Jax's combo you want to press E to get your stun ready then Q to leap to enemy champion E again to stun them then W to deal some serious damage this is good for poking early game.
 If your jungle needs a leash help them if not just wait under your tower. When minions come focus on last hitting, if you're against a range champion and they keep harassing you, let them push and try to get as many cs under your tower. Once you're level three and you have your Q W and E, harass them with your combo so that they will recall and now farming will be easier.
 You should have your Trinity Force by now and should focus on helping other lanes. Try to help bot or mid, if they don't need help focus on pushing top. If an enemy comes top don't be afraid, use your combo and your passive on your Trinity Force will let you do tons of damage.
 You should have most of your build now and you should focus on pushing. If it is a tight game, group with your team and attack baron as it will give you a huge buff. Push for game and win.

