 While there are things you may find annoying about your partner, it is not helpful to tell everyone you know about it. While you may have a confidant or two outside of your relationship, you should not complain at work, social events, or family gatherings. Your partner might find out, and it will hurt them, damaging the trust they have in you.
 If your partner has told you something confidential, you should not share it with others, even your closest friends. While they may swear to never tell, you have already broken your partner’s trust.
 No matter how difficult your in-laws are, they are still your partner’s parents. Partners can feel defensive when their parents are insulted, and it could sour your relationship. Try to accept your in-laws’ different way of life. You do not have to let it intrude on your relationship, but you should understand that they have their own special relationship with your partner.If you do not get along with your in-laws, discuss the problem with your spouse in a gentle manner. Do not insult your in-laws or call them names, but do point out which behaviors are troubling you and why.
 While your relationship may have united two families, you may find that your families are causing divisions between you and your partner. Establish with your partner certain boundaries that apply to both of your families. Do not favor your own parents over your partner’s, and make sure that they act accordingly.Should family members call before they visit, or can they drop by unannounced?
Which holidays will you spend with which members of the family?
Are you comfortable with taking in any of your parents when they grow old, sick, or feeble?
What kinds of gifts are acceptable for family members to give your children?

, Children are extremely receptive to their parents’ behaviors. Disagreeing or settling a difference of opinion calmly in front of your children can teach them conflict resolution skills. That said, you and your partner should never raise your voices or physically fight in front of your children. This can hurt your children and impair their social development. If you do fight in front of your children, be sure to apologize in front of them as well to show them how healthy reconciliation occurs.
 If you disagree with how your partner parents, you should not undermine their authority in front of the children. If your partner has already told your children one thing, do not disagree and tell them another. This only reduces the authority both you and your partner have over your children. When alone with your partner, bring up the questionable tactic. Tell them why you’re uncomfortable with it, and ask them if they are willing to avoid it in the future.

