 One way to deal with the emotions and memories you may have related to your childhood bullying is to write about it. You can also use your journal to write about how you are managing your mental illness.


Write in your journal on a daily basis, if possible. For instance, you might end your day by writing in your journal before you go to bed.
Write about what happened when you were bullied. Include how it made you feel, how you handled it, and how you think it’s affecting you now.
Write about good things that happen to you and things that make you happy, also. Write about your achievements, successes, and progress handling your mental illness.
 Having a routine in place will help you deal with mental illness linked to childhood bullying in a lot of ways.Being a victim of bullying may have caused you to change your life and stop doing things you need or want to do. Sticking to a routine will give you a sense of purpose and order while allowing you feel accomplished when you have finished your tasks. Creating a routine and following it will also help you meet your responsibilities because you’ll know what you need to do and when.


You don’t have to schedule out every minute of your day, but you should have certain things that you do every day and in generally the same order.
Think about your responsibilities and obligations that must be met and include them in your routine. For example, think about taking care of your hygiene, cooking, and cleaning.
 Lowered self-esteem can be one of the short-term and long-term consequences of childhood bullying.When you are coping with mental illness linked to childhood bullying you may feel unworthy, awkward, unattractive, or any number of things. Doing things to boost your self-esteem will help you deal with negative feelings you have about yourself as a result of the bullying.


First, write down your negative traits. Once you have a list of these, ask yourself if these traits are actually accurate reflections of yourself. Break down these negative beliefs, and try to understand why you believe these things about yourself.Make a list of your positive traits and qualities. Post it somewhere you can see it frequently or take a picture of it and use it as the wallpaper for your electronic device.
Use positive self-talk. Often mental illness can make you use self-talk that puts you down or degrades you. Instead tell yourself things like, “I’m a good person with great qualities.”

, Relying on your friends and is an effective way to deal with mental illness, especially when it is linked to childhood bullying. They can help you get over the bullying and cope with your mental illness. Your friends and family can check on you, encourage you, advocate for you, and help you stick to your treatment plan.Talk to your friends and family when you are having a hard time dealing with your mental illness. You could tell your sister, for example, “Can we talk? My anxiety is really getting to me.”
It’s okay to ask someone that cares about you to just come spend time with you without doing anything. Try saying, “Barbara, do you mind just hanging with me for a little while?”
Spend time with the people in your support system doing things that you enjoy. For instance, go to an art showing, a music performance, or just a walk in the park. This can distract you from your struggles.

