 The iconic 1967 Chevy Impala that the Winchester brothers cruise around in hunting monsters is Dean's baby, and an important part of his identity. Dean insists on taking the wheel at every opportunity, and while you should be responsible when driving, you too should have a close connection to a classic car if you want to be like Dean.


Give your car a cool nickname. In honor of his love of classic rock and, in particular, the band Metallica, Dean christened his car "Metallicar." Similarly, you might use one of your favorite bands to name your classic car.
Although Dean is almost always seen in his '67 Chevy Impala, he has on other occasions driven cars that might inspire your classic car selection. Two models worth mentioning are the 1976 Dodge Aspen and 1972 AMC Gremlin.;
, When driving around, Dean is almost always enjoying some good old classic rock. Some artists he is fond of include Led Zeppelin, AC/DC, Blue Oyster Cult and Metallica. Or you could train your musical sensibilities in that genre by tuning in to a your local classic rock radio station.


Dean isn't just a fan of the classic rock sound; he knows his favorite bands in the way only a true fan can! Pay attention to the trivia you hear from classic rock DJs so no one will think you're a less dedicated fan than Dean.
There are many different sub-genres in classic rock. You might benefit from a class on the history of music at your local community center, community college, or university. You could also devote some personal research into the different kinds of classic rock., Flannel is rugged, masculine, and is a regular part of Dean's wardrobe. Being more of a typical man's man, you won't see Dean wearing the nicer clothing his brother Sam does unless he has a good reason for it. Dean isn't afraid, however, to proudly wear items that have emotional significance to him, like the amulet/necklace he wears daily that he received from his brother.You might fashion an item a sibling or loved one gave you into a memento necklace. For example, you could weave a coin given to you by a favorite grandparent into a bracelet.
 He may be fighting evil and looking cool while doing it, but Dean's main job is to help people. This is evident from the Winchester family motto, "Saving people, hunting things - the family business."Always reach out to help those in need, even if they don't ask. Dean would do everything in his power to help someone who was in dire straits, and you should too if you want to emulate Dean.You might want to spend some time fine tuning your ability to perceive things around you. A heightened awareness of your environment will prepare you better for the task of helping others.

Prepare yourself for worst case scenarios. Knowing how to respond in an emergency situation will help you respond without missing a beat when you're needed most.

Build your mental and emotional fortitude. Dean sometimes has to confront dark and evil things that might make normal people run in fear. You'll have to be able to stand your ground emotionally and mentally to help those who need it most.
 Dean may act tough, but he still puts family first.Dean and his brother Sam are very different people who sometimes intensely disagree on what to do and how to do it, but even so, Dean always looks after his little brother. He also makes sure family friends, like Bobby Singer who is a father figure to Dean, are taken care of. This shows just how much Dean cares for his friends. To Dean Winchester, you don't need to be a blood relative for a person to be family.It can be hard work, especially if you and your siblings don't get along, but just like Dean you should make every effort to be a good brother. In your life, this might mean helping with homework, encouraging your siblings in their sports, or offering advice.
You won't be able to take care of the important people in your life if you are holding a grudge! An important part of taking care of friends and family is taking care of your relationships with them. This might mean you have to forgive certain things and accept others.
 Dean has been in some sticky situations where all has seemed hopeless. This has never stopped him from giving his all, and it's thanks to his tenacity that he's pulled through some of the more difficult challenges he's faced. To truly be like Dean, you'll have to develop the same resolve in the face of difficulty.It may take time and effort, but you can train your will so you can persevere in the face of difficulty. The more you train your willpower, the stronger it will become and the more you'll be able to persevere, just like Dean., Even though Dean has an intense fear of flying, he doesn't allow this to stop him when other people's lives are on the line.Depending on your situation and the kind of fears you are dealing with, you might find that the encouragement of a friend all you need to overcome. Severe fears or phobias, on the other hand, might require the assistance of a mental health professional, like a therapist, before you're able to conquer your fear.
 In many situations Dean has outwitted stronger and more powerful opponents through strategy.Although you might not be heading into a dangerous situation with demons or monsters, you should have a backup plan for situations that call for it. You can backup your computer, plan alternate routes when traveling so you know what to do when traffic is at a standstill due to an accident or closed road, and you can even come up with backup plan for your job just in case you realize your not suited for the one you've been applying for.


In today's world, one of the most important and expensive decisions a young adult is asked to make is that of a college major. You might be uncertain what you want to do in college. If so, be like Dean and come up with alternatives so that not matter what comes to pass, you have an option ready and waiting.
Dating can be nearly as serious as hunting mythic creatures and demons. If you are unsure whether your date will be a good time, you might want to arrange for an "emergency call," where a friend calls during your date to give you a potential excuse to escape.
 Dean is extremely funny and sarcastic. He doesn't shy away from crude humor and sexual innuendos, either.This use of humor has helped him and his brother pull through some difficult situations throughout the TV series, and to be like Dean, you'll need to make use of it as well.


Some aspects of humor are naturally a part of your personality, but that doesn't mean you can't develop your sense of humor. You might be able to train your comedic timing at a stand-up comedy class at your local community center, community college, or comedy club.
 Dean's first experience shooting targets proved that he was a natural shot.Even if you find you're less naturally apt when it comes to handling a firearm, you should take a firearm safety class so that you know how to handle a firearm safely. If you're a beginner when it comes to shooting a weapon, you may want to start with something a little less dangerous, like an airsoft gun.


Many sporting goods stores, firing ranges, and hunting supply stores offer hunter's safety/firearm safety classes. Once you know how to safely handle a gun, you can start target practice.
 Dean is a skilled driver and a accomplished mechanic.You don't have to to master these skills in particular to be like Dean; it's likely that he would appreciate any practical skill that helped fighting the supernatural. Some skills you might consider:


Tracking animals
Camouflaging yourself
Welding

, Dean and Sam have little time to work honest jobs while running around the country putting evil down. To make ends meet while on the road Dean will often hustle money out of bar patrons in games of pool. If you decide to try your hand at hustling, you should be careful! Many places have laws against this sort of thing, and if you win big you might make someone upset enough to start a fight.


Instead of pool, you might find that you're stronger at playing darts. But even where darts are concerned, hustling may be illegal where you live and may get you into trouble.
Dean is also quite fond of cards. Playing poker won't require a billiard table or dart board and requires little space. Carry a deck of cards around with you and perfect your poker skill so you can win the pot just like Dean., While Dean might come off as a womanizing meat-head, according to his brother Sam, aside from being one of the best hunter's of the supernatural Sam's ever met, Dean is also one of the best educated in lore.Without a knowledge of monsters' and demons' weaknesses, Dean would never be able to stop them from hurting people.


For more historic information on fighting evil, you might look into reading the medieval witch hunter manual, Der Hexenhammer, also called the Malleus Maleficarum or "The Hammer of Witches."