 Are you used to sleeping in a full set of pajamas? Even if you normally wear a t-shirt to bed, you might need a night or two to adjust before sleeping fully nude. Going straight from fully clothed to naked might disrupt your sleep at first. Plan to wear just your underwear (no bra) at first to see how it feels.


Sleeping in just your underwear provides some of the benefits of sleeping naked. More of your skin is exposed to the air, and this circulation helps promote clearer skin.
However, having underwear on will still cause your body to rely on that extra layer to help regulate heat. The parts of your body covered by underwear won't receive healthy air circulation. That's why it's worth giving nude sleeping a chance.;
, Sleeping naked is healthy because it allows your skin to be free of constrictive clothing for a good seven to eight hours. Choose fabrics made from natural materials, preferably cotton, so that the air in your bedroom can circulate through to your body.


Using polyester and other synthetic materials isn't as healthy for your skin. The fabrics may keep you too warm or block the air, negating the positive effects of sleeping naked.
If you're really concerned about having the healthiest night's sleep possible, choose sheets made with organic fibers. That way your naked skin won't be exposed to any chemicals.
 Many people complain that it's too cold to sleep naked during the winter. This can easily be remedied by using the proper bedclothes for the season. If you have a good down comforter, your body will adjust to the environment and stay nice and warm without the need for pajamas. In the summer, a sheet and a thin cotton blanket might be all you need to stay comfortable.


It helps to have a good collection of quilts or thin cotton blankets you can keep in your bedroom. That way you can add or subtract layers depending on your needs.
Using a top sheet all year round is helpful. You can kick off your blanket if you need to and still have a sheet to keep you from feeling completely exposed.
 You may find sleeping naked more comfortable if you bathe just before bed. Your skin will feel fresh and clean, and your sheets will stay clean longer that way, too. Taking a warm bath before bed will also help you feel sleepy, so you'll get an even better night's rest.
 In the morning, you'll have something to slip on immediately so you won't be cold on your way to the bathroom. It's also good to have a robe nearby in case of an emergency. You'll be able to rest easier knowing your robe is right there in case there's some reason you have to quickly leave your bed in the night.
 Skin to skin contact throughout the night causes the body to release oxytocin, a hormone that makes you feel good and helps to alleviate stress and depression. It even reduces blood pressure.Take full advantage of the benefits of sleeping naked by having your partner do it with you.


As an added bonus, feeling your partner's bare skin next to yours can lead to more frequent sex. In this way, sleeping naked can increase intimacy with your partner and strengthen your relationship.To make sure you both stay comfortable, keep an extra blanket or two on both sides of the bed. That way each partner can layer according to his or her preference.
 Humans sleep more deeply in cooler temperatures. When your body overheats, often due to restrictive clothing, you don't get the deep, restorative rest you need to stay healthy.No matter what the season, keep the temperature in your bedroom low and sleep naked so your body can self-regulate its temperature. If you feel chilly in the night, just use an extra blanket; it's much better for you than wrapping your body in tight pajamas.


Sleeping in cooler temperatures also helps your body regulate melatonin and growth hormone. If you don't get the deep rest that comes with sleeping in a cool space, your body doesn't get the chance to properly produce these hormones, which are essential to repairing your cells.
Sleeping more deeply will also regulate your body's production of cortisol, a hormone produced when the body experiences stress that leads to weight gain and other health problems. Allow your body to rest completely will prevent it from getting flooded with damaging cortisol., Since you're already getting the benefits of sleeping naked in a cool room, you might as well go all out and get the very best sleep you can. Unplug your nightlights and electronics so you can sleep in a pitch-black room. Sleeping in total darkness allows your brain to be fully at rest, contributing to a great night's sleep.


Avoid checking your phone or laptop right before you close your eyes. The light from these devices can prevent you from sleeping well.
If light from the street keeps your room from being pitch-black, invest in blackout curtains for a better night's sleep.
 Cool, dry air improves your body's circulation. It also provides the right conditions for improving the health of sex organs for both men and women. For men, keeping the genitals at a cooler temperature helps with sexual function and keeps sperm healthy. For women, allowing cool, dry air to circulate can help prevent yeast infections., If you live in a house with other people aside from your partner, you probably want to take precautions to avoid awkward moments. Make sure the kids are tucked in and ready to sleep before you perform your own nightly routine and get undressed. This limits the prospect of a sleepy kid barging in on you while you're naked.


If you're particularly worried, don't get undressed until the moment before you hop into bed. Brush your teeth and turn off the light while you're still clothed.
Don't forget to keep a robe right next your bed, just in case.
 You may be in a position to lock or lightly bar the door so no one can walk right in. If you're living in a house with other adults, you might want to get a lock installed so you'll feel more comfortable being naked in your bedroom. If you have little kids and locking the door isn't feasible, try placing a thick towel under the door or putting a chair in front of it. That way you'll get at least a few moments' warning before your child makes his or her way in.
 That way you'll be up and clothed before the kids come knocking at your door. If you need more sleep, but you know other people in the house will be waking soon, you can put on a nightshirt and get back into bed to spend the last few moments of your morning sleeping clothed.
 You may want to have a conversation with your kids to tell them that your bedroom is your private space between certain hours. Have them get into the habit of knocking and waiting for your reply before they come inside. That will give you time to put on your robe before they see you naked.


There will probably be times when your kids do manage to see your bare shoulders peeking out from the covers, and that's OK. It's perfectly normal to sleep naked, and the fact that you do is not something you need to hide from your children.
Letting them know that you and your partner sleep naked, and that everyone deserves privacy before they put their clothes on, is a fine way to handle the situation and hopefully prevent awkward barge-ins.

