 Begin gliding the tip of the pen across the page and within the lines by pulling your arm to the side. Most people tend to write with the muscles in their hand controlling movement for each letter. Aside from a more consistent pressure being applied, you will avoid fatigue in the fingers if you use the large muscles of the arm to control your strokes.


Focus specifically on using the shoulder muscle to glide the pen across the page. Practice by writing pretend letters in the air.The wrist should remain fairly stationary.
 Unlike ballpoint pens which often require pressure, writing with a fountain pens do not require the same amount of pressure. In fact, if working properly, a fountain pen should require virtually zero pressure. Pushing down too firmly with a fountain pen can actually damage the nib and affect the flow of ink., This should be common-sense once holding the fountain pen. Some people, however, develop a habit of rotating writing devices to find an ideal spot or sharpened edge that will not work with fountain pens. Rotation with a fountain pen will change the proper page alignment, and result in potential scratching., Using your arm muscles to write in a new way will cause some fatigue and inconsistency, so it’s smart to start with the basics. Write slashes, circles, spirals, and the letter X. Write them for several lines or pages to get used to the feel of using a fountain pen. You’re looking for flowing, evenly-spaced, uniform letters.It may be beneficial to practice by using multiple lines in your first attempts, gradually shrinking the letters into the traditional single-spaced lines.
 Once you’ve practiced simple strokes, writing complete sentences could provide a different dilemma. If the nib feels like it’s scratchy, you need to try a different angle, ensure that the nib isn’t rocking as you write, or reevaluate that you’re using the proper muscles. Adjusting these techniques will allow the ink to flow freely and reduce the scratching on the paper.

