 The amount of sugar in your sorbet base will determine the texture of your final product. Too much sugar will keep the sorbet from freezing, while too little sugar will leave you with an icy final product. The right amount of sugar in a sorbet also depend on the sugar content of the fruit itself, which is difficult to quantify.The “pros” use a tool called a refractometer that allows for measuring how much sugar is present in a solution.However, you can also just experiment with different batches of sorbet to determine how much sugar works best for you!

, In general, the best ratio for making sorbet is 4 parts of fruit puree to 1 part sugar.In most recipes, this means 4 cups of pureed fruit to 1 cup of sugar. If you are using a very sweet fruit, you might want to use a bit less sugar. A tart fruit (such as lemon) may require a bit more sugar.


It is best to start with the standard 4:1 ratio and then experiment with adding more or less sugar to subsequent batches as you master the art of sorbet.
 Simple syrup, a mixture of sugar and water, is recommended in many sorbet recipes.Dissolving the sugar in water makes the texture more even and allows it to blend into the pureed fruit more easily. However, some sorbet purists point out that the use of as simple syrup waters down the flavor of sorbet (by adding water).If you do choose to use simple syrup, dissolve 1 cup of sugar into 1 cup boiling (or near-boiling) water. Then allow the solution to cool completely.You can either add the cooled simple syrup to the pureed fruit or add the pureed fruit to simple syrup while it is still hot (in the pan) and allow the mixture to cool together., Alcohol, like sugar, lowers the freezing point of a solution, which affects the texture of sorbet. If you add alcohol, be sure to add it sparingly (too much can keep the sorbet from freezing at all) and be sure that the flavor will complement the fruit in the sorbet. A few ideas are:


Strawberry with rum (daiquiri, anyone?)
Pear with a Riesling wineBlackberry with merlot wineOrange with chocolate liqueur

, Some fruits that are very thin or low in fiber, such as lemon, may freeze into a sorbet more effectively if combined with corn syrup instead of granulated sugar. , To determine whether your mixture has the right amount of sugar in it, try floating a (washed and dried) large egg in the pureed fruit and sugar mix. A nickel-sized portion of the egg should be visible.If the egg sinks or a very small amount of the egg is visible, add more sugar to your mixture.
If more than a nickel-sized portion of egg is visible, you have too much sugar and you should add more fruit puree, fruit juice, or water to lessen the sugar ratio.
 When you have the perfect ratio of fruit and sugar, cool your mixture in the fridge to get it ready to turn into sorbet.

