 The body of the LEGO man should be a basic LEGO brick without the circles or connecting links pasted on.


Remove the bottom from a torso-length and shoulder-width cardboard box. Cut holes out for the head and arms, and paint the box red.






If you feel a little more daring, you could try creating a shirt pattern on the front of the box. Spray paint the box white and draw a collar and two pockets on the front. Outline these features with black paint, and use a pencil and paintbrush to paint a red tie on the front.






Underneath the box, wear a long-sleeve shirt that matches the color of the cardboard torso.
 Cover the top of the sonotube with a cardboard circle and cut out two holes for the eyes.

Sonotube is a type of thick cardboard cylinder usually used for forming round concrete columns. You can use any cardboard or styrofoam cylinder large enough to fit over your head, however.






Place the sonotube over a flat piece of cardboard and trace a circle that perfectly matches the diameter of the tube. Cut this circle out with scissors or a box cutter and glue it to the sonotube with craft glue or hot glue.






Gauge where the eye holes need to be by holding the sonotube next to the wearer's head. Use a pencil to mark off where they eye level of the LEGO head needs to be. Draw and cut out your eye holes at this level.






Spray paint the entire cylinder yellow. Draw a smile beneath the eye holes using black paint and a paintbrush.
 Paint a small, thin, round container or circular piece of cardboard yellow and glue it to the top of the sonotube.

The circle should be half the diameter of the sonotube.






Use craft glue or hot glue to attach the circle to the sonotube. The two centers should be aligned.
 Cut the boxes in half at knee-height and fix them together with heavy-duty craft wire.

The boxes should be just wide enough for the wearer's legs to fit through and just long enough to reach from the top of the leg to the top of the foot. Make sure that the boxes are snug on the wearer's legs to help keep them in place.






Cutting the box in half at the knee allows the wearer to bend at the knee. Punch even holes in the top and bottom of each half and thread wire through the holes to connect the two halves together. The wire will keep the leg halves together while allowing the wearer to continue bending the knee.






Also connect the legs to the torso box using the same heavy-duty craft wire. Punch a hole in the bottom of the torso box on each side and another hole in the tops of each top leg halves.
 Use thin yellow mittens to mimic the appearance of LEGO man hands. Wear shoes that match the color of your LEGO man pants, whether those are black or blue.

Make sure to wear mittens, not gloves. You should not wear anything that has separate fingers.







