 Math can cause stress in many people. Unfortunately, stress can hinder your memory and zap your will.If you approach geometry with a positive attitude, you are already giving yourself a good start.


Math is something anyone can learn. It is a myth that some people have math brains and others don’t.With appropriate effort and support, anyone can excel in geometry.
Unlike algebra, calculus, and other math subjects, geometry is more visual, and based on concrete concepts dealing with shapes and figures. You might find that even if you struggled with more abstract branches of math in the past, geometry is easy to understand, and even fun.;
, More than any other school subject, math is sequential, and skills and concepts build upon previous skills and concepts.If you miss one day, you are likely to be lost on the day you return, scrambling to keep up. This may lead to you losing two days of geometry, and it will be difficult to catch up.


If you need to make an appointment for part of the school day, try to schedule it so that it does not interfere with your math period.If you know in advance that you are going to be absent, talk to the instructor and see whether you can get the assignments for that day to preview and complete.
If you are absent, make sure you get all the work you need to complete from your instructor or a friend.
If you are gone multiple days in a row, find out how long the instructor will give you to make up the work. Making up a lot of work on top of keeping up with your current work can be a daunting task. Create a calendar with your deadline. Divide up your work into smaller assignments to complete each night, until all the make-up work is complete., You can make an agreement with a study partner to share notes if the other person is absent.Just make sure your study partner is reliable. If you form a group, you can get together with some of your classmates to review new concepts, or to review for a test.


Studying with friends can be fun, and will help ease any math anxiety you might have.
 If you get lost in the middle of class, you need to get your questions answered as soon as possible, or you risk falling further behind. Don’t be afraid to raise your hand and speak up. It is likely that if you are confused, other students in the class are confused as well.It is better to ask the teacher your questions, not your neighbor. Your neighbor may not have the right answer, or you may get in trouble for speaking in the middle of class. Also, while talking to your neighbor, you risk missing out on new information the instructor may be presenting at that time.
Many people are afraid to ask questions in class because they are embarrassed, and think they will look dumb. Although it’s unlikely a classmate will think you’re dumb (in fact, asking questions can make you look smarter), it is probably worth the risk of being embarrassed for a moment in order to make sure you understand the work. If your teacher is the one making you feel bad for asking a question, talk to your parents and principal.If you have trouble getting over your fear of asking questions in front of classmates, you can always write down your questions and ask your teacher after class.

