 The first task is to remove leftover meat from the turkey carcass. Cutting with a knife works to a point, but you also end up losing quite a bit of meat with this method. You’ll be able to work with much better precision by hand.


Removing the meat from a turkey is a messy job, so roll up your sleeves. You’ll also want to wear an apron or to change out of nice clothes.
The job doesn’t take long but is well worth the effort. Depending on the size of your bird, you’ll end up with enough leftover meat to last at least for several days. Oftentimes, you can fill up one or two large containers.;
, Removing leftovers from a turkey carcass is largely a matter of sorting. You will want to find the edible pieces of meat while getting rid of any inedible pieces, like bones, cartilage, and fat. When you’re done, the bird should be little more than a bare ribcage.


While some pieces are easy, like stripping drumsticks for meat, there are less obvious spots on the bird with good meat. Look closely and work systematically.
Make sure to strip the turkey breast of all its white meat. The wings may look small, but they also contain some edible meat.
Once you’ve picked the front of the turkey clean, turn it over and begin to work over the backside. The areas near the thighs and backside have a lot of delicious dark meat, once you strip away the layer of skin and fat.
Break open the ribcage. There is sometimes salvageable meat inside.
In some families, the neck bone is a prized piece of the turkey and gets eaten fast. If your family is not so fond of it, however, know that the neck bone has a bit of meat on it. Using your fingers, you can scrape the meat off.
 Take all of the meat that you’ve removed and place it inside a plastic tupperware container. Then, be sure to store it inside of a refrigerator or other cool place. Try to finish the job within two hours after the meal in order to minimize the growth of bacteria.


Leftover turkey should keep for between 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator.If you don’t plan to eat the leftovers immediately, consider freezing them instead. They will keep longer this way.
 Now, dispose of what remains in your “discard pile.” You can throw it away or, if you’d rather get as much mileage out of the bird as possible, consider making stock. Boiling the carcass into stock yields a rich broth for soups or other food, and releases leftover fats, flavors, small bits of meat.To make stock, take the carcass and bones and cover them with about 10-12 cups of water in a soup pot.
Chop up 3 celery stalks and one onion, adding them to the pot. If you’d like, you can also add carrots, several sprigs of parsley, and about ½ teaspoon of ground black pepper.Boil the pot and then reduce heat to a simmer. Continue to simmer the carcass until the liquid is reduced by about 1/3, which should take about 3 ½ hours.
When finished, strain the broth and discard the solids. Let the liquid cool for a time and then either refrigerate or freeze the broth.
 With the turkey meat salvaged, you should be able to assemble a fine sandwich. The first task is to pick your bread. While two slices is standard, the more ambitious or hungry might go for three slices to create a double-decker sandwich.


While white or whole wheat bread work fine, you needn’t limit yourself. The slight tang of rye and sourdough can add a nice touch to overall flavor of the sandwich, too.
 Now, take the two (or three) slices of bread and set them on a plate or on a chopping block. With a bread knife, spread your chosen condiment on one side of each slice of bread.


Mayonnaise is a perennial favorite for sandwiches. There are many alternatives, however. Hummus, pesto, mustard, and mashed avocado are all solid condiments.One highly underrated sandwich spread is horseradish sauce, or the closely related, mayo-based horseradish cream. Horseradish has a pleasant, somewhat tangy taste. Be careful not to use too much, however, as it can irritate your sinuses.
 Once you’ve spread your condiment, take salt and pepper and lightly season the bread and spread. Freshly ground pepper tastes best, but pre-ground works just as well in a pinch.
 Select turkey meat from your leftovers and place on top of one slice of bread. If you’re constructing a double-decker sandwich, using three slices, add the meat to two slices of bread.


Try to use a mix of white and dark meat. White meat is lower in fat and leaner, but it can be dry.
 Fixings are what separate the regular turkey sandwich from the after-Thanksgiving turkey sandwich and what elevate it to a special place in the food canon. To start, take some leftover cranberries. On the extra slice of bread, place a slice of either jellied cranberries or a spoonful of sauce. Then, spread.


If you are feeling hungry, put more turkey meat on top of the cranberry sauce.
 Take stuffing from your other leftovers and apply it over the cranberry sauce in a generous layer. You can also add it to both sides, if you desire.


Some people also like to add leftover vegetables like peas, onions, or corn kernels. This is up to you.
Try to use whatever leftovers you have handy and whatever suits you. Some people will also use mashed potatoes, baked beans, corn casserole, or others dishes on their sandwiches.
 Once you have piled on the meat and fixings, assemble the pieces of bread one on top of the other to complete the sandwich. You are now ready to eat.


Your sandwich might now be too large to cut in half or to pick up. If that is the case, eat it with a fork and knife.
If you’d like, warm the sandwich in the microwave for about 15-30 seconds. It’ll taste even better.
Consider using leftover gravy for a further enhancement, as well, turning it into a hot turkey sandwich.
