)Don't wear skimpy tube tops, booty shorts,etc. If you can't afford to buy expensive clothes, go to Marshall's, TK Maxx, Ross, or Target. No one will ever know the difference between a shirt from Macy's and a shirt from Target, if the Target shirt is well taken care of. Remember, you should let your face give the impression, not the rest of your body. There's not need to follow particular trends; whatever looks good on you and you like is what you should wear.
 You don't need to wear so much pink, but do pick one color to be your 'main' color, something you like and that looks good on you. Of course, you don't have to wear this color all the time.
 Also, try to roll up your skirt, but just a little bit, let's you get caught. If you are allowed to wear heels, wear them! If you have to wear panty hose, put on some sheer black or nude ones. Wear a skirt when possible, and buy your uniform shirts a few seizes too small-- most of them are made to look big on you! Just remember don't be trashy.
 If you are wearing a one-piece, make it a cute one with a dip back. Wear a headband and a side ponytail along with big glasses if you don't plan on swimming, but if you do, opt for a back ponytail and leave out a little hair. Try a sarong that is short or a tennis style cover-up. Don't just spend all of your time tanning if you want to swim--just don't wear any makeup!

, Sporting events have very casual outfits, so be sure to wear something pretty, but easy to move in. 'Formal occasion' on an invitation may need an evening gown, or it might just mean 'no jeans'. Make sure you know how other invitees are dressing and read through an entire invitation

, As a Barbie Girl, you need to have lots and lots of shoes. For school shoes, during the winter, UGGs. If you can't afford UGGs, shoot for Emus or Bearpaw Boots. You can even do cowboy boots! For P.E. class, keep a pair of nice sneakers in your locker-- the more comfortable the better.


When wearing sneakers, wear low-cut ankle socks. For fun and if allowed, get them in bright colors, mismatch them, or add a fun print.
 Obviously more are encouraged. Keep on shopping! Take care of your shoes and polish them every so often-- white shoe polish for white shoes, black shoe polish for black shoes.

