 Even a minimal system can be expensive, and you may need to add the cost of the water if you are connected to a public utility or other water provider.;
, Drilling a well may be an option, but the additional cost can be prohibitive. Connecting to fire hydrants may be possible if the utility the hydrant belongs to permits use for this purpose, but you will likely be required to use a backflow preventer and water meter, and to disconnect the system when you are not on site.
, Many home centers offer computer assisted design (CAD) services free of charge if you buy the materials from them.
 Make sure you can valve off your sprinkler lines to control water flow after the system is installed. You can use standard ball or gate valves for this purpose, or invest in electrically operated irrigation valves if you choose to install a timer or controller in your system.
 This ensures that their presence doesn't impede mowing, traffic, or other activities that will take place in the irrigated area.
 An example would be a gear driven Rain Bird R-5000 head which can cover a 32 foot (9.7 meters) radius using 3 gallons (11 liters) of water per minute at 22 pounds per square inch pressure.
 Allow enough water to run through the system to clean sand or other heavy material from within the pipes. For long runs with multiple heads, you may have to begin installing the heads closest to the water source to create enough pressure and velocity to flush the lines further down the run.
 Temporary irrigation such as those used by contractors often reuse components, including pipe and fittings, and these may be damaged during handling and while in storage. Even new pipe may have invisible damage that will appear when the system is operating, and repairing leaks before the heads are installed will prevent the need to re-flush it later.
 Make sure they are stable, and stake each head if necessary to prevent them from becoming loose or breaking off during use. Use nylon zip ties to anchor the heads to the stakes.
, Watch the heads as they prime up and begin to operate, to make sure they are functioning as anticipated.
 Allow the system to run long enough to determine the amount of water you are applying is sufficient. You can place buckets or cans to collect water for a specified period of time, then measure to calculate how much is being applied, often measured in fractions of inches or inches (or millimeters).
 This means that they are exposed to hazards, so make it a routine to inspect the system regularly, preferably before each watering cycle, as busted pipes can cause flooding or erosion problems, as well as wasting water.

