 After you've done a lot of cleaning, but you still have a lot to go, take a break. Good job. Give yourself a pat on the back before getting back to it.


If you fail to take breaks, you may get discouraged. Move around, exercise or have a lie down. Do whatever releases stress for you.;
, Sort through each pile until the room is clean.
 Add some white noise or your favorite music to keep you motivated. When the house physically looks cleaner, you feel more accomplished, and motivated. Start with the rooms that are seen most by the public, such as the living room.
, Hang up coats. Put away shoes. Bring that kite your kids broke to the dump. Mop or vacuum the doorway. Beat the dirt and dust out of and mats or rugs.


Wipe down the outside of the front door and any door-side windows.
 Change the tablecloth, set the table, repair the crack in that chair at the end of the table.
 Start with the kitchen. Put away the dishes and wipe down the counter. Label and organize spices. Organize the pantry. Now go through your fridge. Check the expiry dates on everything and organize foods.
 Let the toilet soak, spray the mirror, change the garbage, switch the soap.
 Darks, whites, mediums, towels. It has to be done.
 Start with the spare bedroom. Clean the sheets, vacuum the floor, dust the tables. Then your bedroom. Make your bed, organize your makeup, dust the blinds. If you have kids, clean their rooms! They would appreciate it. Change the sheets, fold their clothes, switch the light bulb in the lamp.
 Travel through your basement to the attic. You never know where that sock you lost 2 years ago could turn up.
 This is a big challenge area. Dust the TV screen, vacuum the floor, organize the toys, rearrange the furniture.
 This area needs cleaning out at least once a year. Grimy and greasy, it's a big challenge task.
 This is one of the last steps.
 Vacuum, dust, and clean mirrors and windows. Make sure to check under cushions and furniture for smaller items that need to be put or thrown away. Vacuum under the cushions.
 Get organizers for paper, magazines, whatever is in each room. Sort through one thing at a time in every room, making piles and organizing, until everything is clean

, See if there is anything else you can do. Part of an organized home is the chores. Go around the house checking for things you can do like dishes or laundry.
 You've done it––congratulations!

