 Dry rubs add flavor to meat without ruining their tenderness, and are often sold as "seasoned salts" or "steak seasonings." You can also, however, make your own. Mix the following spices with 1/2 tablespoon salt and crushed black pepper, then massage the rub into both sides of the sirloin. Use equal parts of each spice, roughly 1-1/2 tablespoons, and don't be afraid to mix and match.


Onion powder, paprika, chili powder, and garlic powder.
Dried rosemary, thyme, and oregano, garlic powder.
Cayenne, chili powder, paprika, Mexican oregano, garlic powder.Brown sugar, chili pepper, paprika, garlic powder, and ground coffee, Wet marinades are only effective overnight, so don't make one at the last minute and expect a lot of taste changes. The acid in wet marinades (vinegar, lemon juice, etc.) breaks down some of the meat tissue, making the meat more tender.Too much acid, however, can ruin the texture and make a crispy grilled exterior impossible. Place the steaks in a bag with the marinade and leave them in the fridge overnight to get the best results.


1/3 cups of soy sauce, olive oil, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, plus 1-2 tablespoons garlic powder, dried basil, parsley, rosemary, and crushed black pepper.1/3 cup red wine vinegar, 1/2 cup soy sauce, 1 cup vegetable oil, 3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons Dijon mustard, 2-3 cloves minced garlic, 1 tablespoon ground black pepper.
 There is a reason that most steakhouse steaks come with a pat of butter on top. Butter seeps into the cuts of the meat and elevates it into the perfect entree. You can try making compound butter with spices and herbs as well to get a extra flavor. To make compound butter, mix 6 tablespoons butter with herbs in a food processor, then freeze the mixture until it is time to put on your steak. You can also heat it on low on the stove top and brush the melted butter and herbs on the steak when it is done.


1 teaspoon thyme, sage, rosemary, chopped.
2-3 cloves minced garlic
1 teaspoon chili powder, cilantro, and cayenne pepper.
 Most steaks can stand by themselves as delicious meals, but a well-chosen topping can make them even better. Things to try on top include:


Caramelized onions, peppers, or mushrooms.
Fried onions.
Blue cheese crumbles.
Sour cream.

