 Most people tend to be smaller at the waist than at the hips, so wearing high-waisted bottoms will stop your pants from unnaturally dividing your hips and waist. Moreover, this will stop your waistband from cutting you off where you're bigger and creating a bulge.Look for bottoms that sit at or just above your belly button.Also, look for bottoms that have thicker waistbands—ones with at least two buttons—and that sit higher in the back than the front, as these won’t cut you off in an awkward area.;
, Clothes with empire waists are tighter at the waist and then flare out and down from there, and these garments are flattering because they accentuate the waist and hide tummies and love handles.


Similarly, A-line clothes are thinner at the top and flare out at the bottom, so skirts and dresses with this cut balance out larger torsos and make love handles less noticeable., While the old advice says that wearing darker colors is always more slimming, this isn't entirely true. Instead of wearing all black to hide your love handles and look slimmer, wear a darker color where you’re heaviest and a light color where you're smaller.For instance, if you want to make a large tummy look smaller, wear black around your middle and a pop of color on top. You can achieve this by wearing a high-waisted A-line skirt paired with a bright top tucked in, for example.
 There are a few shirt types that are more flattering for people who need some extra room in the middle, and they’ll also draw attention away from the love handles. Flattering shirts tend to have a little more flow to them, and these include:Kimono-style shirts
Kaftans
Wrap shirts and dresses

, Another way to hide love handles is to bury them under a bold print or pattern, or to cover them up with a ruffled design that will obscure what's underneath.Look for tops with ruching on the sides or some subtle ruffles
Experiment with intricate patterns, diagonal stripes, and eye-catching prints

, Foundation garments, also called shaping garments, are arguably the most successful way to hide love handles, because they're actually designed to shape and smooth parts of your body. These garments are meant to be worn under your clothes, and ones that will hide love handles include:Full bodysuits and body control dresses, which are great for when you're wearing a slimming dress.
Waist cinchers and control briefs, which are perfect for when you want to wear skinny jeans or tighter fitting pants or skirts.
 When it comes to hiding love handles, avoiding the wrong clothes is just as important as choosing the right ones. Tops that are tight and clingy without being shaping will only serve to show off your love handles, especially when paired with overly tight and unflattering bottoms.Fabrics to avoid include satin, full polyester, and elastane (Spandex and Lycra), all of which cling to your body and accentuate your silhouette., Unlike empires and A-lines, straight-cut clothing emphasizes your middle and stomach area, and this will draw all the attention to your love handles.This applies to pants, tops, skirts, and dresses.
 There are lots of recommendations out there saying to use belts to hide love handles, but even thick and oversized belts can cut into your sides and make love handles even bigger.If you want to wear an oversized belt, choose one that’s loose fitting, wear it around your lower hips, and pair it with a loose top.
Otherwise, stick with skinny belts that don’t cut into your waist.
 Tight underwear, especially ones with thin waistbands or straps, can cut into your flesh and make love handles bigger. In fact, thin, tight straps on underwear can even make you look like you have love handles when you don’t.


Like with bottoms, choose underwear with a higher waist and thicker waistband., This includes bottoms that are too tight and ones that don’t sit where they should.Don’t try to squeeze into bottoms that don’t fit, especially if they're tight at the waist.


For example, skinny jeans may be all the rage right now, but if you're bigger around the middle and choose skinny jeans with a low waist, your love handles are going to bulge out more than ever.
 The other way to hide love handles (or any feature you don’t like) is to draw attention away from it by drawing eyes elsewhere. There are a number of ways you can do this, including with jewelry. A bold and unique necklace will draw eyes to your neck and chest, and keep the attention off your middle.Avoid necklaces that are too long, as they will take the focus back to your mid-section.
 Working on the same theory as the necklace, a brightly color or boldly patterned scarf around your neck will keep the attention on your face and neck, and away from your love handles.You can still wear scarves in spring and summer, but to avoid overheating, look for thinner scarves in lightweight materials such as cotton and linen.
 Long, dangly, or bold earrings also keep attention around your face and away from your middle, and they can help change up your look if you don’t always feel like wearing necklaces and scarves.If you can't wear long earrings to work, or if you find them annoying, look for studs in bold and bright colors, or shorter earrings with loud patterns.
 Another way to bring attention to your chest and neck instead of your love handles is with V-neck, scooped, and plunging necklines. This is a great option for people who can't wear jewelry or scarves at work., You can tie the sleeves of a sweater or jacket around your waist to hide love handles as well, because the bulk from the sleeves will cover up any excessive bulging underneath.


Place the body of the sweater against your bottom, then wrap the sleeves around to the front of your body and tie them in a knot or bow.
In summer, you can use a lightweight, long-sleeved shirt to achieve the same effect.
 A tucked in shirt will fit closer to your body, and this will accentuate your love handles. Instead, wear a nicely tailored shirt and leave the bottom hanging loose. This will give you more room and let the fabric cover your love handles.When you have to tuck in your shirt, such as at work, consider wearing a jacket or blazer over top to hide your love handles.
 Shirts that are loud will draw attention to your middle and your love handles. Instead, choose plain shirts in dark colors that won’t draw the eye to your midsection. Avoid shirts with:Bright colors
Intricate designs or patterns
Stripes or plaids

, When you slouch, your shoulders roll forward and your belly compresses into the center and sticks out, and this will make your love handles look bigger.


When you sit or stand, your back should be straight and your shoulders should be back. Keep your head in line with your body, and activate your core to support your upper body.Proper posture will also help alleviate back pain, headaches, and make you look taller.
 Instead of wearing pants around your hips, wear them at your waist. This will help hide love handles, avoid cutting your body off at an unnatural place, and make you look slimmer overall.


Your waist is the thinnest part of your middle, just below your belly button.
 These are sometimes called shaping or concealing shirts, and they are great for containing excess fat, hiding love handles, and making you look slimmer.Make sure you wear the compression shirt as an undergarment layer beneath your regular shirt.
 It’s not actually possible to target fat loss in a specific area, but you can help reduce love handles by reducing the total amount of excess fat on your body. Exercises that get your heart pumping, such as cardio and aerobic workouts, are some of the best ways to lose fat. For the best results, workout for at least 30 minutes a day four times a week or more.Good cardio workouts include:


Swimming
Running and jogging
Circuit training
Cycling
High-intensity interval training

, Strength training is great because it builds muscles and burns fat at the same time. Even if you don’t have time to hit the gym and pump iron, you can do a simple body weight strength training routine at home:An easy routine is:


20 squats: stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, then squat down so your thighs are parallel with the ground.
10 push-ups: lie facing the ground, supported on the tips of your toes and palms of your hands with your arms straight. Lower your body all the way to the ground while keeping your body straight, then push back up to your starting position.
20 walking lunges: step forward with your right foot and go into lunge. Rise, take another step forward with your left foot, and sink back into lunge.
10 dumbbell rows: push two chairs together and put your right knee on one chair and your right palm on the other. With your left arm, pull a dumbbell (or milk jug or paint can) straight up beside your body, then back down. Repeat 10 times on each side.
15 seconds of planking: lie down facing the ground. Put your arms in front of you, then push yourself up onto your forearms, then push the rest of your body up so you're being supported by your forearms and toes. Keep your body straight.
30 jumping jacks.
 The muscles around your love handles are the obliques, and you can work these muscles to give the area more definition. Combine this with overall fat loss, and your love handles will become smaller and less noticeable. Good oblique workouts include:Side plank crunches: Lie on your right side and prop yourself up on your right elbow. Lift off the ground so your body is supported by your right forearm and the sides of your feet. Crunch your right knee in toward your left elbow, then return to plank. Repeat for 10 to 12 reps, then repeat on the other side.
Plank-to-elbow push ups: Start in plank position so you're facing the ground with your body supported on your toes and forearms. Without rocking your hips, raise yourself up to support your right side on your palm, then do the same with your left side. Then lower back down into plank on your right side, followed by the left. Alternate sides (left side first then right side first again) and repeat for 30 to 45 seconds.

