 First, you need to wash your hair. You can prepare your hair by using a shampoo or conditioner that adds moisture or controls frizz. Remember that rinsing your hair in cool or cold water adds a nice sheen to your hair., Dry your hair so that there is no excess water dripping from the ends of your locks. Press your hair between the folds of the towel rather than rubbing the towel on your head. Sometimes it helps to pull your hair into a towel and leave it there for a few minutes while it sops up the water., By now you should have your products ready to go. Apply any texturizing products you may need to your hair. If you are using pomade or wax, work it into your hair from the roots first.Some people prefer to apply their product after they blow-dry their hair. This is usually only done with lighter products like sea salt spray or anti-frizz spray.
If your hair is fine you may need to tease the product into your roots. You can do this by pulling apart the top layer of your hair and running a comb or brush through it backward. Start from midway through the strand and comb to the root. Keep doing this until a knotted mess forms., Dry your hair using a blow dryer. If your hair is fine, flip your head upside down and blow-dry it from the roots first by massaging your fingers into your roots. This will help add volume to your hair.
 Unless you have curly hair you will need to curl it a bit before you tousle it. To curl your hair you have a few options, depending on how controlled or messy you want your curls to look.


If you want controlled curls you can use a wide barrel curling iron (½ inch to 1 inch wide). Curl sections of your hair, settings them aside as you go. When you have curled all your hair, spray the hair with sea salt or holding spray. Tousle it a bit by running your fingers through it and scrunching it. You can also achieve this using a flat iron as a curling iron.If you want more casual curls, spray a section of your hair with sea salt or holding spray. Twist the section until it twists into a small bun, and clamp it down while it dries (or dry it with your blow dryer). Do this until all your hair is clamped down. Release all the twists and run your fingers through them.If your curls are too controlled you can pull them apart with your fingers. This will create a looser look. , If you are going straight for the tousled look, all you need to do is apply some texturizing spray or holding gel/spray and tousle your hair with your fingers. Sometimes it helps to flip your head upside down to do this., If you want you can wear a headband, barrette, some pins, or pull the hair back into a ponytail. If you do not want to do any of that you can just leave your beautiful locks free flowing.