 Becoming educated is an important part of the care giving process. Misconceptions about HIV/AIDS have caused unnecessary confusion and fear in various communities, preventing individuals from participating in the care and daily activities of a person living with HIV/AIDS.


Read guides and other literature that offer basic information to get a better understanding of the illness.
Participate in a class or support group that focuses on value of an effective caregiver that takes care of a person with HIV/AIDS.
Take a course to learn the skills needed to care for an individual living with the illness in home or hospital setting.
Talk with a medical professional about the different stages and how to develop a comprehensive plan of care for the various phases experienced.;
, They typically do not want to become a burden to anyone. Make them feel comfortable and respect their need for self-sufficiency.


Offer assistance for various tasks such as paying bills, eating, toileting, bathing and dressing.
Arrange items such as remotes, tissues, wash cloths and wastebasket for easy access.
Ask to open blinds or curtains to brighten the room.
Organize the bedroom as close to the bathroom as possible and maintain a clear path from the bed.
 This is critical for an individual living with HIV/AIDS. Infections or germs can cause serious illness. A bacteria free environment is critical when assisting with personal care, food preparation and household tasks to prevent the person from becoming sick.


Wash your hands frequently. Hand washing should also be done anytime you sneeze, cough, handle trash or touch around your mouth and nose.
Wear disposable gloves during personal care and handling laundry.
Bandage any cuts or wounds you have.
Stay away until you are healthy if you become ill with shingles or impetigo.
Wash fresh produce when preparing meals.
Use a clean cutting board when cutting any food item.
Encourage participation when preparing food to maintain esteem.
 Moral support is vital when caring for an individual living with HIV/AIDS. Suffering the various stages of the illness and its complexities can be overwhelming. Open communication can help the person with HIV/AIDS feel positive and provide normalcy.


Avoid forcing a conversation when the person appears preoccupied mentally.
Offer to listen if he or she may wish to talk.
Discuss topics in the news, television or books.
Touch them. Hand holding or hugging offers comfort and acceptance. Respect the person's request if they prefer not to be touched.
Go places together if the person is well enough. Take a trip to the store, museum, park or a short walk. Fresh air and sunshine can be healthy if just sitting on the patio.
 Your health and well-being are also important while caring for an individual with HIV/AIDS. Being at your best will instill confidence in the care you provide. The person you are caring for will feel good that you make a conscious effort to stay healthy in his or her environment.


Get the proper rest.
Eat a balanced diet.
Update your immunizations and annual flu shot to stay healthy.
Talk with the doctor or other medical professional about special precautions you should be aware of if the person you are caring for becomes ill.

