 The elderly, workers in hot environments, obese, diabetics, those with kidney, heart, or circulation problems, and babies are at high risk. Those that have inactive or inefficient sweat glands are particularly susceptible to sunstroke. Avoid activities that force your body to retain heat, especially when it is hot outside like exercising, over-bundling your baby, or being out in the heat for too long without water.


Certain medications also put people at greater risk. These include beta blockers, diuretics, and some medicines used to treat depression, psychosis, or ADHD. , If the heat index is above 90 degree fahrenheit or close to it, be cautious. Avoid taking babies and elderly people out into the heat.


Be aware of the heat island effect. The heat island effect happens when the rural areas are cooler than the city areas. Those in the crowded city usually have increased temperatures ranging from 1.8 - 5.4 degrees fahrenheit higher than in rural areas. At nighttime, the difference can be up to 22 degrees fahrenheit. It can happen in communities because of air pollution, greenhouse gases, water quality, air conditioning costs and energy consumption.Wear light clothing appropriate for the weather.
 Take frequent breaks and find shady areas if working outside. Use sunscreen to avoid sunburn. Always wear a hat when out in the sun, especially if you are susceptible to sunstroke.


One of the most unfortunate causes of sunstroke is sitting in a hot car. Do not sit in a hot car. And do not leave children alone in the car, even for a few minutes.
If you decide to exercise, avoid the peak sun hours from 11:00am to 3:00 pm., Watch your urine color, it should stay a light yellowish color.


Don’t drink caffeine. This will tell the body to become stimulated when what it needs to do is calm down. Though black coffee is 95% water, the effect of caffeine on the body is harmful when the person has signs of sunstroke. The heart will beat harder and faster., Alcohol can interfere with body temperature by constricting your blood vessels, making it harder for blood to flow to keep you warm.