 When you are suffering from tooth pain, brushing your teeth may hurt; however, you should always brush your teeth twice a day. If you are experiencing issues with pain, get a soft toothbrush. This will be gentler on your gums.


You can go back to your normal toothbrush strength after your wisdom tooth pain goes away., If your teeth are coming through, your gums may hurt. To help your teeth along, try massaging the gums around where the teeth are breaking through. This will help alleviate the pain and ease the teeth through your gums.


When massaging your gums, gently rub the top of the erupting tooth with a clean finger. You can also wrap your finger into a sterile gauze and start the massage after you have rinsed with a chlorhexidine mouthwash.
Also get as much of the sides of the tooth area.
Don’t massage them too hard. This can hurt your gums.
Repeat three to four times a day., If you are experiencing pain, try holding an ice cube or some crushed ice on the tooth. This will only work if the tooth is not sensitive to cold. You can also wrap the ice in a cloth or latex casing, such as a small balloon or finger of a latex glove, and place that on your tooth instead.


If both of these are too cold, use an ice pack on the side of your face to help ease the pain in your mouth. The cold will travel through your skin and help the pain. Just make sure you wrap the ice pack in a towel or t-shirt to avoid frostbite., Salt is a great substance to help heal skin. To make a gargle, stir ½ teaspoon of sea salt into four ounces of warm water until it dissolves. Pour part of the mixture into your mouth without swallowing. Move the solution in your mouth over to where the painful tooth is. Hold it in your mouth for 30 to 60 seconds. Don't swish forcefully.


Spit the mixture out. Repeat it two to three times, or until the water is gone.
Once you’re done, rinse your mouth out with warm water.
You can do this three to four times a day while you are in pain., Mix ¼ cup of warm water and apple cider vinegar. Hold the solution in your mouth over the painful tooth for 30 to 60 seconds. Spit it out and repeat two to three times. Rinse with warm water. You can do this three to four times a day, but do not swallow the water-vinegar mixture.Stop using the mixture if you find it irritating.
 There are some fresh ingredients that you use to help with tooth pain. Cut a small piece of garlic, onion, or ginger. Place it in your mouth, directly over your painful tooth. Once it is there, gently bite down on the piece to release the juice.


The juice will help numb and calm your gums., Essential oils can help with your tooth pain. Use these on your fingers, then massage them into your gums with your fingers. You can also make a mouth rinse with a few drops of essential oils and a few ounces of water. Never swallow essential oils. They can be toxic. Good essential oils for tooth pain include:


Tea tree
CloveSage and aloe
Cinnamon
Goldenseal oil
PeppermintYou can also use warm olive oil and warm vanilla extract

, Tea has properties that can help with your pain. To make a tea compress, soak an herbal tea bag in warm water. Once the tea is steeped, put the tea bag over the tooth. Keep it in place for five minutes. Repeat this process two to three times a day while you're in pain. Good teas to use are:


Echinacea tea
Goldenseal tea
Black tea
Sage tea
Green tea, One way to help with pain is to use chilled pieces of food. You can put chilled pieces of cucumber or raw potato on your tooth. You can also use a frozen piece of fruit, such as banana, apple, guava, pineapple, or mango.


This won't work well for you if your tooth is sensitive to cold. Try the chilled cucumber or potatoes first because they will be less cold than the frozen fruit., Asafetida is a plant used in Indian cooking and traditional medicine.Visit an international or Indian grocery store to find this, which typically comes as a powdered or a lump of resin. To make the paste, mix ¼ teaspoon of the powder with enough fresh lemon juice to make a paste. Once it is mixed fully, apply the paste on your wisdom tooth and around the gum. Leave it on your gum for five minutes.


Rinse your mouth out with water to remove the paste from your mouth.
Repeat the application of the paste two to three times a day.
The paste will taste bitter and have an unpleasant odor, but it is gently combated by the lemon juice.