 Having lots of finger foods for your guests to snack on can help to ensure that they will leave satisfied. For example, you can put out:


A tray of various vegetables like tomatoes, zucchini, baby carrots, cucumbers, celery, peppers, along with some dips like ranch and/or hummus.
Potato chips and various dips. You can buy these pre-made at the grocery store and placed into a fancy dish.
A variety of crackers and hard and/or spreadable cheeses.
 If you are feeling overwhelmed by all of the cooking, avoid the step of plating the dinner. Instead, ask guests to come and serve themselves in the kitchen. Alternately, you can put all of the food on the table and ask guests to serve themselves. Many people prefer this approach as it is less formal and involves a more relaxed intimate family environment.
 If you had a seating plan and it is forgotten or people ignore it, try not to get too stressed out about it. Instead, let people sit where they want to sit and enjoy the meal.
 If you burn a dish and your house gets really smoky, you should turn off the burner, put the burnt dish aside, and open the windows. While the house is airing out, you can boil some water with some cloves and cinnamon sticks. In a few minutes, the house will smell festive instead of burnt.


If you have an aromatherapy diffuser, you could use it to mask the smell of smoke.
If you have scented candles, you could use them to improve the smell of the house.
 If there is a mess, clean it up and then relax. Spilled water, milk, broken glass, spilled gravy, stains, and other messes are common during the Thanksgiving holiday. Try not to let these messes stress you out. Take a few deep breaths, clean up the mess, and get back to the celebrations.


If a guest breaks a glass dish or drops a glass of wine on the floor, you can quickly clean it up with a broom and a dustbin. Once you have cleaned up the broken glass with the broom, use a sponge to pick up any remaining shards of glass. You might want to tell people to wear their shoes in that area of the house.Tell people to relax and go into a different room while you clean up.

