 The number of breathes a cat takes each minute is called the respiratory rate. The normal respiratory rate for cat is between 20 to 30 breaths per minute. Both the rate (number of breaths) and how the cat breaths can indicate if she has a problem.


There is a certain amount of leeway in the normal respiratory rate range, for instance a cat taking 32 breaths a minute, who is otherwise perfectly well, is not considered abnormal. You should, however, become concerned if you notice that your cat’s breathing rate is around 35 to 40 breaths per minute, or if her breathing is labored.
 A cat’s normal breathing movements are subtle and difficult to spot, so there may be a problem if your cat seem to be working hard to draw breath. Labored breathing means that your cat must make exaggerated movements with her chest or abdomen in order to suck in or push out air.To determine if your cat is breathing normally, it is best to fix your gaze on one spot (perhaps a whorl of fur on her chest) and watch as it moves slowly up and down.
Her belly muscles should not be involved in filling her chest with air. If her tummy expands and contracts as she breaths, this is abnormal. If her chest "heaves" and makes exaggerated, easy to see, in-out breathing movements, or her belly moves in as she breathes, this is abnormal.
 A cat with breathing difficulties usually adopts the "air hunger" position. She sits or lies with her elbows held away from her body, her head and neck extended as if to straighten her windpipe.A cat in this position may also open her mouth and begin to pant.
 A cat with breathing difficulties may feel distressed. In order to determine if your cat is distressed, look at her facial expression. She may look anxious, with the corners of her mouth drawn back in a grimace. Some other signs of distress include:dilated pupils
ears flattened
whiskers back
acting aggressive when approached
tail close to body

, Cats may pant after exercising in order to cool themselves down, but panting at rest is not normal for a cat. If your cat pants often when resting, seek veterinary advice because this may be a sign of breathing problems.Cats may also pant when they are anxious or frightened, so consider your cat’s environment as well.

