 In order for you to feel confident talking to women, you first need to feel confident about the way you’re presenting yourself. If you feel self-conscious about your body, change your diet and make an effort to go to the gym.You don’t need to have a six-pack to effectively pick up women. Just focus on getting your body to a place where you feel healthy and comfortable.
If you find an exercise regimen that you’re passionate about, you can use that to try to connect with a woman. Ask her what kinds of exercise she likes to do, then strike up a conversation from there.
 You don’t need to completely overhaul your closet, but adding some new options to your wardrobe will increase your confidence and make you look more stylish and pulled together. And don’t underestimate the importance of personal hygiene or grooming.Take a shower and shave before going out on the town.
The devil is in the details – moisturize your skin, clip your nails, put on some cologne (but don’t overdo it).
 Women love funny guys – laughter puts people at ease and is a great way to make a woman feel comfortable around you. If you’re not naturally funny, consider taking an improv or stand up class. This will help you tap into your natural sense of humor and will help you feel more confident making jokes.Have a few go-to jokes or lines that you can use to break the ice or plug into conversations as needed.
Think about what makes you laugh. The more you understand what tickles you, the easier it will be to write jokes or lines that will make other people laugh.
 Women want to meet men, not little boys. If you’re still living with your parents, moving out will be a huge step for you. Getting your own place will make it easier for you to have women over, plus the independence you’ll feel will translate over into increased self-confidence.If you don’t already have a job, get one. Women want to meet and talk to guys who are self-sufficient.
Look for a place in a centralized area, so it will be easy for you to socialize and meet new people.

