 Don't make a hasty decision. Take the time to think through the situation and consider all of the pros and cons about being with him. You don't want to regret ending it a few months later.Are you focusing on trivial things too much? Does it really matter that he doesn't always want to do what you want to do? Are there other things that you both enjoy doing? Answer these questions carefully.
Have your friends or family subtly hinted that he is not good enough and you're letting them get in your head? Evaluate your reasons for the break up.;
, Many people choose to treat their partners poorly in hopes that they will initiate the break up. You could constantly nag at him about doing chores, criticize his clothing, break plans with him continuously, or even cheat on him so that he will end things with you. Then, you won’t have to do it. However, that technique will make you dislike yourself and harm him, too.Your partner might not understand what you’re doing. If you’ve acted consistently and kindly, but change your behavior overnight, he might not take the hint. He may even worry that something is going on with you.You might cause this good person to doubt his self-worth. Why do something like that? It might be uncomfortable, but just tell him the truth.
 You’re not doing yourself any favors by remaining in a relationship just to avoid hurting someone’s feelings. If the nice guy and you don’t have complimentary personalities or dreams, let him go or else you will become stressed. Stress heightens your cortisol levels, which can make you gain weight. Most women dislike gaining weight, and getting into a new relationship won't be fun or easy if you don't like how you look.Heightened cortisol can throw your immune system, your digestive system, and even your reproductive organs out of wack. Keep that stress in check--don't procrastinate having this conversation!, Most people dread breaking up with someone and may choose to procrastinate or simply stop interacting with that person altogether. Leaving your significant other in the dark is bad form and will make you both feel worse.The end of something significant, like a relationship or a job, is heavy stuff. Recognize that the break up will emotionally impact both your boyfriend and you.We recall beginnings and endings more vividly than the middle parts of our experiences. Don't end things in a way that will tarnish the memories that you had of one another. When people have closure, they feel at peace instead of obsessing over went wrong. As a result, they exert energy on other people or life pursuits rather than on mulling over the relationship. Both of you deserve the ability to quickly move on. 