 Generally, rayon clothes are fairly fragile, but can still be machine-washed with care. However, some rayon clothes are un-washable. To avoid tearing your clothing, bleeding colors, or otherwise ruining your favorite clothes, always follow the instructions on the care label.


Though this section contains instructions on both machine-washing and hand-washing viscose (rayon) clothing, these instructions should be taken as generalities and not as hard and fast rules. In other words, always prioritize your garment's unique care instructions over the ones provided in this section.;
, If your rayon clothing's care instructions specify that it can be washed, it's almost always better to hand-wash it than to machine wash it. Rayon clothing is extra-fragile when it's wet and, thus, is less likely to be damaged by your own careful hands than by the agitation of a washing machine. Place your rayon clothing in cool or temperate water and add hand-washing detergent. Gently work and massage the soap suds into the clothing, taking care not to handle the clothing roughly.


Never squeeze, bunch up, or wring out rayon clothing to remove water, as this can tear the delicate fibers. Instead, gently shake any excess moisture out.
 If you're confident that your rayon clothing won't be damaged by machine washing, try to ensure that only similar types of rayon clothing are in the load. Rougher clothes, like denim jeans, can catch on the rayon during the wash cycle, pulling and tearing it.


Use cool water and a gentle washer setting for added security.
 Another way to protect your rayon clothing in the washing machine is to place all of the rayon clothing in your load into a net laundry bag. This ensures it doesn't mix with the other clothing in your load, eliminating much of the risk of tearing.
 When your rayon clothing is washed, remove each piece of clothing individually and gently shake it to remove moisture. Smooth out any wrinkles with your hands. Then, hang on a non-metal wire to dry (metal wires can leave rust spots).


Alternatively, you can use a drying rack or simply dry your clothing on a clean, flat surface.
 In addition to having the problems associated with washing machines (harsh agitation, etc.), electric dryers are also known to shrink rayon clothing and drastically shorten the life of the garment.If you can avoid using an electric dryer for your clothing, do so. If you can't, use a low temperature setting and dry only with other pieces of rayon clothing.
 Never apply a hot iron to the outer face of a rayon garment - this can burn and melt the fibers in the fabric, creating an unattractive "shine" that can't be removed.Always turn rayon clothing inside out before using an iron. To provide additional protection, you may also want to iron the clothing while it is slightly damp.


If you must iron rayon clothing right side out, place a cloth between the hot surface of the iron and the garment to protect the fabric.

