 You’ll need construction paper, a large foam block, some funky fabric, stiff wire, sewing tools, scissors, and glue.


Funky fabric should be some sort of fabric with an interesting or psychedelic design. Vintage pillow cases or drapes are good options here. You will only need about two square feet of fabric to cover your hat. Try to buy an old piece of fabric that has pinstripes or strange colors. This would match the Mad Hatter's look. You can even cut up an old shirt you find at a thrift store, or a curtain.;
, You need to know this in order to make a hat that will actually fit you. Use a cloth tape measure to measure your head. You may need someone to help you.
 The paper should be ten inches in height and the width should be the same as the circumference of your head. Now securely tape the two ends of the piece of paper together to form a large cylinder.


You can use multiple pieces of paper if one piece isn't large enough to cover your whole head.
 The radius is the distance from a center of a circle to its outer edge. It doesn’t have to be exact, just try to draw the best circle that you can. Cut it out with your scissors or a utility knife. It shouldn’t be more than one or two inches thick.
 The foam circle should be slightly larger than your paper cylinder, which will help to give the hat a Mad Hatter look. Try to center the cylinder in the middle of the foam circle. The foam circle will form the top of the hat. Cut off any excess foam.
 You should cut the fabric into smaller pieces to make it more workable. Try to stretch the fabric tight to the hat and fold it inside the cylinder to give the hat a more realistic look. Glue the fabric in place. Make sure to cover all the white on the paper and the foam.


Attach some lace to the brim of the hat if you want to add some depth.
 The radius of your wire circle should be two to three inches larger than the radius of your cylinder. Now cut another large piece of fabric using your cylinder as an outline. Cut the cloth about three inches wider so that you are able to wrap it all the way around the wire circle.
 Glue the fabric so that so that the majority of the cloth is hanging out the bottom in a circle. , You can also use pins to connect the wire circle to the paper cylinder, but it will be much less steady. Sewing is the best option. Once the wire is connected to the cylinder you’ll have finished the brim of your hat. 