 If your class is in a large auditorium, it can be very easy for students to see exams of people around them. If there is enough room, have students space themselves out so that there are empty seats in between students.


Monitor the students carefully by walking around the classroom throughout the exam.
Use at least two different versions of the exam so that people sitting next to each other do not have the same version., Keep your eyes on the students for the entire exam. Watch for signs of cheating. Someone might look up at the ceiling pretending to work out an answer, but they are really trying to see a classmate’s paper. Others might look down at their lap constantly, either trying to see their notes poking out of their bag, or at their phone in their lap.
 A student might come up to the front of the class with a question, which will take your attention away from your classroom monitoring. This gives the other students a few moments to pass notes, look at their phones or otherwise engage in cheating behavior., If you notice a student continuously coughing, tapping the bench or their foot, or whispering, they may be cheating.


Students might have different signs for different answers; for example, on a multiple choice test, if the answer is A, they might tap their pencil. If the answer is B, they might shuffle their test around, and so on.
 Whispering to another student is usually a pretty clear sign that someone is cheating or trying to cheat. Tell students that there is no talking allowed during the exam.
 On a multiple choice test, some students might write a large letter A (or whatever the answer is) next to a question, so that their answer is easy to read from the vantage point of another student. You can prevent this if you use different versions of the test, for example, and make questions 4 and 5 multiple choice on one test and questions 2 and 3 multiple choice on the other version.
 One of the most longstanding methods of cheating is to write answers on a student’s hand or arm, in between fingers, or on another body part.


Many students are quite savvy about this strategy, bringing alcohol wipes to remove pen ink from their skin before turning in their test.
Students, especially females, might try writing notes on their legs. They will then wear a skirt of a particular length that covers the writing but that can be inched upward to reveal the notes. Teachers should be wary of challenging a student who has writing on their legs; a female student might cite harassment if you are looking at her legs.Look for writing on clothing. Many students will wear hats to an exam and will write notes on the bill of the hat. Ask students to remove hats or turn them around so that you foil their attempts at reading their notes. Other articles of clothing are often used in cheating, such as scarves, sweaters, coats, sunglasses, and so on.
 Some students have used rubber bands to store notes. They will stretch out the rubber band and write notes so they are just barely legible. When the rubber band is unstretched, it will look like it has black lines on it. During an exam, the student will stretch and unstretch the rubber band to get the answers.Other students have been known to write notes on very small pieces of paper and store them rolled up in a pen with a clear body.
 A student may ask to leave the class to use the bathroom. This person might be using that time to check their phone for notes or otherwise look at notes. Before allowing a student to go to the bathroom, have him or her leave his phone in the testing room (make sure you see with your own eyes that it was left in the room).

