 Ask anyone you can to sign your yearbook, including people you don't normally interact with. Ask your friends and acquaintances to write goodbye messages in the margins of your book and do the same for them.


If you didn't buy a yearbook but still want signatures, bring around a notebook, picture collage, or old t-shirt and ask people to sign that instead.;
, If your school doesn't do yearbooks, other objects can be signed to remember the year. Bring in something you can write on and have everyone add their signature before the end of the day.

Sign a beach ball, basketball, or soccer ball.Another fun thing to do as a class is signed t-shirts. Pool your money and invest in some cheap white t-shirts. Bring in some fabric markers and have everyone sign one another's shirt.Check with your teacher to see if you can have people sign in class. If you can't, have people sign at lunch or recess.
 In elementary school, you might bring in a small toy like plastic sand pails and write your classmates' names on them. You can have people sign your pails. You can also try another type of toy, such as a teddy bear made from fabric you can write on. If you bring in toys for the class, everyone can leave with something that helps them remember the year., Document the final day of school with your friends and teachers. Ask them "How do you want to be remembered in one photo?" See what they come up with. You can also simply take candid or posed shots throughout the day.


Make sure you check school policy regarding pictures first, however. You don't want to get in trouble for taking pictures during class or times when cameras are forbidden.
 A memory book is a scrapbook you make that includes old photos, assignments, ribbons, and other memorabilia of high school. Include images of your teacher, you, and your classmates. If it's okay with your teacher, see if you can spend part of the last day assembling memory books with your peers.Bring in supplies, like small notebooks, coloring pencils and crayons, glue, and scissors to work on beautiful memory notebooks for the year.

