 To keep your legs covered but cool in hot weather, invest in a long linen skirt or pants. This lightweight, breathable material also reflects heat better than other fabrics, leaving the skin cool and dry. Opt for garments with a comfortable, loose fit to allow air to flow between the linen and your skin., To cover your legs in the heat and stay comfortably cool, opt for chambray pants to imitate your jeans. Chambray is a woven cotton textile that resembles denim despite its light, breathable texture. Dress the pants up with a blazer and a pair of loafers, or make them more casual with running shoes and a plain t-shirt., Cotton is an ideal choice of material for summer clothing as it absorbs wetness and perspiration from the skin and allows it to evaporate from the fabric’s surface. For an ideal fit, choose cotton pants or skirts that are loose enough to allow air to flow through and let your skin breathe. When purchasing cotton items, make sure that they don’t feel heavy, and hold them up to the light to see if they are a bit see-through (which is ideal).For instance, 100% cotton chinos are a great option for summer pants.
Hang dry your cotton clothing after washing it, as it is likely to shrink in the dryer.
 Rayon is man-made fabric that is lighter than cotton and perfect for dry heat. Rayon clothing is delicate, drapes well, and may imitate the texture and feel of cotton, linen, silk, or wool depending on the garment you buy. Look for rayon pants or long skirts in light colors that won’t absorb the sunlight. , If pantyhose are a part of your wardrobe that you wish to wear even on hotter days, adapt them to suit the weather. To make them more comfortable and less sweat-inducing, cut about half an inch off the top of your control-top or regular pantyhose, leaving enough elastic to hold them up. On especially hot days, try putting your pantyhose in the freezer for about five minutes to cool them before putting them on.Knee high pantyhose are also a good way to cover your legs while constricting them less than with full length pantyhose.

