 Let your hand touch his, you can let it "accidentally" touch. If he moves it out of the way quickly, then he may not be interested- watch his facial expression. On the other hand, if he slowly moves it, or doesn't withdraw at all, then he may be interested.
 When you are sitting on a sofa, lean towards him – a bit like in the movies when the guy trying to get the girl reaches his arm out across her shoulders. Don't turn your head toward him right away. If he moves away from you, this slims the chances of him being attracted to you. But if he either has a very slight or no reaction, or he repeats the gesture to you, then this increases the chances that he is interested and attracted.
 Well, not literally - you don't have to ask him to marry you. But at this stage, if he responds to "accidental" touches and obvious interest from you with a return of those gestures, you need to just come out and say the words. Say something like, "You know, I'm getting a vibe from you, and I wonder if I'm reading it right. Are we just friends, or is there something more there?" Give him a chance to think it over and answer - don't rush him. Maybe he isn't sure himself, or maybe this is his first experience. He may not be clear about how he feels. If you are still in doubt, you should then say you are attracted to him and make no bones about it. If he smiles or nods, that's a good sign.
 Once you've made your interest in him known, that will tell the tale. If he is interested and into you, he will be calling or dropping by very soon. If he isn't, he'll probably start avoiding you. If you're okay with just being friends, give him a little space and then make contact with him. When you do, don't flirt with him at all - show him that you may be interested, but you are okay with being just friends. If he's straight, there's nothing you can do about that, nor should you try. But if he's interested, give him a little time to think things over. Don't just write him off if he doesn't immediately call for a date. Keep contact up, and be patient.

