 Speaking assertively means saying something in a way that is active and direct. This is a more effective way to talk than speaking more passively, which is less likely to get someone to listen to you. If, for example, you are asking somebody to do something for you, a clear and assertive request may get better results than a more passive one.


An assertive request could be as simple as “will you pick up the kids today?”
A more passive version of this might be “after you’ve finished messing around with that, could you get the kids? If you’re not too busy of course.”Avoid adding tag questions to the end of your statements, such as “is that okay?” or “does that make sense?”Clear and direct communication can help you communicate more effectively in all kinds of relationships.;
, One helpful method for direct and effective communication it to use plenty of I-statements. Using I-statements helps you express how you feel to somebody, without explicitly implicating or accusing the other person of anything. It focuses on your feelings and experience, rather than the other person.For example, if you always end up buying the milk, address this with an I-statement.
Say, “when we run out of milk in the morning, I feel frustrated because I buy it every day.”
Avoid accusatory you-statements such as: “you never buy the milk!”, You have something important and interesting to say, but often explaining it less rather than more can be most effective way to articulate it. If you try to give a great amount of detail, or talk for too long, you run the risk of people losing interest and you losing their attention. Try to think of ways to summarise what you want to say before you say it.In order to be concise, you need to have a certain confidence about what you are talking about.
You will be able to explain something concisely when you have a strong understanding of it.
If you are asking a question, be polite but concise. For example, saying “will you please pass me that file?” is more direct than saying “excuse me, would you mind, if you’re not too busy, passing me that file?”
A more direct request conveys more force, but if you are impolite or too blunt, your request may be met with resistance., If you are prone to wild exaggerations, you shouldn’t be too surprised if people start to take you less seriously and don’t listen to what you say. Frequent and inappropriate use of words like “never” and “always” indicate that you might have a tendency to exaggeration. If your friend is sometimes late to meet you, don’t say “you’re always late, every time. It’s so annoying.


Try to stick to facts. If your friend was late twice in a row, say that “you’re late again, that’s twice in a row.”, Sometimes you will have to be prepared to be persistent and patient in order to get your point across. If you are talking to someone who is easily distracted, or not a great listener, persistence can really help. Repeating yourself over and over can be very frustrating, but is worth it if it’s the only way to be sure you are understood.


If you are arranging to meet someone, repeat the time and place until you are sure it’s got through.
“We’re meeting at the bar at 8pm, right?”
You can also use a technique called fogging to reflect what the other person has said, and then repeat your point.
For example, you might say “you said that originally we were meeting at 7, but there’s been a change of plan, and now I’ll meet you at the bar at 8.”, Long diversions are liable to prompt people to lose interest in what you are talking about, and could alienate your audience. It can be best to keep a conversation focussed on the immediate issue at hand, especially if this is a work meeting, or you are discussing something with a friend, partner or family member.If you change the subject or lose focus, the person you are talking to may interpret this as a lack of interest on your part.
Keeping to the topic at hand shows a level of respect for the people you are talking to.
For example, if you are talking about an issue at work, don’t suddenly change the subject to something unrelated.
If a colleague says something like “we have this problem with our supplier, and we need to figure out what to do,” respond directly and don’t say something like “yeah, ok. Actually I was just thinking about what holiday to take next year.”

