 The most direct way to invest in Chinese real estate is to actually buy property there.


Understand that you cannot purchase Chinese real estate unless you are a resident. If you want to go this route, you will need to move to China, to live and work for at least one year before you will be allowed to purchase real estate.Additionally, you will have to demonstrate that the residence is for personal use.Also be aware that since China is a communist country, land is owned by the state. This means that while you may “purchase” land, you do not actually own it. Rather, you have paid for the right to use the land.This also means that the state can buy you out of your property at any time, usually for less than you paid for it.Because so much money has been invested into real estate, at the moment, there is more housing than people to buy them (or at least who can afford them). This has created one of the biggest housing bubbles in history, so buying in China is a huge risk at the moment., For foreigners wanting to purchase real estate, it is recommended that you focus on bigger cities, which are likely to have better, more developed infrastructure, as well as a larger expatriate community. For example, Shanghai and Beijing., Certain areas of the city you are interested in are likely to be more developed than others. These areas will probably be more popular, and thus, more expensive. However, since you are living there, you will have the opportunity to learn about which parts of the city are up-and-coming and which to avoid. If you are willing to take a bit of risk, you can consider investing in real estate in an area that is not so popular at the moment, but which is also becoming more popular and trendy as time goes on.


In these up-and-coming areas, you will likely be able to purchase real estate much cheaper and live there for a time. If you are lucky, and the area really does become the new hot-spot, you will then be able to sell this real estate for much more than what you paid, especially if you continue to invest in the real estate’s improvement before selling.
 Once you have found a property you would like to purchase, there are several steps you will need to take. The first involves submitting an official offer in writing to the owner/developer. This letter should include a purchase price, payment schedule, and any conditions that must be met. If this offer is accepted, you will need to pay 1% of the purchase price up front.The legal representative of the property owner may conduct background checks on you at this point. If this is successful, then you will enter into an official sales contract, which (since you are a foreigner) will need to be notarized.Once this is complete, you will need to pay another 30% of the purchase price to the seller.Once all of this is complete, an application must be made to the government in order to transfer the deed and title from the seller to you, which will require that any pre-existing mortgage be paid off, and that the required taxes and fees are also paid.