 It takes a lot of equipment to plant a garden, but once you buy most of the supplies they will last through many gardening seasons. You'll find the best selection at a home and garden store or a nursery. Gather the following supplies:


Seeds or young plants. You can choose to either start your garden from seeds or buy young sprouted plants that already have a head start. Check the list of plants you intend to grow and buy as many seeds or young plants as you need for the different components of your garden.
Soil fertilizer and topsoil. Bone meal, blood meal, and other fertilizers help your plants grow healthy, and a layer of topsoil is useful to have in case you're planting something that needs extra protection.
Compost. You can mix compost into the soil to improve its moisture retention, buffer pH, and provide micro nutrients. You can buy compost or make your own.
Mulch. Many plants require a layer of mulch to protect them from inclement weather and extreme temperatures while they're in the early stages of growth. Mulch should be spread on top of the soil to help retain moisture and reduce weeds.
Soil tilling equipment. If you're planning to create a large garden, you might want to buy or rent a soil tiller, which is wheeled over the ground to break up the soil and make it into a soft plant bed. For smaller areas, a garden rake and hoe should be sufficient.
A shovel and spade. This equipment makes it much easier to dig the proper-sized holes for seeds or young sprouts.
A garden hose. Get a hose with a fixture that allows you to either lightly mist or fully spray plants, depending on what each one needs. Alternatively, if you are planting a large area, a sprinkler and even an automatic timer will save you time.
Fencing materials. If you're planting a vegetable garden, you may need to construct a fence around it to keep bunnies, squirrels, deer, and the neighborhood pets from taking ripe vegetables.
 Use the soil tiller or garden rake to break the soil in the area you mapped out for your garden. Work the soil to a depth of about 12 inches (30.5 cm), making sure it is loose and does not have large clumps. Remove rocks, roots, and other solid objects from the garden bed, then fertilize it and work in compost to prepare it for planting.


How your plants grow depends on the quality of the dirt. You can buy a soil testing kit to find out the amount of organic matter, the amount of nutrients, and the pH level of the soil. Use the results to determine how much fertilizer and other ingredients to add. Alternatively, you can take a soil sample to your county extension office and they will test the soil for free or a small fee.
Don't add more fertilizer than the directions tell you to. Extra fertilizer can be toxic to plants. Note that not all plants like very fertilized soil; some would actually benefit from poor soil, so remember to find out the soil preferences of the plants you choose.
If your soil test shows a pH level that is too acidic, add limestone to raise the pH. If your soil is alkaline, you can add cottonseed meal, sulfur, pine bark, compost, or pine needles to make it more acidic.

