 Make small purchases. By making only a few small charges on your card, you’ll be able to pay them all off at once and avoid financial burdens. You can also use your credit card to buy things online, make hotel and travel reservations, and make other purchases in which paying cash isn’t an option., To qualify for an unsecured credit card, you’ll need to build credit and prove that you’re financially responsible.Paying your charges off as soon as you can will help make you more trustworthy in the eyes of the lending agency.


Use a calendar app or automatic payment plan to ensure that your balance is paid each month. At the very least, pay off the minimum each month if you cannot pay the full amount.
Understand the liabilities of secured credit debt. If you have been using your home, a vehicle or any other asset as collateral for a credit card, getting behind on a credit card debt can mean that you actually lose those assets. Most individuals and families can't afford this kind of loss, so make sure you understand what's involved in your existing secured credit loan.
 Taking out a loan can build credit and make you more likely to be approved for an unsecured credit card. Purchasing a new or used car can be an efficient way to establish good credit, though any loan that requires regular payment is likely to boost your credit score (provided you make payments on time).Do not co-sign on a loan with someone who cannot be relied on. If you’re trying to build credit, nothing will hurt your credit more than signing with someone who is unable to back up their part of the loan repayment process. Ensure that bills are mailed to you when you cosign on a loan, so that you know when the person is making payments in a timely manner.
 Credit card companies might think that you do not earn enough to afford a credit card.If possible, get a second job, or ask for a raise or promotion at your current job. Look for things around your house that you can sell for extra cash on Craigslist or eBay. Funnel some of your income toward stocks and mutual funds to increase your income.
 If you’re constantly moving around and seem to live an unstable life, you’re likely to be seen by creditors as a risky investment. More than two or three changes of address or workplace per year are likely to give creditors pause before approving your unsecured line of credit.Try to find a good job and stick with it.

