 Just because you want to rebuild trust with someone doesn’t mean she wants to participate. You must respect a person’s boundaries. It doesn’t necessarily mean that you will never have the chance, just not at the present. Test the waters before you start any process that involves another person. It takes two willing participants.You can say things like, “I know this is a difficult thing to talk about, but I’d really like to ask you if you would be willing to let me earn back your trust. I understand if it is too soon, or if you don’t ever want to see that happen. I just want to know.”
Prepare yourself for a “yes” and a “no” because it could go either way.;
, Many people react to a breach in trust by emotionally shutting down and putting up their guard. If you are the one trying to earn the trust, you will need to be open to the emotions that come with it. It won’t be easy, but it is essential. Being vulnerable can be uncomfortable, but staying open to all the emotions will deepen your ability to manage life.You can tell her, “All I’m asking you to do is be open to the idea. I don’t expect your heart to be open and ready to deal with me right now. I just need a clarification that you might consider being open.”
If she says she is open to the idea, thank her for allowing you the opportunity to make things better.
 Apologies cannot occur too quick after the incident, or too delayed. She may not be ready to hear you say, “I’m sorry” because she may view it as insincere and designed to quickly sweep your actions under the rug. Assessing if she is ready to hear it. If you wait too long you may sense additional hostility or possibly a lot of silence. You don’t want to be perceived as unapologetic, and forgetting or avoiding making an apology will never win you points.


You are the one that has to earn her trust, not the other way around. You’re right. It isn’t an even playing field, but you can earn that balance back with effort and time.
Put your ego aside and work harder than you ever have. It will be worth it to repair the damage to the relationship with your friend, loved one, or work colleague.
If you are texting or e-mailing an apology remember that your tone may come across as one-dimensional. Use additional words surrounding the “I’m sorry” for example, “I wish you could hear my voice tell you I’m sorry. You would hear that I am so sad and upset that I’ve caused things to go the way that they have. I know saying sorry isn’t enough, but please know that I am truly sorry. I would really like to know if you will accept my apology.” Awaiting the response will be hard, but once you get it you will know what to do next.
 The process of forgiveness must work its way through both parties. You will need to forgive yourself for any wrongdoing, which will allow you to release any self-hatred or shame you might have. The person who felt the brunt of a betrayal will have a hard time forgiving the person who did her wrong. Focus on the notion that forgiveness is possible and is essential to earning back trust.


Allowing yourself to forgive someone might not happen without a severe struggle.
Forgiving yourself or someone else will allow resentment to dissolve. As was once said, “Resentment is like you drinking poison expecting the other person to die.” It is damaging to your body and soul the longer you hold on to it.Do not expect anyone to “forget” what happened even if the saying is, “Forgive and forget.” Everyone needs to remember what happens to avoid making the same mistakes.
 When two people or parties have been at odds, there is a lot of ice that has formed around the relationship and needs to be broken. Collectively, everyone involved must let go of their hesitation to approach the conflict. It is that feeling of, “Okay, now that we’re all here for the right reason, let’s work this out.” This feeling of relief is like an exhale that lets everyone take the next breath and move forward.
 There’s no reason to attempt to earn back respect if you’re not sure everyone is committed. Are you serious or not? Are you just afraid to lose the relationship with the person because you view her as a possession? Are you afraid of losing and you want to win? Or worse, are you addicted to questionable behaviors such as infidelity, stealing, or eating someone’s lunch out of the company refrigerator?


Ask yourself if you are ready for the journey.
If you are trying to earn someone’s trust back ask her, “Are we both agreeing to work toward rebuilding the trust that I have damaged?” Somehow by saying it out loud you both come to a place that feels like a new start.
 You need to be able to read the signs. If you feel like you have done your due diligence and the person is not cooperating, then it may be time to move on.


You may feel extremely desperate, and may even beg the person. If you feel like you’re hitting your head against the wall, it is usually a sign that a shift needs to happen. Step back and observe the situation. It may be time to walk away, so walk.
 There are certain key qualities that are the building blocks of trust: reliability, truth, ethical practices, being sincere, keeping promises, transparency of behaviors, and acting in support of the other person’s interests. Craft all your interactions with these in mind. Do nice things that show you care. You are being observed. So be deliberate in your actions, and point out when you have demonstrated the aforementioned qualities.Let the other person know that you are living up to expectations.


If the betrayal has to do with lying about where you went, then be truthful and tell the person where you are going. Check in with her via text or call her to let her know you are where you said you would be.
You have nothing to hide, unless you do have something to hide. If you do, then stop fooling yourself and the other person.
 When it comes to human behavior, changing it can be very time consuming. The degree of hurt that was inflicted by you or the other person, can affect the length of time it takes to see improvement. It varies from person to person. Wait it out because it will be worth it.


Patience is a virtue. And a virtue is behavior that demonstrates a high standard of integrity, honor, decency, morals and respectability.
If you feel frustration building inside you, take a moment before you react negatively and tell yourself, “It took me a lifetime to get me to this point; so making a change is going to take time.”
Participate in activities that require patience such as, painting, assembling puzzles, or making furniture. You will understand and experience the rewards for being patient.
 Humans have a tendency to look for patterns in visual objects and behavior.Essentially, when you are earning someone’s trust back, you are diligently creating a pattern for the other person to observe. If she sees a consistent pattern of behaviors that are in line with her needs and wants, then trust builds.


Demonstrate consistent behaviors by showing up on time, responding to texts and phone calls in a respectable and timely fashion, and making good on promises.
Avoid demonstrating a pattern of negative behavior. If those behaviors are not congruent with her needs and wants, a pattern of mistrust will build. For example, if you make promises or commitments and don’t follow through, it will deteriorate any progress you have made.
 Out of respect for everyone involved, don’t play dumb when it comes to taking responsibility for your behavior. During a time of scrutiny, and self-analysis, it is your time to shine and show the world that you are intelligent and in command of your behaviors. Things don’t “just happen.” They happen because you made choices that you might not be proud of, but you did participate. Being smart and learning from your mistakes is part of the human experience. You are human.


You might feel over-observed and reported upon as if you were part of a naturalistic observation experiment gone bad.You might feel under the microscope, but that’s how it’s going to be for a while until it improves.
You can find a smart and creative way to stick up for yourself and your values. For example if she says something that questions your character you can say, “I know you are upset and I know I have a lot to do with that; and I hope you know that I didn’t run away from this situation because that’s not who I am. I stayed and took responsibility and I’m trying to make things better.”

, It might get tiring or challenging in ways you never knew, but showing up and giving 100% of your attention to the cause will move everything in the right direction. People are impressed by those who pay attention to the details, are attentive, openly communicate and follow through on their intentions.If you and the person attend a party together, stay by her side. This will show her you want to be with her. If your friends approach and ask you to go with them tell them, “I will catch up with you later.”
If the person is having trouble with a project at home, go to her and see if you can help.
If she needs someone to go with her to visit someone in the hospital, or take her car in to be serviced, offer to go with her.
 You may feel like you’re putting the work in and things are going well. In the back of your mind you might wonder if everything will work out. This is normal and it shouldn't stop you from being optimistic about your relationship. It is realistic to entertain these doubts as long as you don’t let them drag you down.


If you are feeling down or uncertain tell yourself, “I’m going to focus on the positive. I’m going to do whatever I can to make this work out.”
If you feel yourself doubting the future, distract yourself with something positive. For example, find a picture that reminds you of the great time you have with the other person.
 Once you have been through the experience of earning someone’s trust back, you will understand what it takes. In the event someone in your life betrays you, you will have a new level of compassion and understanding. You are forever changed by your experience.


For example, a friend crashes your car and doesn’t pay for the damage. When he comes to you months later to apologize for the mistake, give him a second chance.
If someone asks for your forgiveness after making a mistake, consider accepting it. Communicate the conditions of you acceptance to ensure the person knows that he needs to earn back your trust.
 If you need help changing the behaviors that continue to get you in trouble, there are psychologists and psychiatrists available in your local area and can be located through the American Psychological Association and the American Psychiatric Association.
 If you or the other person tries to let something go and it continues to eat at either of you, then you likely need to process residual feelings. This may include talking with the person, reiterating your desires to rebuild trust, and assuring her that you will do what ever it takes to make things better.


It can be upsetting if someone tells you to, “just let it go” if you haven’t reached a level of resolve about the matter. Take a deep breath and say, “I’m working on letting it go, but I’m not there yet.”

, As time passes and progress if made, you may notice the other person holds the issue over your head. She brings up the betrayal in an argument or discussion. Perhaps she isn’t over the hurt and still has work to do to forgive you.


Calmly bring it up and say, “It sounds like you are not fully ready to forgive me. I think we both have worked really hard to get where we are. What else can I do to help you get to a point where you don’t have to bring this up? If more apologies will help, I’m ready to do that. If you think I don’t understand the depth of the hurt that I did to you, then help me out and tell me. I’ll do whatever it takes because when you bring it up it makes me believe that you’re still hurt, and I don’t want that.”
If you refuse to hold a grudge against her for her reactions, it will help you remain open for positive improvements.Remember, you would appreciate the same respect.
 Celebrating the smallest of improvements will breathe life back into the situation. Everyone benefits from recognition for a job well done. If she begrudges the idea, tell her you are celebrating because you both committed to work together through the journey and that alone deserves a celebration.
 Whether you have to sever ties for yourself, or if someone severs ties with you, there’s no reason why two parties should continue to betray each other. If you continually find yourself in the same cycle of betrayal-forgive-rebuild-betrayal, it is time to stop the madness.


Don’t waste your time or someone else’s. Life is short so surround yourself with people who bring you joy and satisfaction. Trickery and betrayal are not virtues anyone will admire. Accepting the truth can be the first step toward real change. It’s up to you to create the fulfilling life that you've always wanted. It is possible.
 Happiness is an inside job and you are responsible to create it. It is easier to face difficult situations if you are filled with good vibes. A happier you will always make any relationship better.


You know what makes you happy, so participate in activities that will build a reservoir of positive feelings. For example, if you love the way live music makes you feel then attend concerts at small clubs and large venues.
Listen to new music to expand your knowledge.
If you love being outdoors, join a hiking group in your local area. Communing with nature is restorative.

