 Soldering copper pipes isn't hard, but it is considerably more involved than soldering electronics, and requires different equipment. People typically engage in pipe soldering to seal joints between sections of pipe, such as elbow turns.
 Instead of a soldering iron, a propane torch is generally recommended for soldering copper pipes together. These are widely available at hardware stores.


Specialized soldering irons can be used for pipe soldering, but a propane torch is just as effective for most jobs, and much cheaper.
 Manufacturers offer specialized solder wire for soldering pipes. It tends to be much thicker, usually 1/8" in diameter. Pipe solders often contain an acid flux, however solid wire works as well. Solid wire solder may need a separate flux.


Absolutely avoid using leaded solder for soldering your pipes. Be sure to closely read the label to determine the alloy composition. Pipe solders tend to compose mostly tin and may also contain antimony, copper, and/or silver.
 To be sure your solder takes, it's helpful to clean the pipe beforehand by scouring it with an emery cloth, sandpaper, or fine steel wool.
 Turn off the water to your plumbing before you begin work. This will allow you to work with your pipes without fear of flooding or spraying the room.


Before you turn the water off, pour a bucket of water. Keep the bucket nearby in case your torch catches anything on fire.
 If you're installing new piping, use a tube cutter to cut any pipe up to an inch in diameter. Tube cutters are available at hardware stores.


Take it slowly. A tube cutter works best with slow, steady movement. Go too quickly and you might dent the pipe.
For larger pipe, you'll have to use a hacksaw. File off the ragged edges afterward.
Once the pipes are cut, fit them into whatever joints you'll need to solder tight.
 Using an emery cloth or similar abrasive item, thoroughly abrade the area of pipe where you'll be applying solder to smooth and clean it.


A smooth and clean surface will allow the solder to flow into the joint smoothly and seal it evenly.
 Fire up your propane torch and apply heat to the pipe you plan to solder.


Maintain even heat by moving the flame all around the work area.
Once the pipe is good and hot, apply the tip of your solder wire to the place you need to seal. It should melt right away.

Hold the solder on the opposite side of the pipe from your torch. It should flow around the joint and fill it up all the way around.


Let the joint cool. It will cool quickly. Move on to the next joint that needs sealing, if necessary.
 Once you're finished, wait a few minutes and then turn the water back on. Run water through the pipes you soldered and check for leaks. If there are any, you'll have to repeat the process.

