 Identify the situations in which you are most likely to talk to yourself or process aloud. Note how you feel: you may talk aloud when you are anxious, when you are trying to get something done, or just when you are working to understand a new idea.


Keep a self-talk journal in which you write down every moment you think aloud. Note whether you were alone or in public, what you were talking about, and how you felt before and after.;
, When you notice the urge to talk out loud welling up, take a deep breath. Breathe in from your nose and into your belly. This will help quell any urges and calm your anxieties about embarrassing yourself. Practice this whenever you have the urge to think out loud in embarrassing or inappropriate situations., Journaling is a useful habit that anyone can benefit from.It allows you to work through your thoughts in a way that is not embarrassing or disruptive to others. If you need to work through a problem or memorize something, consider writing those things down in a journal or in a notepad., If you struggle with blurting, find a time to sit down with a friend or family member and practice having a conversation. Pay close attention to what the other person is saying. At varying intervals during the conversation, stop and give a quick synopsis of what the other person said. This will help you focus your self-control and practice not blurting over the other person.If it is not too distracting, you might write down notes on what the other person is saying.
While you practice conversing, try using a stopwatch to place limits on how long you talk.
 Thinking out loud is a normal feature of healthy human cognitive function. However, if you are having a difficult time controlling the things that you say, you should seek the help of a mental health professional. This inability to control what you are saying may be a sign of a more complicated mental health problem.Blurting out and a general lack of impulse control can be a symptom of ADHD. If you impulsively speak what is on your mind, talk to your doctor or a mental health professional.
In extreme cases, it is important that you meet with a health professional in order to check for schizophrenia and other forms of psychosis.

