 Spend some time determining whether or not you are creating a new life out of necessity or desire. If this is a choice based out of need, then you’ll want to identify what life improvements you will need to make as well. If you are making a decision based out of want, then carefully consider what your ideal life looks like.


For example, if you are starting a new life because you need some space from negative family members, then you might include limiting contact with these persons as part of your plans.
Or, if you are starting a new life because you want a challenge and some excitement, then you might consider placing yourself in a unusual circumstance, such as living in a foreign country.;
, You may need to move to a new apartment or house in order to truly start over in the same city. Or, you may need to head out of the country entirely. Do as much research as you can online to determine the best way to use your limited funds. Look for locations where the cost of living is cheap and jobs are plentiful.Find locations with affordable living options by selecting cities and then searching online for rent and food expense estimates. For example, in the Cook Islands you can find an apartment to rent for $130 a month., Starting over can mean severing some personal ties, but it doesn’t always require breaking your bonds with your loved ones. Go through a list of all of your friends and family and determine what place they should have in your new life, if any at all. You’ll also want to consider how you will break the news to everyone that you’ve decided to start over, or if you will just stay silent about your choices.


For example, if you are trying to rebuild your finances and you have a relative who has a tendency to be a bad financial influence, then you will need to determine if you should continue to interact with them moving forward.
 Spend at least 15 minutes a day writing and thinking about your current situation and editing your goals. Try to create goals for a month, for one year out, for five years out, and for ten years out. Reassess your goals on a regular basis and change them if you need to. Make sure that your goals closely align with what type of life you’d like to lead in the future.For example, you might write, “I would like to have $500 saved by the end of the year.” This will help you to be more financially stable, so it will likely fit with your lifestyle choices, too,
Make sure to think both big and small when setting your goals. Don’t be afraid to push for a goal that seems a long-shot., Consider exactly what actions you’ll need to take for each goal and write them down as a sequence. As you decide to tackle that particular goal, look at this list as a reference. This will make larger goals seem more possible. This, in turn, will make you feel more in control of potentially difficult situations.For example, if you plan to save money, then you’ll probably need to start by monitoring your spending or perhaps opening a savings account.
 It can be easy to get bogged down in the unknown or the unusual when you are starting over. Instead, force yourself to use positive adjectives when describing what you are experiencing. Change from using “weird” to “exciting,” for example. If you feel yourself getting too anxious, tell yourself to open your eyes and find one thing positive about your new environment.For example, try to seek out the natural beauty of an area. Look for how the birds fly in the sky or how the sunlight comes through the trees. If you are stuck in an office all of the time, you can even print out these images and place them around you., Starting over takes time and a great deal of work. Don’t expect everything to be in order overnight. Instead, be gentle with yourself and acknowledge all of your victories, even the small ones. Tell yourself throughout the day, “You are doing good.” Give yourself compliments as often as possible.It is helpful to see your life as a book. This is just one chapter of many and does not necessarily tell you what the end will be. You are still writing it out.
You will also need to be watchful when you fail, so that you don’t let these moments set you too far off course. For example, if you make a poor spending choice with your limited funds, see if you can correct it as quickly as possible.