 The first step to getting over any addiction is admitting that you have one. Admit to yourself that you find validation in praise. Then recognize that this is problematic and that you will not find happiness this way.This may not be easy for you. You may not realize you are addicted to praise, or may not be ready to admit it. By facing your addiction, you can start to get over it.
 Instead of constantly seeking praise for what you’ve done, focus on the progress you make. Ignore whether you did a good or bad job. Instead, find satisfaction from making progress on your projects.This means setting goals for yourself. The goal is not to get praise or to do the best. The goal is completion of tasks. What do you want to accomplish?
For example, if you are trying to learn how to knit, instead of focusing on knitting a sweater everyone will love and praise you for, focus on completing a task. Finish the sweater and find satisfaction in completing it.
 One of the problems with being addicted to praise and positive reward systems is that people develop extrinsic motivation, meaning they only do things because they are getting rewarded. For a praise addict, this reward is more praise. Instead of worrying about the rewards, focus on why you doing a task. Find your motivation from within.For example, if you are a musician, you may only play to have others tell you how good you are. If you’ve never made it professionally and people don’t recognize your talent or praise you, you may give up. Instead of focusing on the extrinsic motivation, play music because it’s what you love. Find the motivation in yourself to keep playing. You probably didn’t start playing music to receive praise, so you should continue playing for enjoyment instead of the praise of others.
 One way to help your praise addiction is to trust yourself, your own abilities, and your own opinions. If someone criticizes you or gives you negative feedback, remember that he or she is not the expert or the person in the right. The criticizer is just one person with an opinion. You can value the criticizer's opinion and use it, or you can ignore it and trust yourself.


Even if you use the criticizer's opinion, use it because you trust yourself to make a reasonable decision about the validity of the other person’s opinion.