 Patent searching is a difficult process because it requires that you perform several keyword searches and databases house all patents dating back to 1790. If you are in the Washington, D.C. area, you can visit the USPTO Search Facilities located in Alexandria, VA.
 There are experts who know how to operate the patent system and efficiently find out whether or not your product is already patented.
 It will take you between 25 and 30 hours to complete a patent search in most cases.
 Write a list of all the words you can possibly think of to adequately explain what your product does, who it affects, what problem(s) it solves, etc. Having this list pre-written will help you decide what terms to search for in the online database. Don't be afraid to be too broad in your terms.
 Visit http://www.uspto.gov and select "Patent Classification" from the drop-down "Patents" tab on the left-hand side of the page.


Look under "Patent Classification Resources," and click on the link that says "Classification Index, Patents." You are now in the USPTO index.
Select the category that most closely describes the broad classification that your invention falls under.
There will be subcategories under the broader category which you will need to make a second selection from. Choose the category that most narrowly describes your invention. You may have to conduct several searches using different keywords that you brainstormed.
 Once you choose a subcategory, there will be two numbers located to the right of the subcategory name separated by a forward slash. The first number is the class, and the second is the subclass. Take note of both of these numbers.
 This will take you to the specific subclass number page of the Manual of Classification.
 To make sure that your browser is displaying all relevant subclasses, choose "Expand All Indent Levels" from the drop-down menu at the top of the page. Click on "Submit" and scroll back down to your subclass.


Note that you are looking for subclasses that are physically displayed close to your chosen subclass, not ones that are close in number to your subclass.
Some original subclasses have been divided into smaller subclasses over time and thus have been shifted around and out of order.
Understand that the dots to the left of the subclass titles are indicators of specificity. The more dots, the more specific a subclass will be. Dot numbers range from zero to seven.
 Doing so will take you to "Classification Definitions," where you can view more information about the subclass that you clicked on.


Choose "Show Definition View" to view more information about a particular subclass, and choose "Show Schedule View" to see a list of similar subclasses.
Revisit the definition of the broad class and make sure it still aligns with the definition of your invention.
 You will be taken to a list of all U.S. Patents in that classification code, which is most likely several thousand patents long. The most recent patents will appear at the top of the page.
 You can view a patent by clicking on the patent number located to the left of the patent title.


If issued after 1976, you can view the full text online. If issued before 1976, you will have to view the patent with a TIFF viewer.
Examine the drawings and claims sections of each patent to quickly pick out similarities or differences between your invention and another.
Write down the references that other patents cite to direct you to similar patents.
 Choose "Patent Process" from the drop-down "Patent" menu on the USPTO homepage and click on the link called "Search for Patents." Under "Searching Full Text Patents (Since 1976)", click on "Advanced Search" and type your keywords into the search box. Click on the patent number to view the full text.

