 Antiperspirants work by blocking your sweat glands for a time so they cannot produce sweat.Antiperspirants can be purchased over the counter in a number of strengths, including newer “clinical,” and so-called “prescription strength” formulations. These virtually all have the same active ingredient, aluminum chlorohydrate, but the amount present and the formula used will affect how well an antiperspirant works on a particular person, so you may need to experiment to find the one that works best for you. For best results, apply the antiperspirant at night on dry skin.
Even “all natural” antiperspirants contain aluminum, something to be aware of if you are trying to avoid aluminum exposure. However, the other ingredients in an all-natural formulation may be better for you, so that may still be a reason to consider them.
Deodorants, unlike antiperspirants, do not reduce sweating. Instead they contain ingredients to mask or prevent body odor associated with sweat. If you are trying to stop sweat, be sure to look for the word “antiperspirant” or “antiperspirant and deodorant.”;
, If normal antiperspirants won’t do the job, there are a number of other treatment options available for excessive underarm sweat that your doctor can authorize or administer.


Actual prescription-strength antiperspirants are one option.
There are also other therapies available to provide a long-term reduction in armpit sweat, including miraDry, a new technology that uses electromagnetic energy to destroy sweat glands.Botox shots applied to the armpits have also been shown to be effective. , Sometimes what we eat and drink can make us more prone to sweating. Spicy foods are one common culprit; caffeine, alcohol, and processed foods can also cause an increase in sweating.Taking too much of the vitamin niacin (or even a small amount in people who are sensitive to it,) can also cause excessive sweating.Drinking hot beverages also raises your internal body temperature and make you more prone to sweating.


Don’t avoid drinking water to prevent sweating! Your body needs water to function properly, and drinking more water can actually reduce sweating by helping to cool your body. It will also help ensure that when you do sweat, it won’t smell as bad., If you commonly break out in a sweat when you are anxious, a condition called “nervous sweating,” you can use the ideas outlined in this article to help manage the problem, but you might also consider talking to your doctor or a mental health care provider about the possibility that you have an anxiety disorder. In addition to treating the symptom of nervous sweating, there may be medical and/or behavioral treatment options to help you manage your anxiety in general., When armpit sweat is unavoidable, underarm shields are a great way to keep it hidden and protect your clothing. These are absorbent pads that you wear under your arms to absorb excess sweat and prevent clothing stains; many also offer some kind of odor control. Called alternately “dress shields,” “underarm shields,” “underarm pads,” “armpit guards,” etc., there are dozens of styles available. Some affix directly to your clothing or skin, while others are held in place with discreet straps. Both disposable and washable options are available.


Underarm shields are available at many online retailers. You can also find them frequently in men’s clothing stores, and the lingerie section of many women’s clothing retailers.
You can even make your own underarm shields at home!, Certain fabrics, namely silk, polyester, rayon, and nylon, don’t breathe well and are more likely to cause sweating.Better choices include cotton, linen, and even wool.
 If you know your armpits are going to sweat, dress in such a way that you can disguise it. Wear an undershirt under your clothing, or dress in layers to prevent sweat stains from becoming visible. For instance, a sweater vest worn over a shirt does an excellent job of hiding sweat stains. A hoodie or light jacket worn over a tank top or camisole can also help conceal armpit sweat.


Sweat stains are usually more visible on light-colored clothing, so avoid light colored blouses if you are prone to sweating.
 There are a number of “sweat-proof” undergarments for both men and women that use different methods for wicking sweat away, or preventing it from reaching the visible layers of your clothes.There are also an increasing number of sweat-resistant fabrics on the market that use technology to keep sweat from building up and causing embarrassing stains.Ask your local clothing retailer, or do an online search for “sweat-proof” or “sweat-resistant” clothing.

