



This service is a freemium one, and offers mostly estimated results, but for almost all websites.
For instance, for the website zillow.com of Zillow, you can get data at http://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/zillow.com.Similarly, for the website trello.com of Trello, you can get data at http://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/trello.com.Traffic for subdomains is included in traffic for the main domain, and if you enter a subdomain in the URL structure above, it redirects to the page for the main domain. For instance, http://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/ocw.mit.edu redirects to http://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/mit.edu.
For most websites, Alexa uses estimated data, rather than direct first-party measured data. You will see a box on the top right saying "This site's metrics are estimated" and, below that, "Is this your site? Certify your site's metrics." Some sites have certified their site metrics with Alexa, which means that Alexa uses direct first-party measurement for the site's traffic. However, this only means that Alexa measures the site's traffic correctly; the site's rank is still estimated since that relies on comparison with many other sites, most of which are estimated and not directly measured.
Paying users can access more data, including subdomain traffic.
If you want historical data, check for archives of the Alexa page on archive.is. If the website has a Wikipedia page with an infobox that includes the Alexa rank, you can check the history of the Wikipedia page to get historical Alexa rank data; however this is a tedious process.


The top of the page includes a "Global rank" and Rank in the country where the rank is highest. For websites in the top 100,000, historical data on global rank over the past year is also displayed. For others, there is space for the graph but it is not populated.
Other sections that show some information are: Audience Geography, engagement data, search traffic and keywords, upstream sites, linking sites, related sites, subdomains, load speed, site description, and audience demographics. The free version only shows the top five results for some of these categories; paying users can access longer lists.
Monthly Unique Visitor Metrics and sites people go to next are available to paying users.
Notably, there is no direct data on the number of visitors and pageviews available to non-paying users, even though the ranking is based on those metrics.


Alexa Internet shows a one-year history of the site rank, and moreover, does not show even this data for sites not in the top 100,000.
You can request archival of the existing profile using archive.is. Note that the archived page will not have the full functionality of the original page because of limitations in the way archival interacts with JavaScript.


Alexa's traffic estimates can be off from first-party measurements by a factor of three in either direction.
Since Alexa does not publicly release its traffic estimates, but only releases a rank, the rank should be treated as only a loose estimate.
Be particularly suspicious of Alexa giving a very good rank in a smaller country that has no direct connection with the subject matter at hand. This is usually due to Alexa's sample accidentally oversampling users in the country using the website.Given the inaccuracy of the rank estimates, the trend in rank as seen in the chart is also not necessarily accurate, although large fluctuations in rank usually contain some kernel of truth. As a general rule, you should believe such a trend only if it is consistent with other sources of evidence, or common sense about the annual traffic cycle. Some examples of correctly picked trends are annual cycles for charity evaluators such as GiveWelland the Effective Altruism Forum.The increase in traffic and improvement in rank is consistent with first-party data published for the sites,as well as with the general intuition that charity-related activity peaks around December/January (Giving Season).


The browser extension, also known as the Toolbar, is available for ChromeWith this extension, you will be able to, whenever you visit a website, view the SimilarWeb metrics from within your browser itself, without having to separately visit the Alexa Internet profile of the website. The extension does not give you access to any other information beyond what you can get from the profile -- it just makes the lookup process quicker.
In return, installing the extension means that you get included in the panel of users whose behavior is collected by Alexa Internet to estimate website traffic.

