 Abuse or lack of socialization can help to create an unfriendly dog. It helps to gather as much information as you can about what your dog experienced in the past. This will allow you to bond with the dog while working on their trouble areas, but avoiding obvious behavioral overt triggers.For example, if your dog was physically abused by their previous owner (who was a man) then (if you are a man) you may face an even steeper uphill battle in building trust. Remind yourself of this and be even more patient when initiating touch with your dog.
If your dog is only unfriendly around food, for instance, then you might want to leave it alone at these times. Try to make bonding inroads during other moments.
 Some dogs are unfriendly because they are suffering from sensory overload. To minimize this and lower everyone’s stress, make your home as soothing and relaxing as possible. Keep the TV turned down low. Avoid blasting the radio. Try not to yell if you need something. Ask other members of your household to help out with this goal.Part of this will also push your dog’s “re-set” button and signal that this is a new environment requiring new types of interactions, as compared to their previous one.
 Your dog will likely make mistakes and these will be tests of your bond and your friendship. You must react patiently and calmly when your dog has a mishap. Offer a gentle but firm “No” and then move on., While you are interacting in your home leave your dog alone for the most part (at least until they start to shed their unfriendliness). Expect your dog to approach you at random moments to ‘check you out’ by sniffing. It is best to stand still at these times and let your dog complete the inspection.For this to work you truly will need to stand still. Don't make a movement. Don't try to pet your dog. Don't reach out.
 It is hard to be positive if your dog resists touch, but you can still be a supportive presence in their lives. Instead of offering a hug directly to them you might hug one of their toys before setting it down in front of them. Don’t be afraid to use treats as well. Most dogs respond positively to small pieces of chicken or other tidbits.You can gently toss the treat to the floor or you can place it in your open palm for your dog to take.
 Exercise can sometimes loosen up an unfriendly dog but it can also stimulate aggression in some cases. So, use caution and stick to low-key options for the best results. Take your dog on a long walk or hike. Play Frisbee in your backyard. Just lay around and watch the sun set., Learning new things together can bond you to your dog. However, you must keep the stakes low and make any classes that you take a laidback event. Finding and enrolling in a local obedience class is one way to possibly change your dog’s outlook. A Certified Dog Trainer can often craft unique activities that will highlight your dog’s unique strengths while working on their weaknesses.To find a good obedience class you can check your veterinarian or you can call your local pet store. You can also look online by typing in your city's name and "obedience classes."

