 Begin brainstorming with your pencil on paper. It is good to imagine words and images, but the quickest results occur once you put those ideas out onto paper. Use a sketchbook or blank notebook, and start drawing several different ideas.


They key to designing something in the beginning is to give yourself plenty of options.
The best way to go about these sketches is to get as many out as you can.
Don’t worry as much about the quality of the logo. You will be spending plenty of time refining and expanding the designs you’re happy with., Consult with your bandmates to choose a handful of your favorite designs. Try to narrow your selection down to five or six logos. If it helps you, cut each design out and lay them out next to each other. Now create variations of each design. Modify the original design in some way, for example, try to make the logo more simple and stripped down. Try to keep a balanced weight for each design in regards to graphics, color, and size.Use one of the revisions to redraw the original design into a cleaner logo.
If the design has a mixture of words and images, try strip the design of one of these features.
The more ideas you throw out, the more likely your band will agree on one.
Keep every sketch and design, even if you aren't sold on one.
 Spend a while brainstorming with your bandmates and trusted friends about the designs. Take any feedback somebody has seriously. Have each member choose their favorite out of the whole series of designs. Isolate each design that was chosen as a favorite from the band.


Line up the chosen designs and have a vote if anybody likes somebody else’s choice more than theirs.
Hopefully some of your band members will discuss what they like or dislike about your designs. Ask them what works if they don’t bring it up.
 Once you’ve narrowed your designs to about 3 or 4, you should continue modifying and revising. With this round of revisions, you shouldn’t alter the design too much. Make subtle changes at this stage. For example, you could make a line thicker or skinnier. If one of the logos is in color, make it black and white.


Show your bandmates the newest revisions and gather their thoughts.
If everyone is still in disagreement, you’ll have to repeat the process and make more drastic changes to the designs.