 Painting your shoes is a great way to show off your individuality. This method will work great on canvas and fabric shoes, but it may also work on leather and other materials. Keep in mind, however, that paint sticks best to fabric as opposed to plastic, leather, and so forth. Here's a list of what you will need:Canvas or fabric shoes
Acrylic paint primer
Acrylic paint
Acrylic sealer
Paint brushes
Paint palette
Thin permanent marker
Painter's tape

, This will give you nice, crisp lines and make your work look neater., This will give you a blank canvas to work on. The primer will also help the paint stick to the fabric better. Do not apply the primer too thickly, however; you still want to feel the texture of the fabric.

If you are painting a delicate design with lots of open space, such as lace, scrolls, or vines, then skip the primer. Keep in mind, however, that you may need a few coats of paint if your shoes are a dark color to begin with.
You can buy paint primer in the painting section of an arts and crafts store.
 This will help you figure out where to paint, and prevent any mistakes. Try to sketch lightly so that the pencil marks don't show once you are done painting.

Try to keep your designs simple if this is your first time painting shoes.
 If you make a mistake, wait for the paint to dry first. Depending on how bad the mistake is, you can just paint over it, or you can fix it with paint primer. Allow the paint primer to dry before you paint over it.

If you want to add shading to your design, consider laying down the base color first, waiting for it to dry, then painting on the shadows/highlights.
 Most acrylic paints will dry in 20 minutes. Some may need up to two hours to dry., This help your work stand out even more. Try to use a super-fine tip so that your work will be neater and more professional-looking.
 This will help protect your work from getting smudged. It will also make it easier to clean., Do this while the acrylic sealer is still wet, so that you don't accidentally chip it off., Even though you sprayed with a sealer, it would be best to avoid getting them wet.

