 This is one of the easiest ways you can camouflage your gauged ears, though it might not be feasible if your hair is short or thin. You might want to talk with your barber/stylist to learn about hairstyles that can be arranged to block your gauges from view.Even if your hair keeps its shape relatively well, you might want to use hairspray, hair gel, or styling wax in your hair. This way your hair is less likely to be brushed out of the way and your gauges revealed.;
, This is an extreme technique that will only be possible if you have very large gauges. Use your hair to conceal the base of your ear where your gauges rest.


You can also wear a pair of thick-framed glasses, even non-prescription ones that have fake lenses, to help block your gauges from view where they rest over your ears.Very large gauges can be difficult to conceal, and questions may arise even if you do your best to hide them. Many state laws protect those with "deformities" from being discriminated against by employers, so if necessary, you may be able to cite this law., There are many kinds of head covering you might use to tuck your gauges out of sight. Bandannas and hats can be used to hide your gauges at less formal occasions. Women and long-haired men might be able to get away with wearing a stylish headband to keep your gauges out of sight., In a professional environment or conservative fields like banking, teaching, and office work to name a few, you might find you are not taken seriously if you interview with obvious gauges. To give ear gaugers a better chance of overcoming this kind of discrimination, many piercing and gauge manufacturers offer skin tone plug to make your gauges less noticeable.You'll have to experiment with different kinds of plugs before you find the one that works best for you. This is especially true for skin tone plugs bought online. A gauge that looks suitable online might be obvious once you put it in your ear.
You could always make your own flesh tone plugs. A pair of simple wooden plugs can be painted the same color as your skin tone to achieve the same effect as pre-made skin tone plugs., Some gauges have large studs that cover the outer part of your ear, like large diamond studs or studs with thick metal designs. These can effectively hide your gauges and make it look as though you only have a "socially acceptable" kind of earring.You may have to invest in several different varieties of this kind of gauge. In a workplace or less accepting environment, people might get suspicious if they see you wearing the same earring too frequently.
 The size difference of the hook or stud that is inserted into your ear in tapered jewelry will draw attention to your gauged ears. Even if you have a pair of beloved tapered ear accessories that you want to show off, when trying to hide your gauges, you should refrain from wearing these., Your ears, in some cases, will naturally heal from the stretching caused by your gauges if you remove your gauge jewelry, or can shrink if you decrease the size of your gauge.However, the amount of healing that your body is capable of will depend on individual factors and also the size of your gauge. By reducing your gauge little by little, you can see how much your body is capable of recovering without an unsightly hole in your earlobe cramping your style.


Allow your ear enough time to heal until your decreased size fits comfortably. Once it does, you can reduce your size even more to continue shrinking your gauges.
Especially if your gauges are a ½ inch (1.27 cm) in size, you stand a good chance of being able to close your ears naturally. Larger gauges may require surgery for you to restore your gauges to normal., By massaging your lobes once or twice a day, you'll encourage circulation in the stretched tissue. The increased blood flow there will help your gauges to heal.You might also consider using oils that promote healing. Some examples include:


Vitamin E
Neem oil
Jojoba oil
Extra virgin olive oil, After removing your gauges from your ears, you can apply special creams to reduce any scar tissue that has built up and to help repair damage that has been done by stretching your lobes. Some options you might consider include:


Hemorrhoid cream, which is intended to reduce swelling and inflammation while encouraging healing in your skin.Using this could promote the healing of your gauged ears.
Specialty earlobe creams, which are formulated to help heal your gauges. Some popular options that should be available at your local drug store include Ear Butter and Holey Butt'r.
 Even with flesh toned studs specifically designed to hide your gauges, you may find that some brands work very well for your ear type while others do not. The same is true for hairstyles and jewelry that hide your gauges. Try out each gauge-hiding technique before going into a situation where you really have to hide your gauges.


A mirror will be a great asset for evaluating how natural your gauge-hiding technique works. Try not to rely on a wall mirror only, as these often miss more dynamic angles. Use a wall mirror and a handheld mirror to view your disguised gauges from many different angles.
If you are using your hair to hide your gauges, try messing up your gauge hiding hairdo with your fingers. Note the point at which your gauges start becoming noticeable again. Knowing the limits of your hairdo will help you maintain it for the best possible coverage.
 Trusted friends and relatives will be able to see where your covering techniques or jewelry are insufficient, and may even be able to give you advice on how to hide your gauges better. Even if you're methodical with a mirror assessment, there's no replacement for another set of eyes.


For the best results, you may even want to recruit people of different heights. The difference in perspective might make you aware of a part of your gauge that's peeking through your hiding technique.
 It might take a while before you develop the awareness necessary to keep your gauges hidden. You'll also want to avoid any gesture that draws attention to your gauges, like tugging on your ears, tucking hair behind your ears, or playing with your earlobes.


Habits and absent-minded fidgeting can sometimes be difficult for you to identify on your own. You might want to recruit a friend to help you get a sense for the things you do that draw attention to your gauges.