 Doctors classify headaches into two basic types, primary and secondary. Chronic primary headaches are those that are recurrent but are not caused by an underlying disease.Either primary or secondary headaches may be chronic, though chronic headaches tend to be classified as primary.Primary headaches may be caused by exposure to very cold temperatures, sexual intercourse, or coughing excessively. The main types of primary headaches are tension headaches, migraines, and cluster headaches.;
, Chronic secondary headaches, unlike primary headaches, are caused by a medical condition. If you have a chronic secondary headache, your situation is more serious. The condition underlying your chronic headaches could be life threatening, so you should see a doctor as soon as possible.Conditions that may lead to secondary headaches include concussions, whiplash (or other injury to the neck, head, or back), stroke, seizures, AIDS, meningitis, high blood pressure, dehydration, or allergies. These conditions require a doctor’s diagnosis and medical treatment., The three main types of chronic headaches – all of which are primary headaches – all last for different lengths of time. One way to evaluate the severity of the chronic headache is to identify how long it lasts.Tension headaches tend to last less than 30 minutes. They occur as a response to stress or difficulty at school, work, or another social situation. They are the most common type of chronic headache.
Cluster headaches are a bit more severe. They typically last 30 to 60 minutes and occur regularly (in “clusters”) over a period of days, weeks, or months, then disappear.
Migraines are the most intense and severe headaches. They usually last between four and 24 hours, but they can occur continuously for up to three days., Each of the three major types of chronic headaches have side effects that differ in severity. The severity of the side effects generally corresponds to the duration of each major type of headache. In other words, shorter headaches tend to have fewer side effects. Use the extremity and the number of side effects most commonly associated with the three major types of chronic headaches to better evaluate their potential severity.The side effects of tension headaches tend to be mild or moderate. The only symptom is pain in and around the head, neck, and shoulders.
Cluster headaches have more severe side effects. You could potentially experience a stuffy or runny nose, forehead or facial sweating, watery or irritated eyes, and/or a droopy or swollen eyelid (ptosis or edema, respectively) in addition to a stabbing pain in the eye or temple.Migraine headaches tend to have the worst side effects. In addition to throbbing or pulsating pain, you could experience nausea or vomiting, sensitivity to light or sound (photophobia or phonophobia, respectively), or visual disturbances.
 Chronic headaches might affect the neck, left and right sides of the head, scalp, upper back, and/or shoulder muscles. The more areas of your neck, head, and/or body that are tense or in pain, the more severe the headache is., If you are trying to gauge the potential severity of someone else’s headache, engage them in conversation. Listening to what the person suffering from the headache has to say will help you better evaluate the severity of their headache. Ask questions like:What sort of side effects are you experiencing?
How would you rate your pain on a scale of one through ten?
When did your headache begin?
Where is the pain?
Do you have any other medical issues?
Are you taking medication?
Have you recently undergone surgery?

