 Call the studio or check out its website for details about the class level and any prerequisites.;
, Some yoga studios provide yoga mats and others expect you to bring your own.
 Yoga instructors generally recommend that you do not eat right before class due to the extensive twisting and bending involved in yoga practice. However, this is entirely up to you and will be based on knowledge of your own body and whether you are affected by eating prior to physical activity.
 This is especially important if you will be taking bikram yoga, which takes place in a heated room. In general, you'll want to avoid practicing yoga when dehydrated. Bring a water bottle and take sips from it during the class, if the instructor permits it.
 Yoga classes can cause you to sweat, which releases these scents into the air and can be problematic for other class participants who may be allergic to or distracted by these aromas.
 You might invest in yoga attire or simply wear comfortable athletic clothing. Avoid wearing overly baggy clothing, such as a t-shirt, because you might find yourself upside down with the t-shirt covering your face for extensive periods of time.


Wear layers in cold weather. To keep your muscles warm, you might start the yoga class wearing several layers and can remove them during class once your muscles are warm.
 Depending on the demands of the yoga class and how much you exert yourself, you may sweat a lot.
 Particularly in crowded yoga studios, arriving early is a good idea so that you can find an ideal spot in the room.
 If you do arrive late, enter quietly. Some yoga classes begin with chants or other meditative practices.


Turn off your cell phone. For many styles of yoga, instructors create a serene ambiance that requires a meditative silence throughout the entire class. Turn off your cell phone before entering the studio to preserve the serene environment.
 This is useful information for the instructor who may then suggest modifications for particular yoga poses and positions. It is also a courteous gesture so that a yoga instructor understands why you are not participating in some of the yoga poses.

