 Get to class five minutes early so you can find a seat near the front. Find a seat in one of the first three rows. By sitting in the front, you will be able to see and hear your teacher better. This way, you can pick up on your teacher’s verbal and visual cues that communicate which parts of the lecture material are the most important.Additionally, try sitting in the same seat every time. Sitting in the same seat may help trigger your memory on exam days.;
, Make sure to put away any distractions like phones, computers, iPads and other electronic devices. If you have to, put your phone on silent or turn it off. This way, you can give your teacher and the class material your full attention.Additionally, try to avoid sitting near people who do not pay attention during class since this can be distracting as well.
 Come up with a note-taking system that works for you. Make an outline, type your notes on a computer, draw diagrams, or record the lecture (if it is allowed). Also, don’t write down everything the teacher says. Instead, write down keywords, short sentences of the main ideas, and examples the teacher uses to explain difficult concepts.Additionally, write your notes in your own words by rephrasing what your teacher says when they pause. This will help you remember important concepts better on test day.
Abbreviate words so you can take faster notes, and try to use them consistently so you won’t get confused.
 Whenever you don’t understand a concept, or the teacher says something that is not clear, ask questions to clear up your confusion. Ask the teacher to use a different example or to explain the concept differently. You can also ask clarifying questions about your notes.For example, “Mr. Roberts, in my notes it says that a well-structured essay contains at least five components—an introduction, three supporting paragraphs and a conclusion. Is this correct, or am I missing anything important?”
If your teacher talks fast, don’t be afraid to ask them to slow down or repeat what they just said.

