 Whether you have brown, blue, green or gray eyes, it is essential that you choose the right colors for your eye-shadow. Being pale is like being a blank canvas: colors will show up much brighter on you because you have a lighter tone. Someone with very dark skin can easily pull off more vibrant makeup while a lighter skinned person can not. Instead of choosing a wild color, try a more muted tone. Neutrals, such as light browns and purples, can never do wrong.


Remember, less makeup is more for a light-skinned woman. Makeup tends to show up easier on someone with lighter skin, so just a little bit of light eye-shadow can look stunning.
Avoid bright blues, yellows, or bright browns, or your face will look drained of its natural color.;
, Brown and gray eyeliner looks stunning on the perpetually pale. Brown especially is a color that brings out the eyes but doesn't look as harsh as black, which can create too stark of a contrast between your pale skin and your makeup.Black eyeliner can, however, be beautiful on a pale person, but in moderation. Instead of circling your eye with the liner, try instead only lining the top or the outer corners. As a general rule of thumb for any skin tone, circling your entire eye in black liner can make your eyes look smaller. You can go for the Taylor Swift-esque cat eyes to make your eyes even bigger.
You can even use a makeup brush to smudge your eyeliner a bit, so it blends in with your skin a bit and creates less of a contrast.
 Dark mascara, or even black mascara, can make your eyes stand out the most if you have pale skin. Avoid light brown, plum, or blue mascara and go for the darkest black you can find. This can help those lashes, and the rest of your eyes, pop against your fair skin. You can also get thickening mascara to make the most of your lashes and to really make your eyes pop.

If you wear a lighter color of mascara, then your eyes won’t stand out as much.
 For any skin tone, a foundation that does not match your skin tone is never flattering. This is especially true with paler skin. Any color that is slightly askew from your natural tone will look off, if not like an orange disaster. Don't be ashamed to choose "porcelain" or "angel" shades. They look better than a darker shade and enhance your natural glow.


Don’t try to fake it. Trying to look darker by choosing a darker foundation makes you look a bit silly.
 Bronzer must be used sparingly if you want to use it at all. A little bit of very light bronzer below the cheekbones and under your chin makes your face look thinner. Too much and you risk looking like you have some dirt on your face. Blush on the cheek bones, nose and the tip of your chin enhances your cheeks and makes your nose and chin look sharp. A very light pink gets the job done nicely.


Whether you use bronzer or blush, just make sure that you blend it in smoothly.
 Cover up is a life saver when those bags under your eyes and pimples (which look a bit more pronounced on white skin) will not go away! Cover up can also cover any sun damage or pimples. Don't worry about covering your freckles, though. They look cute! Embrace them!


That said, if you really don’t have any blemishes or pimples to hide, then you can skip out on concealer.
 Wearing dark colors can make you look like a vampire. A sweet light pink, or even an apricot shade, looks great for either formal or casual occasions. Red lipstick is the one exception. Red lipstick looks best against pale skin and is great for important events — think of how stunning the paler-skinned Taylor Swift looks with bright red lipstick.You can also use some lip liner to accentuate your lips as well.
 If you have decided you don't like the hue of your skin, spray tanning can look very bad against very pale skin. The spray looks more orange than tan. It's always better to naturally tan. Naturally tanning has setbacks farther down the road that many don't consider. Extended time in the sun can lead to skin cancer (which shows up more often in fair skinned folks), leathery skin, wrinkles, more freckles and sun damage/sun spots.


If you must be darker or cannot physically tan, the best option would be a natural glow moisturizer, or any product that slowly darkens your skin naturally.
 Don't dye your hair the wrong color! Hair color can mean the difference between looking like a glowing goddess and looking sickly. Deep reds, chestnut and dark browns are dramatic and gorgeous colors for the light skinned. For a lighter look, honey blonde is very attractive. It's best to avoid light red hair, especially if you are prone to being pink-skinned. However, if you don’t want to dye your hair, don’t feel pressured to do it just because you want it to look great against your skin.


Very dark, or even black hair against pale skin can make for a very flattering and classic look.
 Wearing neutrals is currently a prominent style. Nude and ivory colored clothing is being torn off the rack. Unfortunately, wearing white and light pink can be very unflattering on someone who has white and/or pinkish skin. Instead, be bold with your color choices. Dare to wear blue, black, brown, and green. If you do like a neutral look, a light brown or tan is very flattering against porcelain skin. If you have very dark hair and light skin, wearing a lot of black can wash you out.


Be sure to add some color to your look. If you are a redhead, stay away from colors similar to your hair on the color wheel (i.e. red, pink, orange).
Instead, look for colors opposite of your hair, such as green, blue and purple. Pastels look gorgeous against light skin.
Beware of certain shades of yellow; they can make you look sick.
 If you have white skin, then you may be self-conscious about showing off those white legs. Pantyhose can help even out the tone of your legs while maintaining your gorgeous look. You can still pick a light-colored tone of pantyhose so that they look natural.


Of course, you should only wear them if the occasion is more formal and calls for it. You don’t want to stick out for being the only person wearing pantyhose.
 Make sure you take care of any body hair, especially if you have naturally dark body hair. Hair shows up very easily against light skin, so it's best to take care of hair regularly, especially if you have a bit of a unibrow or a mustache. You can consider waxing this hair, or you can just work on plucking your eyebrows or any stray hairs on your face or body.


If you have naturally blonde body hair, then you don’t need to worry as much. Blonde hair blends well with pale skin and doesn't need to be taken care of nearly as often.
 Everyone thinks tan is terrific, but pale is just as beautiful. Realizing that being different from the norm is the first step to embracing your unique beauty and gaining a healthy self-confidence! Being pale makes you look classic, timeless, and gorgeous. Instead of trying to look tan or to be something you’re not, just work on making the most of the beauty that you have to share with the world.


Be proud of your look and make the most of it. Don’t let people get you down about your pale skin and learn to love your unique and gorgeous look.

