 Ask yourself honestly how you feel about the prospect of going out. Do you feel excited and invigorated about getting out of the house? Do you feel anxious and a little exhausted with the idea? Tune in to your feelings and try to listen to them. If going out does not sound appealing, stay in., In some cases, alone time can increase productivity and boost mood. However, if you're spending time alone when you want to connect with others, being alone can have negative effects. You may end up feeling lonely, stressed, and unhappy.Think about whether you genuinely want to spend time alone.


Think about your interactions with people lately. Have you been craving human connection? Have interactions been sparse or negative? If you're craving interactions with others, spending time alone could make you unhappy. It may be best to go out and see others.
However, if you've been spending a lot of time with people lately, you may benefit from a night alone. If you're not strongly craving companionship, going out may just stress you out more. In this case, you may want to stay in and do something on your own, like reading a book or watching a movie.
 If you've had a long week, you may be feeling tired. If you're already exhausted, you may not last long at an outing. If you're just going to end up turning in early, going out may not be worth it. However, if you're relatively energetic, you may enjoy spending an evening outside of your home.For example, if you've been working overtime you may not have the energy to get dressed and go out. If it's a been a normal week, however, it may not take too much motivation to throw on some clothes and head out the door.
 Going out can be a wonderful opportunity to make new friends. Meeting people is one of the major draws of leaving your apartment. Think about whether you're in the mood to mingle.Have you been stuck in a rut lately in regards to your social circle? If you've been craving new friends and new experiences, try going out and chatting with new people.
However, you may not be looking to make new friends right now. You may also simply not be in a very social mood. If you're not feeling social, you're unlikely to interact with new people even if you want to. In this case, it may be best to stay in for the night.
 Going out requires getting dressed. Depending on the type of event, you may have to spend a lot of time getting ready. A formal event, for example, may require you to dress up. Think about what it will take to get ready and whether you feel like putting in that effort.You may be inclined to stay in if an event is very formal and you're not in the mood to dress up. If you don't feel like doing your hair and makeup and putting on your best clothes, stay in. However, if you're feeling in a dressy mood, you may relish the excuse to dress up.
If an event is more casual, it may be easier to motivate yourself to throw on jeans and a t-shirt. However, if you prefer to stay in your pajamas for the night, it's okay to stay in even for a casual event.

