 A great way to revitalize leftover poultry is to cook it up as part of a casserole with fragrant wild rice and vegetables. One of the great things about cooking a rice-based casserole is that you have the option of cooking the rice in the oven, alongside the other ingredients, or you can use pre-cooked rice in the casserole if you've got it on hand. This option is available for any rice-dish you make in the oven.Sauté two strips of chopped bacon in a skillet over medium heat. Add half a white onion, chopped, and a few cloves of minced garlic, to your taste. When the onion is translucent, stir in two chopped carrots (about a cup), a stalk of chopped celery, and about a pound of turkey breast, cut into bite-sized chunks. Brown the turkey, cooking about 2 or 3 minutes.

In your casserole dish, add a cup of wild rice, or whatever kind of rice you like, with 2 1/2 cups of water, a can of condensed cream of mushroom soup, and a sprinkling of a half-teaspoon each of marjoram, thyme, and rosemary. Add a teaspoon of salt and pepper to taste, then mix in the chicken mixture and stir thoroughly. Bake covered at 375 for about 30 minutes. Remove when the rice is cooked and the liquid has mostly evaporated.

Additions or substitutions might include chicken or other poultry for turkey, and the addition of frozen peas, water chestnuts, pimento, fresh chopped mushrooms, green beans, or asparagus. Add whatever you like, and remove what you don't. Cream of chicken soup would also be perfectly effective to use as a thickener, or you could leave out the soup altogether and use a cup of cream or milk.
 Most commonly associated with Indian cuisine, biryani is actually a Persian dish, originally. While not traditionally prepared as a casserole, mixing curried chicken and cooked basmati rice in a casserole dish can be a nice change of pace from the cream of mushroom tradition. It smells delicious and tastes even better.To make the rice, fry half a small white or yellow onion in butter (or clarified butter, called ghee) with a bay leaf, two cracked cardamom pods, and a tsp. of whole cloves (5-10 cloves). Add three cups of basmati rice and stir in the spicy butter until it becomes translucent, then add about 6 cups of water and cook over low heat, covered, for about 40 minutes, or until all the water is absorbed. Remove from the heat and set the rice aside. If you don't have the whole spices, substitute two tsp. of powdered spice.

To marinade the chicken, marinade 6 or 7 chicken drumsticks and thighs in a mixture of coconut milk (about a quarter cup) with chopped cilantro and mint (about a half-cup of each), a tablespoon of dried cumin, a tablespoon of dried coriander, and half a bulb of chopped garlic. Make little slits in the chicken, then rub with the marinade and let sit in the refrigerator overnight.

To make the curry, fry a whole chopped white onion in butter or ghee and add 5 cloves of minced garlic and a two-inch piece of ginger, chopped. Add 5-7 whole cloves, a cinnamon stick, a tsp. of turmeric, a tablespoon of dried cumin, tablespoon of dried coriander powder, and a tsp. of gram masala. Stir the onion and dried spices together for about a minute so it doesn't burn, then add a cup of coconut milk, two cups of water, and stir everything together thoroughly to mix. When it boils, add the chicken, then cover and cook over medium-low heat for 30 minutes until the chicken is cooked through.

To assemble, line the bottom of the casserole dish with half the rice, then top with the chicken and curry sauce. Add the rest of the rice on top, cover with foil, and bake at 350 F for about 40 minutes. Check about halfway through the cooking time to make sure the rice isn't drying out.

