 Apart from apologies and repairing relationships, set yourself up as a model employee to help you rebuild your work reputation. Be a go-getter. Arrive early and ready to impress. People will eventually start to notice.Getting to work early will make a good impression on your boss and perhaps your coworkers. Often, people aren’t around to see who leaves the office last. But they will notice your presence in the morning.
Being early also means you don’t have to rush around. Use the quiet time to your advantage and plan out your day.
It doesn’t hurt to take a short walk around the office first thing in the morning. People will see you and take note.
 Some people have trouble keeping track of what they need to do during a given day or week. Take initiative and prioritize your work. Keep your nose to the grindstone to avoid returning to past mistakes and to present yourself as great employee.For instance, sit down and write out what you need to do for each day or, longer term, each week and month. If you’ve been coming to work early, use that time to set out daily priorities.
Having a to-do list will help you focus your energy. You might also tailor the list to take advantage of your peak work hours. For instance, if you do your best work in the morning, save that time for your top priorities.
Try to stick to the list. That said, be flexible in case your boss gives you special instructions.
 Writing down your tasks isn’t all, of course. You actually need to follow through and do them well. Good work and dependability can make a past mistake fade over time. Build up a track record for reliability and your colleagues and boss will have more trust in you in the future.


Meet your deadlines. What about that report that’s due next week? Prioritize it in your list on Monday. If you still can’t get it done during the week, consider finishing it at home or over the weekend rather than asking for more time.
Be productive, especially if you have had consistency problems before. Take a short breather to stretch or use the restroom, but don’t try to skirt work.
 Handing in finished work on time is good. To be a model employee, though, you will have to aim even higher and win (or win back) your boss’ trust. Track details, anticipate tasks, and work ahead to further develop a good reputation.


If a colleague asks you to think of venues for an upcoming tradeshow, for example, don’t just stop at a list. Take the next steps: call them, ask about availability, and compare prices.When you take initiative like this, you’ll seem smart and like the logical go-to person for key projects.

