 If you are a skilled worker, you should begin looking for employment sponsorship 3 to 6 months in advance of your trip to Australia. There are a few different ways that you can find sponsored employment.


Contact a recruiter in Australia to get help with finding a position. You can find recruiters through Internet searches, and you may be required to pay for their services. This is a good idea if you have a highly specialized profession that is listed on the SOL.
Register for a free "work in Australia" online job board. These sites, such as jobs4travellers.com.au and liveinaustralia.com/home/employment_in_australia.asp ask you to sign in and allow you to look for job boards.
 If you are a professional working in 1 of the listed fields, you are much more likely to get a sponsored or independent work visa. Medical, engineering and computer professions are some of the most common items listed on this document.


Visit www.immi.gov.au/skilled/_pdf/sol-schedule1.pdf to read the most up to date SOL.
Do research on international companies that have bases in Australia. Applying for work in 1 of these companies may allow you to go through training in Australia or work in an Australian office.
Search for applicable jobs in large Australian companies. Very large companies are more likely to hire international employees because they can afford the visa costs. Keep in contact with all of these companies and search often for new jobs.
 There are several types of business visas, usually available to people who are entrepreneurs or investors and seek to enhance the Australia economy. You can also seek a visa to train or conduct business for a short period of time.


If you are planning a business visit, you will need to apply for an ETA or eVisitor visitor visa before being granted a subclass 956, 977 of 651 visa. Visit www.immi.gov.au/skilled/business/business-visit-visa-options.htm to find out how to apply.
You will need to apply for a short stay business visa if you are not eligible for an ETA or eVisitor via. Visit the link above to apply for a subclass 456 visa.
 The Australian government seeks out individuals with specialized skills, such as those listed on the SOL. Travel to 1 of these events to look for employment. You may need to travel to England or another country to attend this recruitment fair.


Visit www.immi.gov.au/skillevents/upcoming-events.htm to view a list of these events.
 This visa is only available to people under 50 with English proficiency who are able to prove that they offer a skill that is in demand in Australia. People in the medical field are especially sought for this type of visa, which can take up to 18 months to receive.

