 Open a new browser tab or window, and go to “music.google.com.” Enter your Gmail login details (username and password) into the fields provided, and click “Sign in” to proceed.;
, You’ll find this option towards the bottom of the menu on the left side of the screen.
 The installer for Music Manager will begin to download on your computer. Wait for it to finish.


If you are using Google Chrome and have the Google Play Music extension installed, you won’t see this option. Instead, you'll simply drag and drop music into the “Upload music” window or specify which folders you want to upload. If you'd rather use the Music Manager, open the page in a different browser.
 Once the download is finished, locate the installer in your computer’s default Download folder. Double-click it to open the installer window, and Music Manager will begin downloading more content for it to completely install.


It takes some time to download Music Manager, depending on the speed of your network connection. You will see the status of the download on the installer window.
 Once the installation has been completed, a message will appear saying, “Thank you for installing Music Manager.” Close the window by clicking “Close.”

, After closing the installer window, Music Manager will automatically open. Enter your Gmail login details in the fields displayed on the app’s welcome screen, and click “Sign in.”

, Once you have successfully signed in, you will be asked, “What would you like to do?” Select the option “Upload songs to Google Play,” and click “Next.”

, A new screen will appear asking you to choose the location where you keep your music files. You can select from “iTunes, “Windows Media Player,” “My Music Folder,” and “Other Folders.”


Click on the location, and Music Manager will detect the number of music files in the location. Once done, you will receive a message that “X number of songs found in <location>.”

, Click “Next” and you will be asked if you want to automatically upload songs that are added that particular location later on. Click “Yes” if you want Music Manager to keep your folders up to date.
 A window will appear providing instructions on how to easily access the Music Manager; just click “Next” on this window. Music Manager will then begin preparing your music files and upload them. You can see the status of the upload in terms of percentage on the window.Once all the music files has been uploaded, you will receive a notification that “Your music has been added.”

, The Music Manager is the orange headphone icon. Right-clicking it will open a context menu.


You can upload up to 50,000 songs for free to Google Music. These will not count against your Drive storage space. If you have Google Play All Access and a song matches a song available on Google Play Music, it will not count against your 50,000 songs., Another menu will open displaying options to “Upload,” “Download,” Advanced,” and so on.
 The music folder you selected the first time will open.
 Click “Add folder” and a file explorer will open. Use it to navigate your computer and find the folder you want to upload music files from. Click “OK” when you’re done.
 To do this, just check the “Automatically upload songs added to the selected folders.”

, Click “Apply” at the bottom right corner of the screen to begin upload your songs. You will see the upload progress bar on the left side of the Music Manager, and once you’re done, you will receive a notification.


Uploading a lot of songs may take a while, and may slow down your other connections. Try setting your music to upload overnight if you need to use your internet for other things.

