 Consider the needs, personality, and temperament of particular breeds to see what would work best for you and your family. Be sure to research which breed of cat would work best for your lifestyle to ensure that you will give the cat a happy home. Some breeds are high-energy and need a lot of exercise, while some long-haired cats require daily grooming. Ask other pet owners for their input or chat with a veterinarian, a local groomer, or a pet store employee for recommendations.Visit online forums where owners of specific breeds share information and experiences., Purebred cats often come with a pedigree and certification that they belong to a certain family.Selecting a purebred cat will ensure that your cat will most likely have a predictable personality and energy level. Although each cat may not conform to the breed standards, responsibly bred cats typically won’t deviate far from their expected traits.If you would like a vocal cat, for example, opt for a Siamese or Siberian cat.
If having an affectionate cat is important to you, research breeds like the Persian, the Chartreux, or the Birman. These cats typically have affectionate personalities., In addition to having predictable personalities, purebred cats usually have a standard appearance. If you would like for your cat to have a certain look, consider researching the appearance of particular breeds to find a cat that is right for you. They usually have a specific coat length, pattern, and color.However, it is important to remember that not all purebred cats will conform to the expected appearance.If you prefer short-haired cats over long-haired cats, for example, a purebred Abyssinian or a Devon rex will most likely have short hair and may be a great option for you.Cats like the Egyptian mau and the ocicat typically have spotted fur.Consider getting one of these breeds if you wish to have a cat with an interesting coat.
 Buying a purebred cat can be costly, and the prices vary depending on the breed, its coat quality, and its color. A purebred cat from a reputable breeder can cost between $300 and $1,200. If you wish to purchase a breeding-quality kitten, that could cost between $500 and $1000.If you adopt a purebred cat from a rescue shelter, the adoption fee can range between $100 and $300., Purebred cats are more likely than mixed breeds to develop certain health problems and may be more likely to have certain behavioral issues.If you are thinking of adopting or buying a purebred cat, consider what problems it may face in the future. Be sure to ask a breeder or an employee at a rescue shelter if there are specific health problems associated with the breed you are interested in.


Turkish vans or Maine coons, for example, may be more likely to develop heart disease than a mixed-breed cat.