 Weight refers to the thickness of the yarn, the number of threads (plies) that make up the strand, the weight per meter, and the number of wraps per inch. Yarn weights have been standardized by the Craft Yarn Council.


0 (lace) is called laceweight in the United States.
1 (superfine) is also called fingering weight.
2 (fine) is also called sport weight.
3 (light) is also called DK weight, which stands for double knitting.
4 (medium) includes worsted weight and Aran weight, which is slightly bulkier.
5 (bulky)
6 (super bulky);
, Check the label to learn the care instructions and find out whether the yarn is washable or must be dry-cleaned.


Wool yarn includes lamb, Merino, virgin, Shetland and Icelandic varieties. It's a popular material for crocheters and other crafters. If possible, buy washable wool, which has been treated so it can be cleaned with water.
Fleece yarn includes mohair and cashmere from goats, and angora from rabbits.
Silk, cotton, linen and rayon yarns are smooth and shiny.
Synthetic yarns are made of nylon, acrylic and polyester. These are easy to use and care for.
Plant-based yarns can be made from soy, bamboo or corn.
Novelty yarns can be difficult to work with, especially for novice crocheters. They include ribbon, boucle (textured), chenille, thick-thin and faux fur.
 Most stores will buy back skeins you don't use. The project instructions will either tell you how much you need by weight or recommend a specific number of skeins of a certain brand.
 Buy the same lot number for all yarn of the same brand and color. You may not be able to tell the difference between lots in the store, but they will be very obviously different in the finished item.
, If buying a set, make sure it includes a wallet to keep all the hooks together and organized by size.


Steel hooks are small and sized from 00 to 14. They are used for working with crochet thread and very small yarns. If you don't want to do small projects, skip buying these hooks. Many crocheters find working with small hooks and yarns causes hand cramps and eyestrain.
Aluminum or plastic hooks are sized D through S and are made for working with larger yarns. Aluminum hooks are more comfortable for most crocheters because of their weight. For hooks larger than K, consider plastic instead.
The method for sizing hooks can be different in different countries. Consult a conversion chart if the project instructions calls for hooks measured in millimeters or using numeric sizes.

