 Because we’re bombarded with images of what beauty is “supposed” to mean every day, it can be easy to accept those stereotypical definitions as true. Remember that these definitions are narrow, artificial, and exclusionary: all too often, “beautiful” means tall, white, thin, and young.You don’t have to accept anyone else’s standards. Learning to recognize how artificial and unrealistic these external standards are can help you recognize that you are beautiful no matter what anyone else says.


The beauty standards promoted by the media we consume have very real effects on us. Studies have shown that exposure to unrealistic depictions of bodies lead to increased depressive symptoms and dissatisfaction with one’s appearance.Do an internet search for “magazine Photoshop failures” or “model airbrushing” to see just how many of these beauty ideals are entirely manufactured. Even supermodels cannot conform to these beauty standards without alteration., Journaling can help you identify unhelpful patterns of thinking. Remember that stress and anxiety can affect how you see and experience yourself, so you may experience more negative thoughts when you’re Write down when you struggle with negative thoughts or feelings about your appearance. Be as specific as possible. Here are some questions to help you:What was the thought or feeling you had?
What were you doing or focused on when you had this thought or feeling?
What happened just before and just after this thought or feeling?
Why do you think you had this thought or feeling?
How do you think you can respond to this thought or feeling differently in the future?

, Gratitude is more than a feeling, it is a habit. Research has shown that people who routinely practice gratitude in their daily lives are happier and more optimistic than people who don’t. Focus on the positive things in your life to help build your confidence.


Acknowledge and reflect on positive moments. It’s easy for your brain to ignore positive information because it’s always hunting for the negative stuff. The next time a friend gives you a compliment or you find yourself feeling great about yourself, take a moment to stop and savor that experience.Focus on how you feel when you notice these positive moments. What senses are you using? How does your body feel? What are you thinking? Reflecting on these aspects can help you remember the positive moment more strongly later., It’s all too common for people to feel insecure, even ashamed, of their bodies. You may find yourself dressing a certain way to hide areas that embarrass you, or because you feel you do not “deserve” to dress a certain way. You may be tempted to wait until you have your “ideal” body before you buy attractive clothes. These actions will damage your self-confidence. Buy clothes that fit your body, just as it is. Wear clothes that make you feel beautiful, regardless of what any external standard says.Research has shown that what you wear can impact your confidence. For example, one study found that people who wore a lab coat while performing a simple scientific task were more confident and had better results than those who didn’t wear a coat -- even though it was the exact same task!If you feel attractive and confident in your clothes, others will pick up on that too.
How you dress impacts how you feel about yourself. For example, actors often say that their costumes help them discover their characters. Dress for the “character” you want to be.Find clothes that fit your body properly. Studies have demonstrated that when people wear clothes that fit well, others were more likely to see them as attractive.Wear what makes you happy. If you love doing up your makeup, go for it! If you feel happiest when you’re wearing your comfy sweatpants, do it!

, Your body does not have to conform to anyone else’s standards. Consider your motivation for how you eat and take care of yourself. Try to avoid doing things because you feel you “ought to” to meet society’s standards. Eating well, exercising, and developing good habits can help you feel beautiful by reminding you that you are honoring yourself because you are worth caring for.Exercise. Exercising releases natural mood-boosting chemicals called endorphins.Regular moderate exercise -- whether it’s running, swimming, or even gardening -- can also make you feel more energetic and positive.Just don’t approach it with the idea of “fixing” yourself, or you could actually cause yourself more mental hurt than good.Remind yourself that you are taking care of your health because you love yourself.
Eat well. How you eat can actually affect your mood.Make sure to incorporate plenty of fresh vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and lean proteins into your diet. If you notice that you don’t feel good about yourself after eating something, consider why. You may want to avoid that food, or you may want to teach yourself new ways of responding to it.And remember: everything in moderation, including moderation. If you’re really craving a slice of peach pie, it’s okay to treat yourself.
Pamper yourself. Take a hot bath, go for a manicure, get a massage. Appreciate that you are worth treating well.Get enough sleep. When you don’t sleep well, you can end up experiencing symptoms including anxiety, depression, obesity, and irritability.Make sure to take time to get the sleep your body needs.

