 Your sacrum is the bony area at the base of your spine, between your hipbones and the base of your bum. You can activate the acupressure points on your sacrum by lying down on your back and using your hands.Lie on your back and slide your hands, one on top of the other, underneath the base of your spine. Breath in deeply for two minutes as you apply steady, firm pressure on your sacrum. This can help to relax your uterus and relieve menstrual cramps.
You can also use tennis balls or small hollow balls instead of your fists. This can lead to an intense pressure so move slowly and remove the balls if you feel any discomfort or pain.To make this position feel more comfortable, you can also place a pillow under your head and bend your knees so your feet are relaxed and flat on the ground. You can let your knees fall together and relax as you activate the pressure points on your sacrum., This pair of pressure points can be found one to two finger width away from your sacrum, midway between your hipbones and your bum. Use your fingers to stimulate these points to relieve menstrual cramp pain and lower back pain.Alternatively, you can use tennis balls or small hollow balls instead of your fists. This can lead to an intense pressure so move slowly and remove the balls if you feel any discomfort or pain., This pressure point is located on your leg. Doing acupressure on your legs can help to improve blood flow to the lower part of your body, reducing any bloating you may be feeling due to PMS.The “three yin crossing” is located on the inner side of your leg, three finger width above your ankle bone. You can stimulate this point with your thumb and fingers to relieve bloating, water retention, and abdominal cramps.
Do not stimulate this point if you are in your last trimester of pregnancy, or within the 8th and 9th months of pregnancy.
 These pressure point can help relieve your abdominal cramps, even though it is located in your foot! The “grandfather grandson” point is located in the arch of the inside of your foot, a thumb’s width from the ball of your foot. Use your fingers to apply light pressure to this point. Make sure you are pressing just to the side of the your shin bone, not directly on your shin bone.