 If the girl you like confronts you directly, hiding your feelings from her can seem impossible. Stay cool and react in a realistic way. Acting startled or surprised might give away the fact that you’re hiding something. Do not reply in a nervous manner.


There are many forms direct questions can take, but if she asks “Do you have a crush on me?” or “Do you have feelings for me?”, you might respond, “No, why do you ask?” or “Certainly not, whatever gave you that idea?”
If you don’t feel comfortable lying, rely in an ambiguous way. For instance, using the above example, you might simply reply “What makes you think that?” or “Why do you ask?” without including the explicit denial.Lying might not be the best option. She might be asking you about your feelings because she has feelings for you too.;
, There are certain unconscious cues indicating attraction conveyed by body language. For example, frequent, seemingly unnecessary grooming (touching your hair or smoothing your clothes),facing your body towards her, and thrusting your chest out and your shoulders back all provide indications that you’re attracted to someone in your presence and yearning for them to notice and touch you. Most of these can be stopped once you are aware of and looking for them in your own behavior.


Keep in mind that these cues are effectively invisible unless someone is consciously looking for them. You have no need to worry that you're sending out "messages" of attraction.
 If the girl you like believes you have a girlfriend already, or are interested in someone else, she’ll be unaware that you have feelings for her. By showing or expressing affection for another girl, you’ll effectively hide your feelings for her. Mention to a friend in an offhand way that you think another girl is cute when you’re within earshot of the girl you have feelings for. This will lead her into thinking you’re not interested in her.


Do not date another person just to mislead the girl you like. This third party could have their feelings hurt., Stay quiet around the girl you have a crush on. If you do talk, make sure your words are thoughtful and carefully considered. Talking too much, or too nervously, will tip her off that something in your attitude is amiss.


If the conversation veers toward romantic topics, or topics which might induce awkward feelings for you, try to steer it back toward subjects which aren’t so close to home.
Always speak in a steady, normal way. Don’t stutter or mumble when you’re speaking to her. Communicate as you always do with friends and acquaintances.
 Distractions can be either a solitary activity (like a TV show) or a shared activity (for instance, a puzzle you work on together). In either case, your distraction should be something which doesn’t necessitate conversation. If you’re forced to talk to each other, you might find yourself in a situation where it’s hard to hide your feelings.


Distract yourself if you’re unable to distract her. When she’s around, busy yourself with a videogame, a book, or your phone/tablet. Find an activity you can do alone, even if she is nearby. Whatever you do, ensure it precludes the possibility that you will express your feelings to/about her.
 When you’re with her, it is more difficult to avoid situations in which you feel the emotional pressure to confess how you feel about her. If you must spend time with her, do it in a big group or at a party. In group situations, you can easily avoid her and spend time talking to someone else, or wander off so that you’re not near her.
 When the girl you’re interested in is around, maintain a pleasant but detached disposition. Be casual. Don’t ignore her or pretend you’re too busy to be bothered with her; that will upset her and hurt her feelings. Rather, show mild interest in what she has to say, but no more than you would with any other friend or acquaintance.


Do not become withdrawn or uncharacteristically quiet when you’re around the girl you like. Such behavior is a telltale sign that something in your emotions is amiss., You only have eyes for her. But leaning forward in your seat, palms on your chin, is a sure giveaway that you have feelings for her. Wear sunglasses (weather permitting) if she’s around, and look away at the ground or at a fixed point in the opposite direction from where she is located in order to best hide the way you feel.

