 This commonsense approach isn't always easy to adhere to when summer fun beckons, so it bears repeating. Avoid activities in the noonday sun as much as possible. It's best to limit your sun exposure between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. each day during warmer months. When you are outside during these times, limit your exposure as best as you possibly can.


Schedule activities early in the morning or later in the afternoon
Some people are particularly vulnerable to heat and should stay in cool places during hot weather, such as children, the elderly, obese, redheads, gingers, and those who have health problems.
 While sunscreen doesn’t necessarily have a cooling effect, its protective effect is vital during warmer weather. As well as being painful and damaging, sunburn can cause a fever and various signs of dehydration.If left unchecked, sunburns can lead to heat exhaustion or heat stroke.At the minimum, use SPF 15. If you're planning on being outside for a while, SPF 30 would be a better option.
Reapply often. Every two hours is recommended, but it should be reapplied more often if you're swimming or sweating a lot.
Apply roughly a shot glass worth of sunscreen to cover the entire body., Retreat to shade as much as possible. Taking breaks under trees works doubly well because trees release water into the air that absorbs some of the heat. While shade doesn’t lower the actual temperature, the lack of sunlight exposure makes it feel like the temperature is up to 15 degrees cooler.


If a cool breeze comes by, that can feel like an additional lowering of 5 degrees in the shade., When it’s hot and sunny outside, a dip in cool water is refreshing. Jumping into a pool is not always a choice. Don’t forget low-maintenance options like sprinklers.You could also try taking showers or baths with cooler than normal water to take the edge off.Fill a spray bottle with pure water and place in the refrigerator at home or work. When you feel too hot, spray a fine mist of the cooled water over face and body to help cool you down quickly. Refill as needed and keep refrigerated.Make a game of staying cool. Gather friends and run through sprinklers. Throw water balloons. Have a squirt gun battle.

