 In order to access your iMessage account on other devices such as Android, you will need to jailbreak your iPhone and let it act as a host that the other device will connect to. This will also require the purchase of a messaging app for $3.99.





If your device is running iOS 7.0 - 7.0.6, you will need to download the evasi0n 7 software. It is not currently possible to jailbreak iOS 7.1.
If your device is running iOS 6.1.3 - 6.1.5, you will need p0sixspwn.;
, Before jailbreaking it is always recommended that you back up your phone in case something goes wrong during the jailbreaking process. You can backup using iTunes or iCloud. See this guide for more details.
 If you have a passcode lock on your iPhone, you will need to disable it during the jailbreak process. You can re-enable it after the jailbreak is complete. You can turn it off by opening the Settings app, tapping General, and then tapping Passcode Lock. Toggle it to OFF.
 You will need to connect the iPhone so that the jailbreak software can be injected into the iPhone through the jailbreak program. make sure that you have the latest version of iTunes installed as well.
 With your phone backed up, connected to your computer, and the passcode disabled, you can start the jailbreak process. Click the Jailbreak button in the software you downloaded and follow the instructions displayed in the program.





See this guide for detailed instructions on how to jailbreak your iPhone device.
 Cydia is a package management program that gets installed when your iPhone is jailbroken. You will be able to find it on your jailbroken iPhone's Home Screen. Launch it so that you can find the Remote Messages 3 app.




Cydia allows you to download apps that are not available on the Apple App Store.
 Tap the Search button in Cydia and type in "Remote Messages". Select it from the search results to open the store page.





Make sure that you get Remote Messages from the BigBoss repo, as this is the only official and supported source.
 You will need to purchase Remote Messages 3 before you can download it. After selecting the program from the search results, you can choose how you want to purchase it. After the payment has been made, tap the "Install" button to begin downloading the app.





Once the installation is finished, Cydia will prompt you to "Respring" your device, which basically reloads the interface. Once the device has finished the respring, installation is complete.
 Before you can access messages on your Android device, you will need to configure Remote Messages to allow you to access your iPhone.





Open the Settings app on your Home Screen.Scroll down until you find Remote Messages. This is typically located towards the bottom of the list.
Set a username and password. You will need to enter this when you connect to your iPhone through your Android device.
Toggle the "Enable" slider to ON. The server will take a few seconds to start up. If the server doesn't start, reboot your device and try again.
Note the IP address and "Server Port" number that is displayed. You will need to enter these to connect to the iPhone.
 In order to access your iPhone messages on your Android, you will need to be on the same wireless network as your iPhone.
 Open any web browser app on your Android device, such as the stock Android browser or Google Chrome. In the address bar, enter the IP address and the server port of the iPhone, separated by a colon (e.g. 192.168.1.4:333).
 You will be prompted for the username and password you created when you configured Remote Messages. Enter it to continue.
 Once you've logged in, you will be shown a display of all your active messages. Simply select one and start typing just like you would if you were using iMessage. You can use the Remote Message service to send SMS messages through iMessage, attach files and media to messages, search your messages, and use emoji.
 You can set up a VPN tunnel on your Home network that will allow you to remotely access your iMessages from anywhere in the world. Setting up a VPN can be tricky and may cost a little money for a reliable service, but this guide will show you how.