 Of course, the best option is to not get in a position where you are failing in the first place. It may seem obvious, but one of the most important things you can do to pass a class is show up.This is the best way to get a sense of what content is most important and what the teacher wants you to do.


Even if material from class sessions is duplicated in course readings, attending class will give you a sense of where you should focus your studies.
Attending class gives you a chance to ask about material you are confused by or having trouble with.
Some teachers include an attendance score in calculating final grades. Even those that don't are less likely be accommodating with extra help for students who don't come to class, as they appear to not be making an effort.
 In addition to coming to class, it's important that you arrive on time. Important announcements about exams and major projects often occur at the beginning of class. Missing these announcements can mean missing important information.As with poor attendance, teachers often don't look favorably upon students who don't show up on time. Being late is disrespectful and disruptive.If you need help from your teacher in the form of extensions or extra credit, being on time regularly may make the teacher more likely to be lenient.
 Of course, just being physically present in class isn't enough. You need to be mentally present as well, paying close attention and participating in class discussions and activities.Many classes have a participation component in the final grade, sometimes a large one.Not participating can mean losing valuable points.
Being attentive in class will help you better understand the material.
Asking questions in class can help you grasp challenging concepts, and also signals to the instructor that you are engaged and trying your best.
 Always take notes in class, even for material that is simple, and even if you are recording the teacher's presentation.


Notes can be the basis for a study guide when it comes time to study for exams.
Taking notes helps reinforce the material in your brain and will help you remember it later.Taking notes by hand, rather than with a computer, is thought to be especially helpful in making material easier to remember and understand.This can be more challenging, but for many people helps significantly with recalling information.
 Try to do every assignment the teacher gives. In most cases, these assignments make up a significant portion of your final grade in the class.


Even getting an "F" on a homework assignment you struggle with is much better than getting no points at all.
Many assignments will be designed to teach and reinforce information or ideas that will be important later in the course, e.g. on exams.Doing assigned readings is important, too. Most teachers will not assign a reading just to give you something to do. Course readings typically contain important information which may not be covered in lectures or other class sessions., Regularly review your notes on what happens in class, as well as the readings. This will help you remember the information more easily come test time.


When you read for class, underline, highlight, or take notes indicate ideas or information that seems most important. This will make review go more quickly and easily.Create a study guide before exams that lists or visually maps the most important concepts and ideas.Go over it several times to make sure you are comfortable with all of the main course concepts.
Start studying early. Don't try to just cram on the night before the exam. Studying throughout the course, or at least for several days leading up to an exam, will give you more chances to rehearse the information and commit it to memory.

