 Children can start understanding what your expectations are from as early as 18 to 20 months; you just need to be fair and take into account their age, abilities and understanding. Make sure that your expectations run along your family values or, if in the classroom, the school ethos. When children know how they are expected to behave, what the limits are, how far they can go, and so forth, they learn how to self-regulate and self-discipline themselves. Eventually they will reach the point when it is not necessary to remind them anymore how to behave. Here are a couple of examples of what parents can expect from their children:


If the school run starts at 8.30 am in your house, it is understandable to expect all the children to be ready at 8.20.
IF someone makes a mess, it is understandable to expect the person who made it to tidy up.;
, It is very important to make yourself understood and to share your expectations with your children in a way that makes sense to them. Children can understand the reasons behind rules from very early on, as long as your explanation matches their ability to understand; that is, making it simple and using age-appropriate language. Nobody likes to take orders just because, and children are no different. However, if they see there is a good reason why they must (or mustn’t) do something, they will be able to understand your demand and cooperate.


For example, if you say “don’t climb the fence!” they will very likely try to climb on it as soon as they get a chance. But if you explain that the fence is old, it may break and they may fall down and hurt themselves, they will understand you are just trying to protect them.
 If you can’t think of a good reason to ban something, maybe it shouldn’t be banned to start with. If you want your children to follow certain rules, you need to lead by example. Say, for instance, you want them to put their coats in the right place when they arrive home––then you need to put your coat in the right place too and not just throw it on the first chair you find. Children are wonderful imitators.
 Children love challenges that they can overcome, they love achieving. They show signs of independence before they can even walk; from crawling to tying their shoelaces, children love learning how to do things for themselves. Doing everything for them can be very frustrating for the child and can become a source of conflict. If you notice that your children, or pupils, want to have a go at something without help, it means it’s time to let them try. It will help them build a healthy self-esteem and they will be able to share their achievements with others.


Encourage and praise the children for trying hard (i.e. “You are a big boy now ! You can make your bed, well done!”).
Independence can also be encouraged during episodes of bad behaviour (starting when children are at least 4 or 5). If your children are fighting, or come to you complaining after a fight, you can offer them better help by asking how they are going to manage the situation, rather than yelling at them, getting angry or telling them yourself what to do.
 We live in a very fast-paced world and we expect everything to happen straight away, but when our little ones behave this way, we get stressed and tell them to be patient. If children learn to be patient, there will be less stress around the adult who often feels in a rush to fulfill all the wishes of the child. One of the best ways for a child to learn how to be patient is by seeing his parents, teachers and significant adults being patient too. Try to not rush them when completing a task, listen to them until they finish talking, don’t show anger when you are driving in front of them. These are all good examples of moments when you can show your children that you are a patient person.


Other ways to build up patience include: Turn taking games, toys that need building before they can be enjoyed (i.e., construction toys), puzzles or reading a long story over a few nights.
 Children are children and even the best behaved ones have their moments, and they will all show displays of bad behaviour because they have good and bad days, just as adults do. What to do when this happens? Shouting and punishing are counterproductive, for these reactions create a bad atmosphere and by resorting to such measures, you are just focusing on the negative feelings and emotions. "Restorative practices" (RP) are used in many schools nowadays;these practices allow teachers and children to sort out difficult situations in a peaceful way and, at the same time, they help the children to put themselves in other people’s shoes.


One of the main features of RP is the avoidance of “why?”. It is very hard for children to answer to why they have done something, they almost certainly don’t know. They felt frustrated, scared or humiliated and they reacted in an unacceptable way; it is kinder and more productive to ask “what happened?”. If you ask what happened, children will feel they are being given a chance to speak about what led to their bad behaviour.
The next step is talking about how they think they made you and others feel, depending on who is involved. In this way, they have time to reflect on what has happened and how it has affected others.
Another good question to ask them is if they would like to have that done to themselves. Very possibly the answer will be “no”.
The last thing is helping them to understand that they must take responsibility for their actions. Ask questions such as: “What are you going to do to put things right? Is saying sorry good enough? What else can you do?”. These questions will help the children to reflect on the consequences of their actions and the possible solutions. This is a very simple version of RP, aimed at little children. When children are a bit older you can get deeper with the questions and the conversation.

