 Use good quality salted butter, as the bit of salt is essential to bring out the full flavor of your icing. Leave the butter out of the fridge for an hour so that it will soften. It should give freely under your finger when pressed. Note. it doesn't need to be liquid -- just soft.If your butter has been in the fridge, defrost it in the microwave for about 15 seconds, using 5-second bursts to ensure it doesn't liquefy.
Another way to soften butter is to cut it up into small pieces and place next to a warm stove. Smaller chunks of butter will soften more quickly., Use a low speed to mix up the butter, using the paddle attachment. Scrape the sides of the bowl to make sure that all of the butter is mixed together. Beat for about 3 minutes, or until the butter is light and fluffy.Using a wooden spoon is hard work, but not impossible. Basically, you want to keep working and beating the butter until it is a nice, airy mixture.
 Slowly add the sifted powdered sugar to the butter. Use a hand mixer at low speed to mix it together with the butter, keeping it moving as you add the sugar slowly. It can help to divide up the sugar first, adding only a fourth or a third at a time.


Powdered sugar can me sold as icing sugar or confectioner’s sugar, as well.
 Vanilla is added next. Keep mixing the icing with your hand mixer. Don't worry about adding it slowly -- just toss it in. You can use imitation vanilla in a pinch, but real vanilla is always a better choice., When you add cream to your icing, add it in one tablespoonful at a time. Mix up the icing after each time you add more milk. This will help you see how thick or thin your icing is getting. More cream leads to a more whipped icing, less leads to something more firm.


If you don't have cream, use whole milk in order to ensure at least some creaminess and richness. Some recipes call for heavy cream, which can be used for an extra rich icing.
 Depending on how thick your icing is, you may choose to thicken it up more or thin it out. Add a tablespoon of powdered sugar to thicken the icing. If you need to thin out the icing, add another tablespoon of milk. Continue to mix the icing to make sure your addition is integrated into the mix.


Mix the icing until it is light and fluffy. It should be easy to spread on a cake but not so runny that it slides off the cake., Put the icing in an airtight container to store in the refrigerator. Do not store it next to fragrant foods, such as onions or fish. Store for up to 2 weeks. If you want it for a longer time, you can keep it in the freezer for up to three months.


Store cakes with buttercream icing at room temperature for 2-3 days, max. Cakes that have icing on them can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days.
 Bring the icing out of the refrigerator and warm it up to room temperature. Stir it well with a spatula or use a hand mixer. The texture may not be as good as when you originally made the buttercream icing, but it will be close.


Add a tablespoonful of powdered sugar to thicken up the icing if necessary.