 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to bake the crust, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, use foil to line a 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) baking dish and spray the foil with nonstick cooking spray.Make sure that the foil goes all the way up the sides the pans so it can serve as handles to lift the cheesecake out when it’s done baking.;
, For the Oreo cheesecake bites, you’ll need a 14.3 ounce (405 g) package of Oreos. Place 24 of the cookies in a food processor and grind them up into fine crumbs.If you don’t have a food processor, you can place the cookies in a plastic bag and crush them with a rolling pin or other heavy object.
 When the Oreos are crumbled, add them to a large bowl. Mix in 5 tablespoons (71 g) of melted butter, and stir until they are fully combined.The easiest way to melt the butter is in the microwave. Place it in the microwave-safe bowl, and heat it in the 10 second intervals, stirring well after each. Continue heating the butter until is fully melted.
 Once the Oreo crumbs and butter are combined, use clean hands to press it into the bottom of the prepared baking dish. Make sure to press hard so the crust is firmly compacted., When the crust is in the pan, place it in the preheated oven. Let the crust bake for 8 to 10 minutes, or until it is just set.Be careful not to overbake the crust because it will bake further with the filling.
 When the crust is finished baking, remove the baking dish from the oven. Let the crust cool for about 15 minutes while you prepare the filling., The filling doesn’t need as high a temperature to bake as the crust does, so it’s important to adjust the oven temperature. Lower it to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius) so it can cool off while you prepare the filling., Add 2 8-ounce (226 g) packages of cream cheese and ½ cup (100 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use a handheld electric mixer to beat the two together on medium until the mixture is light and fluffy, which should take approximately 3 minutes.You can use a stand mixer to prepare the filling if you prefer.
You can also mix the filling by hand, but it will take a little longer.
 Lower the mixer’s speed to low, and add in ¼ cup (58 g) of sour cream, 2 large eggs 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla, 1 tablespoon (9 g) of all-purpose flour, and ½ teaspoon (2 g) of salt. Beat together until the ingredients are just incorporated.If you prefer, you can substitute vanilla Greek yogurt for the sour cream.
 Use a knife to roughly chop the remaining cookies from the Oreo package. Add them to the filling mixture, and use a rubber spatula to gently fold them in until they are fully incorporated.Make sure that the Oreo pieces aren’t too big; they should resemble rough crumbs.
 When the filling is just combined, add it to the prebaked crust. Use a rubber spatula to spread the filling so it sits in an even layer on the crust., Once the filling is spread over the crust, place the baking dish in the preheated oven. Allow the cheesecake to bake 35 to 45 minutes until the center is almost set.It’s normal for the cake to still be slightly jiggly when you remove it from the oven.
 When the cheesecake is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Place it on a wire cooling rack, and allow it to cool completely, which should take 20 to 30 minutes., Once the cheesecake has cooled, cover the baking dish with plastic wrap. Place it in the freezer, and allow the cake to chill until it is completely firm, which should take at least 3 hours.You can prepare the cheesecake the day before and freeze it overnight if you prefer.
 When the cheesecake is completely firm, remove it from the freezer. Lift it out of the baking dish using the foil on the sides, and use a sharp knife to cut the cheesecake into 36 bite-size squares.It helps to run the knife under hot water before you cut the cold cheesecake.
 After you’ve cut the cheesecake into squares, place them on a platter. Cover it with plastic wrap, and return them to the freezer for 10 minutes to chill., To coat the cheesecake bites, you’ll need 16 ounces (480 g) of chocolate. Place it in a microwave-safe bowl, and heat it at medium power for 1 to 2 minutes. Stir the mixture every 30 seconds, though, until the chocolate is completely melted and smooth.You can use any type of chocolate that you like to coat the bites, including milk, semisweet, or white chocolate.
 After you dip the bites, you’ll need a spot to place them until they set. Use parchment paper to line a large cookie sheet so the bites won’t stick even as the chocolate hardens.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper.
 When the chocolate is completely melted, use a fork to lower the squares into it one at a time. Move them around to ensure that they are coated on all sides, and lift out, allowing any excess to drip back into the bowl. Repeat until all of the squares are coated.When the bites are coated, set them down on the lined cookie sheet.
 Once you’ve covered all of the Oreo cheesecake bites, place the cookie sheet in the refrigerator. Allow them to chill for 20 to 30 minutes or until the chocolate is fully set. Place the bites on a platter, and serve.Store any leftover cheesecake bites in an airtight container in the refrigerator.







