 Your friend should be able to offer helpful advice in both the business world and training world of horses.;
, This should include basic horse health and equine first aid. See Related wikiHows (below). Also go to your local library and look for all the horse related books.


Volunteer to work at a local stable for a few weeks. This will give you a better idea of what owning horses is like, and that there is work involved; even when it's nasty weather for feeding outside horses.
 Let your horse-loving friends know that you're looking for a horse, and also tell them what you're looking for in a horse. Tell your riding instructor also; often he'll have clients that are selling a horse, and he may be able to help you try out a particular horse.


The sooner you let your friends know you're looking for a horse, the better. Oftentimes finding the right horse isn't a timely task, and better to start looking for the right fit sooner rather than later.
 From equine liability to whether there is a local tax on livestock that can reproduce (mares & stallions) to fire code laws for stables, it helps to know all the laws.
 Find and learn about boarding facilities, tack shops, feed stores, farmers that produce hay, vets, and farriers are in your area, and where the nearest equine hospital and horse ambulance service is.


Make sure that you have access to several hay suppliers, as a horse goes through around 2% of his body weight in hay daily. Visit your horse friends' barns and ask them where they buy their hay, also inspecting its quality.
Get the contact information of multiple farriers in case your regular one is busy.
Find a reputable equine vet. Find one that knows what he's talking about and also is friendly and explains things about keeping your horse healthy.
 Price the following and consider the sum: Are you ready for a horse financially?


Feed (hay, supplements)
Halter, lead rope
Saddle, saddle blanket, bridle, bit
Grooming kit
Water buckets

,, Keeping your horse on your own or rented land should be done only by knowledgeable and experienced horsemen. Livery/boarding yards are better for first-time horse owners. Look for ads in local papers, equestrian magazines and on the Internet. Ask in local tack shops and riding schools. If a yard (stable) has no spaces, ask them to recommend another yard.
 If it's rough board you'll have to feed and water your horse and clean his area daily. If it's full board, all you have to do is pay! Choose one that meets your horse's needs (e.g. safe, all-year turnout) and your needs in a comfortable environment.
 Spaces are rarely available at good yards and fill fast. Be prepared to pay a weekly/monthly fee to reserve a space until your horse arrives.
 This can include height, gender, age, health, discipline, training, breed, pedigree, and price.


Don't sacrifice health in a horse for your favorite horse color.
 Tell people like instructors, farriers, vets, and tack shop owners. These people have a lot of contact with various horse owners.



Animals shelters can also provide you with contact information of farm animals, including horses, that need new homes.
 Be careful, though; many horse dealers aren't too trustworthy.
 The average family horse will often make great horses for new riders.
 Don't forget to ask the following.


Confirmation of everything in the advert; age, height, color, breed, etc.
History and breeding
Competition and medical history
Reason for sale
Any vices or bad habits (biting, kicking, bucking, cribbing)
The horse’s current management
Any security markings and registrations (microchipping, breed societies)
If tack/equipment is included or can be bought cheaply from the current owner
How well the horse travels

, Ask many questions to avoid wasted trips to unsuitable horses.
 If you feel wary of the 'owner' really owning the horse, see if you can check any security marks to see if the horse was stolen. There are several databases for stolen horses; check them if you feel so inclined.




First visit: Arrive a little earlier than agreed and try to see the horse caught and handled. Ask to see him in different situations depending on what you want to do with him and what the owner has claimed the horse can do. Inspect tack if that is included in the agreement.

When viewing, ask the owner to ride the horse before you try it. If the owner will not ride, regardless of the excuse, do not ride the horse.



Second visit: If you think the horse is worth a second visit, take an experienced friend or professional with you for the next visit. Someone that knows your level of riding, like your instructor, is preferred. Be prepared to pay for the time of a professional. See about negotiating the price with the horse's owner.



Don’t choose a horse just because it’s cheap. A problem horse is not for a beginner and will cost more in the long run.
Less attractive horses, horses with superficial scars or growths, horses of a less popular color and part, cross or unknown breeds, often go cheaper while not being less suitable, unless you intend to show.
Think about your horse five years or so from when you buy. Its not about today and tomorrow, its about the many years you will spend time together.
 Don't merely accept the horse and hand over the money.
 Though many people do not like having their horse on trial it makes the decision a lot easier. It allows you to ride the horse for two weeks, keep him at your house, and also allows you to show him and see how he performs. Discuss this with the owner of the horse; you may be able to come up with a decision.


Most trials are a one or two week term, but some can be up to one month or more. In this time you are responsible for the horse in every way.
Find or write a proper legal agreement for having the horse on trial. Include stating how the horse should be cared for, where he should be kept, what activities he should be used for, and what will happen if the horse becomes sick or injured, or dies while in your care. Also include lines for your and the owner's signatures.
, Even if you are asked to pay for the tack, this will save you time. Many horse owners are more willing to give you tack and equipment or transport the horse for you than lower the price. However, make sure you have a knowledgeable horseman check the tack on the horse first to see if it fits.
 It may also save you to pay in cash and all at once instead of in payments.
 You can also ask your instructor to act as a reference. Show the owner proof of any equine achievements, such as competition wins or qualifications.
 Agree on a price, subject to vetting, and ask to put down a deposit (10%-20% of the price is very fair) to secure the horse from being looked at by other buyers.


Tell the owner if you don’t want the horse. It is polite and lets them know what’s happening.
 This is expensive but most insurance companies demand a health certificate, and often you'll need one to cross county or state borders.
 Keep these papers in a safe place where you won't lose them.
 This is optional but definitely advised.
 Buy feed from the current owner if necessary.
 Either a paddock or stall will work as long as the horse is separated from other horses for the first week or two. Get any basic equipment for feeding, grooming, traveling and some rugs if the horse needs them. You may get some of these with the horse.


Keeping your horse in a stall or pasture adjacent to other, friendly horses is ideal. This will let your horse meet the other horses will still being kept separate and away from harm.
 Usually a riding instructor or horse friend will allow haul your horse for you for a certain price. You can also haul the horse yourself if you have a trailer. Learn the local law of transporting horses and see if your driving license will work.


Many states (and even counties) will require a negative Coggins test and brand inspection before allowing you to cross their border.
 Keep to the horse's old routine as closely as possible for the first week.


It may take more than a week for the horse to feel his normal self again. Give him/her space but enough attention so the horse doesn't feel abandoned.
Remember that you'll need to slowly adjust your horse's diet over a period of 1-2 weeks.
 If you are keeping your new horse at your home, get him or her a buddy - perhaps an old retired horse, a goat, a miniature horse, or another similar creature. Horses are very social and it is near-abusive to deny them socialization.
 Train him, give him attention, and care for him. Treat him right and he'll do almost anything for you.
 Loaning a horse is similar to adopting one, but the owner will be a private owner. Loans can be long or short term.
 Sharing a horse involves caring and riding a horse for part of the week as well as making a financial contribution to the horses up-keep. The horse is usually owned by one person.
 This requires a signed contract, a monthly fee, and also commitment. Usually a leased horse will stay at the leaser's place and be ridden, fed, and done everything else with by the leaser. Some leases are longterm, others are short.
 This requires a lot less of a commitment but the horse won't be yours. It's similar to sharing a horse but no money passes hands.

