 Outside labels are most frequently found on men’s suits. You must remove them with care so that you won’t damage your garment, but these labels are meant to be removed.Look for the best approach and point of entry to begin removal.


Jeans also frequently feature an outside tag, generally in the form of a tiny patch that features the brand logo. These are not meant to be removed, so you will need to take extra caution when doing it, but these can be removed using this method.Another common example of an outside tag is one that you see sewn into an outside seam on a garment. Use tiny cuticle scissors to cut these off, since they are normally quite easy to get rid of.
 Make sure the seam ripper or the cuticle scissors are resting on top of the label when you begin. Gently pull up and your seam ripper will cut through the thread easily. If you’re using cuticle scissors, make a tiny snip to easily cut through the stitch.You can start anywhere, but it’s generally best to begin pulling stitches at the top right corner of the label.
 Pull them out consecutively. Be very gentle as you cut through the stitches so that you won’t damage your clothing with the sharp tip of your seam ripper or scissors.


Make sure to cut cleanly through each stitch. Don’t cut through a few of them until the label is loosened and then attempt to pull the rest of the stitches out.
 There will probably be a few stray threads embedded in your garment after you remove the label. Make sure the threads are totally loose before attempting to tweeze them out.
 Occasionally, you will have garments with outside labels that simply can’t be removed, because doing so would damage the garment or because the label is part of the garment itself. In these cases, there isn’t a lot you can do yourself, but there are a few options:


Check with a tailor or dry cleaning professional to see if they are able to do it for you.
Hiding outside labels is an option, but there is rarely a graceful way to do this. If the label is on your sleeve cuff, you can roll up your sleeves. Most outside labels on a shirt can be hidden with a jacket.
Outside labels on the back pockets of jeans can be covered with a long shirt or jacket.
Try using an iron-on patch to cover the label.

