 Moisturizing before and after you shave will help prevent nicks and cuts from occurring in the first place.
 Taking a warm shower before you shave or washing the area you are shaving with hot water for a few minutes prior to shaving will help keep the razor from dragging on your skin. This reduces the risk of nicks and cuts.This technique is called wet shaving.
When you wet shave, use a gentle soap that won’t strip away your skin’s oils or dry out the skin, which makes shaving even more difficult. , Replacing your razor blade regularly will prevent the nicks and cuts that come from shaving with a dull razor. Changing your blade often will also prevent razor bumps and redness, and reduce the growth of bacteria that might lead to infections. Change your blades as soon they seem dull. When the razor drags on your skin or when it feels uncomfortable to shave, this is a good indicator you need to change the blade.
Changing your razor after 5 to 10 shaves is one recommended timeline, but it depends on how often you use your razor.Gillette recently revealed that their razor cartridges are designed to last for five weeks., Although it might be tempting to try and save money and time, shaving dry or without gel or cream increases the likelihood of nicks and cuts. Use shaving gel or shaving cream so the razor will glide smoothly over your skin.


Hair conditioner also works well as a shave gel or cream, and can be less expensive depending on the brand. , Disposable razors with a single blade, while often more affordable, tend to drag on the skin, leading to nasty nicks and cuts.For a smoother shave, opt for a razor with more blades.
 Most of us don’t bother to clean or dry our razor blade after using, but research suggests this increases longevity, and prevents the blade from getting dull, which usually results in bad cuts and nicks. Try these tricks to keep your razor clean and dry:Rinse your razor after use in clean, hot water.
On a dry towel or a pair of jeans, wipe the razor in the opposite direction from shaving. This helps get rid of any hair or shaving cream residue that might dull the blades or result in a less than perfect shave.
Lubricate the blades after use with olive oil or an oil that won’t irritate your skin. You can use a cotton swab to apply a thin layer of oil to the blade.
Let the razor air dry, and store it away from water.
 Handling your razor properly and avoiding a few common mistakes will help prolong the life of your blades. You should avoid:Pressing too hard on the razor, which wears the blade down but also increases the risk of nicks and cuts.
Tapping the razor head against the sink or shower can damage the blade edges, shorten the blade’s life, and result in nicks and cuts.
 If your current shaving method continues to cause irritating nicks and cuts, research and experiment with other razor options or other hair-removal methods.


To get a smoother shave without the nicks and cuts, many people are turning to more traditional shaving methods with double-edged (DE) razors or straight razors.