 Just like you couldn't write a paper in Japanese knowing only three words, you can't write something if you know absolutely nothing of what you're writing about.;
, Just assume that everything you know is true, even if you're positive it isn't at all. Then edit

, to make your writing less definite. If you think maybe what you're writing is not quite accurate, this will help justify what you're saying. For example, instead of saying "The angles in the polygon added up to 1080º and everyone in our class found this", you could say "The angles in the polygon added up to approximately 1080º, and this was generally what everyone in our class found."

, This may seem complicated, but it's really not. Examples of words like these are imagination, exploration, understanding, thought, talent, meaning, etc (there are so many words like this!). Think of a sentence like "Susan's understanding of imagination had real meaning to me." Like, what the heck does that mean? Pretty much nothing, but it sounds good. Also, think of ads, like "At our school, we focus on teaching your child the ways that they can succeed, by using their imaginations to explore their talents and find meaning inside themselves." Again, what does that mean? This is a particularly good way to fill up a word limit without saying anything that can be graded against you.
 This is another great way to fill space. If there is just one concept you really get, use the aforementioned tool (using words to say nothing) to write sentence after sentence about it. Don't worry if sentences say the same thing as other sentences, just make sure they sound different. Note that this won't really work if you have to write about a certain number of concepts–teachers will still only find the one.
 This is a good tip if you have you write about, say, exactly three concepts. Take that one concept you understand (or know the most about) and break it down into the required number of concepts. This isn't as easy to see through, and even if a teacher DOES see through it, they'll have a hard time marking you down for it. An example of this is if you understand that Harry and and Voldemort represent good vs evil, you could break it down into 1) Harry represents good 2) Voldemort represents evil 3) Good and evil always meet in the end. It's like magic (no pun intended)–you suddenly have the number concepts you want!

, This word makes it look like you have a deep understanding of the topic, even if you're only using the aforementioned tips to completely invent whatever follows your "because." The best way to do these "because" statements is by using a lot of verbs to say something you could have said if you didn't even know what the topic was (an expansion of using words to say nothing). For example, instead of saying "I think Harry felt sad when his parents died", say "I think Harry felt sad when his parents died because the author demonstrated this with her explanation of the way Harry has empathy." This makes you look oh-so-much smarter.
 If you feel a little bit confident, you don't have to have a mind filled with facts. (Though you SHOULD. This is NOT a fail-safe strategy or a good way to learn.).

