 Before your first Botox treatment, your doctor may ask you for a thorough medical history along with any history of therapeutic drug use.


It is very important that you answer your doctor’s questions accurately and honestly, as some drugs are not suitable to be taken in conjunction with Botox treatments.
Even health supplements such as vitamin tablets and fish oils should be brought to your doctor’s attentions, as these can thin the blood and cause more bruising post-treatment.;
, Specific medication that you may need to stop taking before your Botox treatment include:Painkillers (aspirin, ibuprofen)
Certain herbal remedies
Antibiotics
Heart disease-related drugs
Alzheimer’s disease drugs
Neurological disease drugs
Vitamin-mineral supplements

, Your doctor may advise you to stop taking any aspirin-like products for a minimum of 4 days before the procedure.


This is due to the fact that aspirin causes bleeding, as it is an antiplatelet drug that prevents the blood from clotting.
Taking aspirin before a Botox treatment may cause excessive bleeding during and after the procedure.
 Having alcohol in your system can make bruising and bleeding worse during a Botox procedure, so avoid consuming any alcoholic drinks for at least two days before the treatment.
 These medications will help you manage the pain, headache, and swelling following a Botox treatment. NSAIDs inhibit the body’s production of prostaglandin, the hormone responsible for pain and inflammation. You can take these NSAIDs:



Acetaminophen (Tylenol). It is available in 200-400mg tablets and you can take it every 4 to 6 hours or as needed for pain management.

Ibuprofen (Advil). It is available in 200 to 400mg tablets and you can take it every 4 to 6 hours as needed.
 It’s a good idea to have an ice pack with you that you can use directly after the procedure in order to prevent bruising.


Be sure to wrap the ice pack in a cloth or towel to prevent directly damaging your skin. What's more, be sure to keep it on the area for only about 15 minutes, also to prevent damage.
The cold from the ice pack constricts the blood vessels underneath the skin, reducing the level of bleeding. The ice pack will also temporarily relieve any pain and inflammation caused by the injection.
 You should arrange for a friend or family member to drive you home following the Botox procedure. Since Botox causes your eyelids to relax and your facial muscles to droop, it may be dangerous for you to drive or operate any kind of machinery for at least 2 to 4 hours following the procedure.
 Avoid strenuous exercise for at least 24 hours following the Botox procedure, as the movement may cause the Botox toxin to spread to other parts of the body. Movement is fine, just make sure it's minimal.


If the Botox spreads to parts of the body it is not supposed to be in, you may experience adverse side effects.
 Symptoms like slight pain, inflammation, bruising, bleeding and drooping eyelids are normal following a Botox procedure. However, there are other, abnormal side effects that should not be experienced after Botox. If any of the follow symptoms occur, contact a medical professional immediately:


Difficulty in breathing and swallowing
Swelling of eyes and unusual eye discharges
Chest pain
Hoarse voice
Severe muscle weakness
Drooping of both eyelids and eyebrows
Presence of muscle weakness in areas that are away from the site of injection

, Botox has several adverse side effects that are completely normal, but can be rather unpleasant. These include:


Swelling at the site of injection
Pain and tenderness at the site of injection
Bruising
Drooping of eyelids
Muscle weakness
Nausea, vomiting and headaches
Excessive sweating in your underarms
Difficulty swallowing
Flu-like symptoms

, The Botox procedure basically involves having a bacterial toxin injected into your skin. The body will recognize this toxin as a foreign substance and produce an immune response, which results in the symptoms described above.


In some sensitive people, this immune response against the toxin may be severe (a reaction medically known as hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis). However, this is rare and does not occur amongst most patients.Bruising usually occurs in patients with pre-existing blood disorders such as anemia because their blood tends to be thinner which results in a poor healing process and hence more bruising.
 You might have come across this term whilst doing your own research. Basically, Botox is administered at a particular, small, local site which means the effect acts particularly in that place without affecting the surroundings. At least, normally. In some cases, it doesn't.


However, if you perform any strenuous work or in case of bruising, the toxin might spread to other places around the site of injection which can lead to the spread of the toxin which could paralyze the muscles in unwanted areas leading to effects such as eye drooping.
This phenomenon is called the” spread of toxin” effect. It is one of the most common side effects of Botox treatment; however, it is temporary and will usually disappears on its own within a few weeks.
 Botox is generally safe and can be administered to the vast majority of people without any danger of harmful side effects. However, there are some people for whom Botox is not safe. These include:Pregnant and lactating mothers should not take the treatment as it can prove harmful to the baby.
People with a history of neuromuscular diseases are not fit for the treatment as it can actually make their condition even worse, since the whole principle behind Botox is paralysis of muscles.
Patients with underlying heart diseases or blood disorders are also advised against the treatment as they are more prone to bruising.
People with Botox allergies. Unfortunately, there are no ways to determine whether one is allergic to Botox or not. There are no skin tests or test dose procedures that can satisfactorily determine any presence of allergy to the toxin.

