 Trash can harm wildlife in a variety of ways. For example, birds can get their heads caught in plastic rings. Other wildlife can consume trash, like plastic bags. To avoid poisoning wildlife, you should properly dispose of your trash.You can also pick up other people’s trash. Once a month, you could go out for a walk with a giant trash bag. Pick up as much garbage as you can.
 Try to reuse as much as you can.By reusing products, you reduce the stress put on the environment. Most cities have recycling programs even if they are not mandatory. Call your town or city manager’s office for more information.


You should be especially careful to recycle electronic devices. The Environmental Protection Agency publishes a list of places where you can recycle mobile phones, personal computers, and televisions., Pesticides can run off your plants and into rivers and streams, where they can kill off fish. Try to follow these rules for using pesticides so that they do not harm wildlife:Choose the least toxic products on the market. If possible, don’t use pesticides unless you absolutely must.
Avoid applying pesticides when it is raining.
Clean up all spills immediately.
Always leave a buffer between the plants you treat and any body of water.
Don’t spray flowers directly when bees are visiting the flowers. Only apply pesticides at night, when bees aren’t visiting.
Avoid disposing of pesticides in storm drains, sewer systems, or waterways. Instead, follow disposal methods recommended on the label.
 Think about what is on your plate before you eat it. You should try to eat plants (e.g., fruit and vegetables) whenever possible. Not only will this result in less animals being killed for food, it also helps reduce freshwater withdrawals and deforestation. If more freshwater and forests are available and healthy, more wildlife will have habitats to live in. You should also reduce your meat intake if possible. Meat production contributes to greenhouse gas emissions, which in turn perpetuate climate change. When the earth's climate changes, wildlife lose habitat and die off. When you eat seafood, try to choose sustainably fished and local seafood only. A lot of species are at risk of being over-fished and should therefore be avoided., The materials that make up the products you buy come from the environment and some are harvested more sustainably than others. If you consciously choose what to buy and where to buy it from (e.g., coffee, chocolate, furniture), you will be able to help reduce the harmful impacts certain products have on wildlife.


For example, when you buy wood furniture, ask where the wood was harvested from and if it was harvested sustainably. If the company cannot give you a direct answer, do not buy their products.When you buy chocolate, one of the ingredients in it is cacao. If cacao is not harvested sustainably, it can lead to deforestation and destruction of bird habitat., All animals need water to live, humans included. While water is a necessity of life, it is not infinitely available. Therefore, you should take special care of the water near you and only use what you need. By doing so, you will help ensure the water needed to sustain life is left in the streams and rivers where it can be utilized by other species.


For example, do not leave the water running while you are brushing your teeth or washing the dishes. Also, try taking shorter showers.

