 Place all of your spices onto a piece of cheesecloth, then tie the cheesecloth up with a piece of string, bundling the spices inside. After the cocktail is done cooking, take the cheesecloth bundle out and discard it.You can also use a tea ball or tea strainer instead.
Consider toasting the whole spices first. Put the spices into a dry skillet, then heat them over medium-high heat for a few minutes. This will help release their flavors better.;
, Some cocktails are heavily based on alcohol (ie: mulled wine), while others only contain 1 to 2 ounces (30 to 60 milliliters) for flavor. If your cocktail recipe only contains a minimal amount of alcohol, consider making a virgin (non-alcoholic) cocktail, and leaving the alcohol out on the table. This will allow your guests who want an alcoholic cocktail to add it in. It will also allow your other guests (and designated drivers) to enjoy the cocktail without any alcohol., Fresh fruit will lend your cocktails a sweet, yet tart, flavor. Winter fruit, such as apple slices, citrus slices, citrus peels, and whole cranberries are all great options., Some recipes become better the longer they cook, but this is not necessarily true for cocktails. In fact, the result can be just the opposite. For example, if citrus fruits are cooked too long, they can become bitter. As soon as your cocktail is how you want it, take out your fruits and herb bundles.

Cook the cocktail, covered, for 3½ on low, or 2 hours on high.If your recipe contains a lot of sugar, consider cooking it on high for 30 minutes first. Add the alcohol, then cook on low for 2 to 3 hours. This way, you will dissolve any sugar without cooking off the alcohol.
 Alcohol can go quickly at parties, and the last thing you'd want is to have to make more in the middle of it. Unlike regular cocktails, which can be prepared in minutes, crockpot cocktails typically require several hours. It would be best to make at least two batches; this way, your quests won't have to go thirsty for a few hours., Cold glasses work great for cold cocktails, but they will cool down warm ones way too quickly. Before serving your cocktails, fill your cups or mugs with hot, boiling water. Let the water sit for 1 to 2 minutes, then pour the water out. Dry the cups or mugs with a clean towel, then serve the cocktails in them. They will keep the drinks warm and help bring out their aroma.Use this technique with care on glass; the hot water may cause certain types of glass to shatter.
 If your cocktail recipe called for things like cinnamon sticks and apple slices, put some fresh ones in bowls (don't reuse them from the crockpot), and then set the bowls out on your table. Sweeter cocktails could also benefit from whipped cream, caramel, and crushed candy.