 You will no doubt already know this, but if you are in any doubt be sure to clarify whether your have leased the car or have an auto loan. A loan would mean that you have in effect bought the car and you are paying off the cost in instalments to a bank, auto dealer, or other financial institution. A lease, on the other hand, is a limited term contract that will expire after a certain length of time.If you are leasing a car it is generally easier to transfer the lease to another person than it is to transfer a full auto loan.
It is often not possible to directly transfer one loan between two people, but there are alternative ways to bring about the same result.;
, Before you go any further you need to make sure you understand your contractual situation. Thoroughly read through all the documentation you have about your auto loan, looking for information about your options if you are struggling to make the payments, or want to get out of the contract early for whatever reason.


There may be options in your contract to sell the car and pay off what you owe, or to trade in the car for another model and adjust the loan accordingly.If you are uncertain about your position, contact the loan company and consider getting some legal advice from an attorney.
 Once you have established your position with your loan company, you may well find that your best option is to sell your car privately. You could then use the money to pay off the amount you owe, with the new owner making the payments to the bank or loan company. If you decide this is your best option you need to have the agreement of your loan company before you go ahead with it.


Until you have paid off all the debt on the car, you will not completely own it, so you will need to get permission from your loan company to sell it.
Taking responsibility for the sale yourself will make it more likely that you will get a good price than if you left it to the creditor to sell.Defaults and repossessions are costly for creditors so they will most likely be interested in alternatives if you can't make the payments.
If you have an agreement with a friend or family member this can help the process move more quickly.
 The simplest way to effectively transfer an auto loan between between two people is for the new owner to take out a loan which he uses to buy the car from the old owner. The old owner will use the money from the new owner to pay off the amount he owes to the loan company and the car's ownership would be transferred to the new owner.If you are operating with one loan company this process could be more straightforward than if you are dealing with multiple organisations.
By doing this you are basically transferring the loan and the outstanding payments to another person.
Make sure that you also transfer the title of the car to the new buyer, in accordance with the laws in your state. Notify your insurance company that the car is no longer in your possession.

