 Plaid comes in many different colors and styles. However, its crisscrossing lines mean it's almost always fairly attention-grabbing. This means pairing multiple pieces of plaid clothing with each other can be overwhelming or "busy" to look at.


There's one exception to this rule. If you have one plaid accessory (like a scarf, purse, hat, pair of shades, etc.) that's designed to match your main plaid piece, you can usually get away with wearing both together.;
, This is a great "go-to" style choice when you're trying to add plaid to your wardrobe. Solid colors offer simple contrast to the complicated interwoven patterns of plaid. On top of this, neutral tones are versatile in terms of which plaid patterns they can pair with. Not every plaid shirt will pair with bright yellow chinos, for instance, but most will pair with a simple pair of jeans or khakis quite nicely.



Neutral colors include: White, black, khaki, muted blue denim, grey, and most browns and beiges., You don't always have to wear plaid with neutral tones. However, if you want to wear plaid with colored clothes, try to pick a plaid piece with one color that is close to the other color in your outfit.


For example, if you're wearing a set of bright blue jeans, you might wear a plaid shirt that includes a few stripes that are a similar shade of blue. The colors don't have to match exactly — light blue can go with dark blue and so on., Today, clothing sellers offer plaid garments in a huge variety of colors and shades. This means that you have lots of freedom when it comes to assembling your outfit. As long as you're following the color-matching rules above, there aren't any strict rules here, but a few general suggestions are below.



Brighter, more flowery shades tend to be best for casual events and warmer months.

Darker, more muted shades tend to be more formal and more appropriate for colder weather. For example, you would probably not wear pink plaid to a job interview, but navy blue plaid might work well.

Intricately-stitched patterns can give an upscale, intellectual vibe, especially when paired with a smart jacket and nice shoes.

Simple, bright-colored plaids give a very rugged, blue-collar impression. For example, Paul Bunyan and other "traditional" lumberjacks are often depicted in bright red and black plaid shirts.
 Plaid is the name of the pattern (not the material) so you can find plaid items in a variety of materials. In general, you'll want to find something that's just right for the weather outside — not too hot, not too cold. A few seasonal suggestions are below:



Spring: Light cotton or flannel shirts, umbrellas, stockings, hats, shoes.

Summer: Light cotton shirts (tied around waist when hot), skirts, shorts, jumpers, tees.

Autumn: Heavier flannel shirts, rain boots, trench coats, hats.

Winter: Heavy flannel shirts, jackets, boots, scarves.
 Not all plaids are created equal. Though all plaids use the famous crisscross pattern, a huge variety of colors, styles, and sizes are available. A few pattern suggestions are listed below:Tartan: Large, old-fashioned looking pattern. Usually dark green background with navy blue, yellow, and red crisscrosses. Good for scarves, blankets.

Tattersall: Small, tight, square patterns. Thin lines of color on a neutral background. Looks very clean and modern. Works well for semi-casual dress shirts.

Madras: Wide, colorful striped pattern. Usually incorporates bright, "flowery" colors. Good for flowing garments like dresses or loose flannel shirts.

Gingham: Two-color "checkerboard" pattern. Thick, regular stripes. Works well for a retro, folksy look.
 Your outfit is more than your top and bottom garments. Wearing plaid accessories is a great way to give a burst of color to outfits that are dying to look a little more vibrant. However, remember that it's not a good idea to wear more than one piece of plaid at once unless the pieces match exactly.



Possible plaid accessories include: hats, scarves, stockings, socks, purses, backpacks, shades, neckties, bowties, handkerchiefs, and much more.
 Women's flannel shirts can offer a wide range of fashion possibilities depending on how they fit and how you wear them. Pick the style that gives the impression you want to broadcast to the world! See below:Loose plaid shirts tend to appear more "rugged" and casual. Try pairing one with a band T-shirt or an old tank top for a grungy sense of style. You can even wear men's shirts and let the tails hang below the waist for a "boyfriend" look.

Fitted plaid shirts and blouses tend to appear more "put-together" and professional. These are great for a semi-casual look at the home or the office.
 Love your plaid shirt but can't figure out how to work it into your outfit? There's no rule that says you have to wear it as a shirt. Try tying it around your waist as a sash or belt to add a line of bright color to your outfit that attracts attention to your waist.


As an alternative, you can tie your shirt in a loop and wear it diagonally across your chest or tie the sleeves around your neck like a sweater.
 This easy look is fantastic as an "anywhere" outfit. Pair it with a set of a clean (yet casual) shoes like flats for a touch of refinement or try sneakers for spunky style.


You may want to keep jewelry and flashy accessories to a minimum with this outfit. These sorts of additions can clash with the casual aims of the rest of your clothes.
 It's also easy to use plaid to give the opposite impression. Try wearing a fitted plaid tunic or dress over a pair of dark leggings. Then, wrap a scarf or belt around your waist and add a few gold accessories, such as necklaces, bracelets, or earrings, for a touch of class. Finish it off with a pair of fashionable heeled boots. You'll have red carpet style on a fraction of the budget.
 No one's too old for this playful yet traditional outfit. Start by picking a plaid skirt with muted colors like navy glue, forest, green, or a neutral color. Then, pair it with a plain white button-down shirt for simple elegance. Wear a pair of black knee-high socks and throw on some simple black flats to complete the look.
 Women have tons of awesome options when it comes to plaid accessories. Look for a plaid handbag, scarf, or belt at your favorite outlet. Then, for maximum impact, add the accessory to a simple plaid-free outfit that only uses solid prints like to a white t-shirt and jeans. The contrast between the accessory and the rest of your clothes will naturally make it an eye-catcher.


Some famous labels, like Burberry, offer iconic plaid patterns on their accessories. These are great, but you don't have to spend lots of money to get this look. The visual contrast is what's important, not the price tag.
 When it comes to plaid fashion for men, the idea of "ruggedness" is a popular one. To get this rugged, masculine look, pick a long-sleeved flannel shirt in traditional colors, like red and black or gray and black. Wear it with your most comfortable jeans and a pair of hiking boots. That's all you need!


White or black tees are the perfect undershirts for this no-frills outfit. You can even try showing off a hairy chest by wearing a tank top — if you're going for the lumberjack look, you might as well flaunt it!

, Brighter plaids aren't just for women. Bright plaid flannels go good with a tee shirt and jeans or shorts for a casual beach-bum look. Alternatively, pair a bright plaid dress shirt with a pair of khakis or grey dress pants for a bold, semi-formal outfit.
 Depending on their fit, a pair of plaid shorts can have a wide range of effects. Try picking either a baggy or fitted pair of shorts depending on the situation. See below:



Baggy plaid shorts usually give a more casual, relaxed impression. Pair with a fitted tee or a solid dress shirt for best results.

Fitted plaid shorts usually give a slightly classier impression. They're still more casual than pants, but they're more connected to "upper-crust" sports activities like golf. Try pairing with a solid-color polo.
 Sometimes a small amount of tie in the right place can make a big impression. If you only want a subtle hint of plaid in your outfit, put on a plaid print tie the next time you wear a suit. The pattern will liven up your style without looking too tacky or overdone. Both neck ties and bow ties work well. However, plaid ties aren't usually appropriate for especially formal events.


Be sure to use a subdued, solid-color shirt under the tie. Patterned shirts can make your upper body look very "busy" when paired with a complicated plaid tie.
 Using plaid patterns for suits is do-able, but only if the plaid pattern is a subtle one. Suits that are bold about their plaid patterns are a relic of the 1970s. They can be visually distracting at best and can make you look like a game show host at worst. Pick plaid suits with very thin, subtle stitching and neutral colors to play things safe.


As a general rule, if a plaid suit looks like a solid color suit until you get close to it, it's probably safe.
 This is worth repeating. One of the very worst things you can do with plaid is to wear lots of it. The best plaid outfits generally have one prominent plaid item. Outfits that do use multiple plaid items generally have them matching exactly and use neutral tones to keep the plaid from overwhelming the outfit, but even this is a difficult feat to pull off.


Pairing two different kinds of plaid in the same outfit is almost always a bad idea. With the complex, interlocking patterns of the plaid and the many colors involved, it's almost impossible to get the two items to match. Even if you do, the effect can be overwhelming.
 Though it isn't always outright informal, plaid isn't usually considered especially dignified. There are usually much better choices for dressing respectfully. Unless you've been given special dress code instructions, it's better to stick to a suit, tuxedo, dress, or gown for events like weddings, funerals, and so on.


A good rule of thumb is this: if the event is something you feel like you need to wear a suit or dress for, don't wear plaid (even if it's part of your suit or dress).
 For the same reason that it's a bad idea to wear multiple different kinds of plaid, you won't usually want to wear plaid along with bright colors (either prints or solid colors). For instance, pairing plaid with neon-colored fabric is sure to make your outfit an over-complicated eyesore. Remember: neutral tones are your friends when it comes to plaid.
 One of the best things about plaid is that it's easy to get great-looking plaid prints for cheap at thrift stores. Plaid gets a somewhat appealing "weathered" look as it ages. This makes a plaid shirt that was once intended as semi-formal wear or work clothing, for instance, perfect for a "grungy" ensemble in a few decades' time. Save money on your next shopping trip by visiting a second hand store and digging around for these sorts of plaid bargains.
 For reasons that are difficult to define, bold plaid pants often look bizarre and distracting even when a shirt of the same print would not. While haute couture fashion models may be able to pull off plaid pants, 99% of the world's population can't, so you'll probably want to steer clear.

