 Go to http://www.canon.com/icpd/. The page will list all the countries where the Canon software can be downloaded. Just select the country you are in or the one nearest to where you are.
 In order to get the correct software for your camera, you have to filter it through four different menu filters. Under product category, select “Digital Cameras” from the drop-down list.

Under “Product Series,” select the appropriate camera type (i.e., Digital IXUS, EOS, EOS-M, Others, PowerShot) from the drop-down list.
Under “Product Model,” select the exact Canon camera model for your camera from the drop-down list.
Lastly, under “Type of Document,” select “Drivers & Softwares” from the drop-down list.
 After the filtering, you will be directed to a page where you have to choose your operating system. Choose the appropriate one for your computer., You will be directed to the download page. Details about the software, its system requirements, setup instructions, and a disclaimer can be read on this page. Scroll to the bottom, and click on the “Download” button., Canon authenticates the download and verifies if you really have a valid Canon digital camera. A pop-up window will then appear before the download begins and will ask for your camera’s serial number. Locate it on your camera or on its box, and enter it here. Once you click on the “Submit” button, the download will begin., Locate the downloaded file on your computer, and run the executable setup file. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation.

The software package will install several Canon applications for your camera. It will install CameraWindow, Image Transfer Utility, ImageBrowser EX, Map Utility, Movie Uploader for YouTube, and PhotoStitch. Refer to the camera user manual for further details and usage for these bundled applications.
 Turn on your camera by pressing the “Play” button at the back., At the back of the camera, press the Wi-Fi logo on the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu., From your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, select the cloud icon. The camera will start looking for available Wi-Fi networks in the area., From the list of available networks, select the one you’d like to use. Make sure you have access to this network as you will still need to input the necessary security parameters for it., When asked, input your network’s password. Press the “Func. Set” button to bring up the keyboard. Use this to enter the password. Once confirmed, your camera is now linked with your network, and it has stored it under an Access Point., In order for the camera to communicate with your computer over the Wi-Fi network, it needs to be properly configured with the Canon Image Gateway service.

Refer to “How to Link Canon IXUS 265HS to Canon Image Gateway” for more details.
 Have Image Transfer Utility run during startup. This will ensure that it’s constantly running and monitoring changes.

Canon’s Image Transfer Utility allows you to transfer the pictures taken from your Wi-Fi-enabled Canon digital camera to your computer after they are taken, or to download them from Canon Image Gateway after they have been uploaded from the camera.
 In order for the tool to properly monitor your camera and Canon Image Gateway, it needs to be linked with them. Locate the icon for Image Transfer Utility from the notification area, and right-click on it. The icon has an image of a computer with a camera in front.

Select “Add new camera” from the menu. You will be asked for your Canon Image Gateway email address and password in order for the tool to link and access it. (You should have an account by now from Part 2.) Enter it here, and click on the login button.
 Upon logging in, select the camera from the drop-down list. The list contains all the cameras you’ve linked under your Canon Image Gateway account. Click on the “OK” button to proceed.

The camera will now be added, and the tool will be able to receive pictures from it.
 There’s no need for you to manually trigger the tool to retrieve new images. If there are new images from your Canon Image Gateway account or sent from your camera, it will be able to detect and download them.

However, you can still manually trigger it by selecting “Check latest images now” from the menu from the icon on the notification area. Once triggered, the tool will check with your Canon Image Gateway account and your camera for new pictures and download them.

