 Before you get started, wipe off any dirt or sand residue that might be on the palms of your hands or the soles of your feet. Make sure your hands and feet are completely dry if you’ve recently been in the water. Moisture and grit can cause you to slip on the way up, making your climb more difficult.Climbing smooth, branchless trees like palms is all about getting sufficient traction against the trunk.;
, Look straight up at the tree trunk and examine its features from all angles. Observing how the trunk curves, where it narrows or gets thicker, and whether or not there are leaves or other protrusions sticking out can help you decide on the best route and technique. Try to find a path that is straight, free of obstacles and doesn’t require you to overcome an inclined curve.


Most palms and similar trees won’t have any sizable obstructions in the way, but you may encounter knotholes, loose bark and other potential dangers. Always scout the tree out before climbing. It will give you a better sense of where exactly you’ll need to place your hands and feet, as well as any unusual angles you might have to negotiate., There are many different varieties of palms and similar trees. On some palms, the fibrous bark grows in scale-like circular ridges around the length of the trunk. These types of palms will be much easier to climb, as the grooves will act as small hand and footholds. If the tree you’re climbing does not have grooves, you’ll need to be much more confident in your grip and technique.Grooved palm trees provide just enough of a ledge to hook your fingertips and toes on.
Smooth trees can still be climbed with ease; you’ll just have slightly less margin of error.
 Stand at arm’s length from the tree. Reach both hands around the base, one higher and one lower, and cup them around the trunk’s backside. Press your fingers firmly into the tree’s surface to get a solid grip. Lean your upper body back so that both arms are straight and pulling against the tree.In order to effectively walk up the trunk, you need to create and maintain a counterbalance each time you move a hand or foot.
You can bend your arms a little once you get moving, as long as they don’t lose tension.
 With your arms outstretched and your body leaning away, you should have enough space between yourself and the tree to get your first foot up on it. Place the foot around hip height. Then, push with your leg as you pull toward the tree with your arms. Lift your opposite foot and position it on the trunk above your first foot. At the same time, move your lower hand up and grip the tree above your other hand. Repeat this action, using the balance created by pushing and pulling simultaneously to stabilize yourself, until you reach the top of the tree.Take small steps. Don’t try to overreach. Placing your foot too high or pushing too forcefully against the trunk can make it hard to hold on with your hands.
To maximize your grip and agility, only the ball of the foot and toes should be in contact with the tree.
 When you’re ready to come down, reverse the walking motion and work your way down the tree slowly. Be careful—you’ll be in a less stable position while you’re descending. Alternate the placement of your hands and feet as you lower yourself, keep your arms taut and pushing against the trunk with your legs the whole time.Go slowly. Getting down is usually trickier than going up.
There may be times when you’re forced to slide your feet rather than taking individual steps. If this happens, keep your muscles tight and your hands moving so you don’t lose control.

