 Search online or in a fabric store to find a pattern that you like. You might also find a couple of different patterns and take elements of each one to pair them together and make a unique creation of your own.;
, Decide which colors you’d like to use for your dress. Buy enough rolls to produce the dress you want. It will vary depending on the pattern and your own dress size.


Start with 3-6 rolls of tape and be ready to head out and buy more if you need to.
The amount of tape will also vary depending on whether you use a single layer of tape on a piece of fabric for your “fabric,” or if you are making the dress solely out of duct tape.
 Non-stick scissors are ideal for working with duct tape because the scissor blades are coated with a non-stick material. These are available at fabric stores.
 Depending on how you plan to assemble your duct tape “fabric,” you might find it preferable to use fabric or an old dress to help you along.


Using cotton fabric on the inside of your dress will also make the dress more comfortable to wear.
 You’ll need a good-sized work surface for constructing your creation. This should be cleaned of any dirt or dust that could get stuck to the tape. A table is good; the floor will work too if you don’t have other available space.
 A stapler might be useful for securing the panels of duct tape fabric together. It is also useful for installing a zipper in your duct tape dress.
 As you start to make your dress, you may benefit from someone else helping fit you for your dress. She might also like to make her own dress and you can help each other.
 Place each strip of tape on your work surface, sticky side up. Overlap them by about ¼ or ½ inch so that each strip sticks to the strip above it., Rotate this section of strips so that they are oriented vertically. This will help reinforce your fabric and make it stronger when you attach additional strips of tape.
 Using strips of tape that are long enough to cover the vertical strips. Overlap these strips, sticky side down, to completely cover the bottom strips.


Alternately, you can cover these strips with a piece of fabric cut to fit. This makes a softer inside that will be more comfortable when you wear the dress.
 Make these strips into fabric panels by trimming away sticky edges. They will be easier to work with if they don’t stick to each other until you’re ready for it.
 If you are using a pattern, the pattern will give you estimates of how much fabric you will need.


A yard of fabric is 36 inches by 36 inches. If you make two 18-inch panels of fabric, then you can tape those together to make a yard of fabric.
 Unfold the papers that come with a dress pattern and cut out the pattern pieces., Follow the instructions on the pattern for whether your duct tape fabric should be face up or face down. Trace the pattern pieces on your fabric or pin them to the fabric.
 Use your non-stick scissors to cut out the pattern pieces. Keep them with the pattern pieces so that you know which fabric piece is which.
 Assemble the pieces of the pattern according to the instructions. You can either use tape to “stitch” the pieces together, or you can staple them together.If you staple your pieces together, cover the staples with tape so that they will not poke you or catch on anything.
 Use a dress that is a little big for you. It can be any color and it doesn’t matter if there are stains. You’ll be covering up the entire dress with duct tape anyway., If you’d like the basic dress form to be your size and shape, then you’ll need a friend to help you wrap tape around your body.
 The first application of tape will be around the ribs. Don’t worry if your fabric folds or wrinkles a little bit. It will be covered with tape.
 Take a strip of tape and place one end on your left shoulder. Cross it down in front of your chest and attach it on the tape around your ribs. Place another strip of tape crossing your chest from your right shoulder to the tape around the ribs.
 Place a strip of tape from your left shoulder, across your back, and attach it to the tape around your ribs. Do the same starting with your right shoulder.
 Continue to cover the upper back of the dress with tape.


Fold the edges of tape over the neckline of the dress so that the tape is wrapped into the inside of the dress.
 Stick strips of tape all around the ribcage and under the armpits to continue making the bodice of the dress form.
 If your dress has sleeves, cover them with tape. You will likely want to only short or cap sleeves, not longer, as they might be difficult to get off your arms.
 Carefully form the bust of the dress form so that the dress will fit you well and won’t slide off too easily when you’re wearing it.
 Once the top is done, you can move on to the waist area. Start wrapping tape around the waist and hips. Don’t pull too tight. Allow the tape to follow the curves of the body. If you need to, cut the tape and start with a new strip to position it correctly.


Place as much tape as you’d like to make the preferred length.
 Ask your friend to cut you out of the dress by cutting straight down the back center of the dress form.You will then be able to create a fastener to ensure that the dress stays on when you’re wearing it by stapling in a zipper or creating tape strips that hook from one side of the back to the other.
 Once you have the correct form size, you’ll be able to use it as the base for a unique design that you tailor to your own style.
 Your dress form will likely have sleeves and a neckline that conforms to the shape of the original dress used underneath the duct tape. You can cut these sleeves and neckline to shape them as you prefer.


Add more tape along the neckline and sleeves to finish off the edges.
 Once you have the basic form for your dress, you can start to design the color scheme that will be displayed. Try a complementary color of duct tape along the neckline and hemline.
 Make a more elaborate dress design by cutting your tape into different shapes, such as butterflies, flowers or flames, and sticking them to your dress., Add additional flair to your dress by creating rosettes or bows made of duct tape in complementary colors and attaching them to your dress with tape or staples.