 Once you’ve settled into your temporary accommodations, do your best to keep your personal area well-kempt and orderly. Make sure that your belongings take up as little space in your host’s home as possible, and clean up after yourself in common areas like the bathroom or living room.For example, fold and put away any unused or dirty clothing, take any cups or dirty dishes back to the kitchen, and make your bed in the morning.
 Since you’re broke, you probably won’t be able to go out to eat while staying over at your friend’s house. Instead, ask your hosts if you can help out and ‘earn your keep’ by taking on cooking duty during your stay. If you’re not a great cook but your hosts are, ask if you can provide a helping hand during grocery shopping and dinner preparation.Since your friends probably have daytime jobs, you probably won’t be sharing breakfast or lunch with them. Stay on budget while remaining a good houseguest by picking up some cheap cold cereal or bagels for your breakfasts, and some instant ramen noodles or basic sandwich ingredients for lunches.
 In the comfort of your own home, you might go several days or a week before wiping down your sink or cleaning the mirror. When you're a houseguest, though, you should be extra vigilant about tidying up any trace you might leave in the bathroom.


For example, wipe off any toothpaste or soap residue you’ve left in the sink, check the mirror for splash marks from washing your face or brushing your teeth, and check the shower drain for any hairs you might have shed while bathing.
 Just because you can’t show your appreciation for your guests with traditional gifts like wine, flowers, or a gift certificate, doesn’t mean you can’t express your gratitude and courtesy in other ways. Pitching in around the house may not be the most conspicuous or glamorous display of gratitude, but it’s something that will actually make your host’s life easier and more pleasant during your stay.Be tactful when assisting around the house! Don’t go in your host’s private areas without permission, avoid any cleaning tasks that would require you to open drawers or touch paperwork, and don’t make any substantive changes to the home’s organization, even if you think you’re making improvements.

