 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is Spider-Man with the classic Spider-Man on the logo. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the main page, tap the red “Events” button to play under the Events mode or the red “Play” button to play under the Unlimited Mode.


Both the games under the Events and the Unlimited Mode are the classic endless runner games, where the main objective is to run as far as you can and get the highest score possible.
 On the right side of the screen are four boxes. Tap on the unlocked ones. You should have at least one. Choose from the available Spider-Man characters you have.


Select one that has the highest level to get a higher multiplier for your score. If you have more slots, equip more Spider-Man characters to bring up your score multipliers.
 Tap the “Start” button. Play the game and get a high score.
 When your game ends, you will be shown a summary of your game. The number of Vials, ISO-8, and Combos you’ve collected will be displayed. The total score is displayed at the bottom. Tap anywhere on the screen to continue.
 The Leaderboard for the Event played or for the Daily Challenge is shown, with your current rank highlighted. Games played under an Event or under the Daily Challenge have corresponding rewards based on your rank.


Rewards vary per Event and per day for the Daily Challenge, but the higher rank you get, the greater the reward you will receive.
Some rewards include a Standard or a Premium portal and, on rare occasions, an Event portal. On rarer occasions, top ranked players get a totally new and very rare Spider-Man not found under any portal.
 Climb the rankings to get more chances of portal rewards. Continue playing.
 At the end of an Event or a Daily Challenge period, your reward will be sent to your Inbox. Tap the “Menu” button on the upper right corner of the screen, and then tap the “Inbox” button. If you’ve ranked and are eligible for a reward, it will be displayed here.


Tap the “Claim” button to receive your reward. If the reward is a portal, you can go to the Recruit page and tap the red “Claim” button to bring in your new Spider-Man.
 A portal will open and a Spider-Man will come in. The Spider-Man’s costume name and stars will be displayed, with its level and abilities.


To know more about this Spider-Man, tap the question mark icon beside the character. This new Spider-Man will be added to your team roster.

