 It's up to you whether you give something expensive or cheap. In this article, the gift is an iPod Nano but any small item is fine, including electronics, picture frames, clothing and trinkets such as key chains, tools and small toys, etc.;
, These are listed below under "Things You'll Need". The boxes can be of any kind; grocery boxes are just fine but if possible, have a decoy box for the second-to-last box prior to the real gift, just to "double prank" your recipient! (In this article, the iPad box serves as the decoy box, in which the iPod gets placed.) Bear in mind, though, that if you put a cheap gift in a box that suggests a valuable or much-desired gift, the recipient may be disappointed and upset - hopefully that's not the effect you want.


Check that the boxes each fit into one another. Just doing this by sight can be deceptive, so be sure to check that each box fits into each bigger box until your main, final box. If not, hunt around for more fitting boxes or visit your local grocery store for some more.
 In this example, an iPod.
 Since this prank is a "double prank" because the iPod is being inserted into an empty iPad box to make the poor recipient think that they've finally got to their gift of an iPad, the small first box is one in excellent shape. (This is a rather mean trick which you might prefer to avoid, and use a plain box or one that suggests some cheap contents.)

,,


At this stage, you may notice the potential for rattling to occur. If this is the case, include scrunched up tissue or newspaper, or foam peanuts. These will serve to prevent the box from moving, as well as being even more effort for your recipient to unwrap! Make use of such stuffing in every level of the wrapping where you're concerned about the potential for the gift to rattle around.
,


For the purposes of this article, a box with a hole in its lid was chosen so that you could see the earlier box tucked safely inside. This is how the layering should look if you could see through the box with X-ray vision.
 At this stage, you've got the idea by now. Basically, continue the process of wrapping each successive box and placing it inside the next biggest box, adding stuffing if necessary, until you've reached the dimensions wanted.


You can also include additional layers of wrapping in between boxes, or every few boxes, to make it even more frustrating and effort inducing!

, Pin the photo up on the work bulletin board or family fridge with a caption for memories of a Christmas party that was a little more amusing than normal.


A video is also a great way to capture the mounting frustration slash excitement that builds with a layered Christmas gift!

