  You might need these if you have to contact Blizzard to get your account reinstated.;
, Avoid commonly used words, names, personal data such as birthdays, and use a combination of letters and numbers. The passwords “qwerty” and “abc123” are going to get you hacked.
 Don't give your password to anyone else, not even family. Has anyone else heard other players in their guild saying “but I only let my brother use it once” from players who then discover that their charming younger brother has either deleted stuff, sold gear, bought loads of crap from AH you don't want, or boasted and spread your password all around his school. On a side note, why is it always “my younger brother” who does this? Don't any of you have grannies with a love of vendoring Tier sets?

, This applies especially if you're surfing the dodgier side of the web 'accidentally' waiting for free software to fall off the back of a lorry.
 Zac Johnson's blog tells the story of a nasty virus attack. You can get some great free antivirus if you can't afford the expensive ones.
 Chances are, that email isn't real. There are some easy ways to recognise fake phishing emails. Check for spelling, grammar, and downright bad manners. Never reply with your account and email. Never click a link in an email. Never enter your password at a dodgy website. You might as well just mail them your credit card and a Happy Birthday card!

, Even if you practice perfect Internet security at home, you’ll waste all that effort if you log on from a friend’s machine that has been compromised. If in doubt, miss the raid, and apologise to your guild leader later. You know he likes grovelling anyway.
 You can set this up in the guild ranks options.
 Blizzard sell authenticators which you can link to your account. They are small devices that generate a code which identifies you as the true owner of the World of Warcraft account. They're easy to set up and use, and very cheap. I'm terrible at losing mine, so I threaded a big shiny cord through it, and now it doesn't get lost on my desktop. On a side note,you also get a cute in-game pet, the corehound pup! Authenticators also come in iPhone versions for smart phones.
 Choose a site that you know is safe and stick to it for all your downloads. Try Curse Gaming's World of Warcraft addon section.
 Make sure that any trojans keybloggers, malware and viruses cannot exploit holes in outdated Windows operating systems. Click Windows Update in the Start menu.
 Don't buy gold. End of discussion. Oh, you still need to know why? Let's ask Blizzard:


“Supporting these types of illicit services is not only against the Terms of Use, but it promotes botting, spamming, and other forms of exploitation -- as well as account theft. While the promise of gold stockpiles and effortless level-85s may be tempting, you could end up paying more than just cash for sharing your account information with these companies. (Also, that gold you're interested in buying? We've found that it is most commonly stolen from compromised accounts and turned around to be sold back to other players. Not cool.)”Blizzard

, Basically, players have paid money to these companies, sometimes large amounts, and they're then targeted by these same companies down the road. We come across stories every week of the after-effects of players using these services, and some players now have to deal with long-term repercussions -- in addition to consequences such as possible account suspension or closure, in many cases the companies they paid use their personal information to perpetrate identity theft and credit card fraud. These are long-lasting effects on players' personal lives that can take years to recover from.” Blizzard

,