 Sudden movements can startle a sick or injured animal, especially a stray one. As you approach the animal, walk slowly. If you notice the animal tensing up or shrinking away, pause until the animal relaxes. Keep moving forward until you are close to the animal., As you move, you should speak to the animal in a gentle, calm tone. Do not raise your voice, shout, or call to the animal, as this might frighten them. Instead, speak just loud enough for them to hear you. Say your words slowly.


You might say something like, “Come now, I’m not going to harm you. I just want to help.”
Soft clicks and shushing noises can also help calm the animal.
 As you go towards the animal, observe their movements and expressions. If the animal seems hostile to you, you should stop until the animal relaxes. If you keep going, you risk being attacked.


Growling, hissing, snarling, or barking can be the cat or dog’s way of warning you not to come near.
A dog that is stiff and still is in a defensive position. The dog may express fear by tucking their tail between their legs, peeling their lips back from their teeth, or pacing. In this situation, the dog may bite. You want to wait until the dog appears relaxed or loose.If the cat’s ears have turned backwards or flattened, they are angry or fearful. An arched back or raised fur is another sign that you should not go near. A relaxed cat will be lying on the ground or exposing their stomach., If you have gotten close enough to the animal without any snarling or hissing, you can start to use your own body language to speak to the animal. Cats and dogs have different forms of body language than humans.


Avoid making eye contact with dogs. Feral dogs may take direct eye contact as a sign of aggression. Instead, try crouching down. Hold out your arm to them to let them sniff it.With a cat, you can try slow blinking at them. Slow blinking is a sign of affection for cats. If the cat returns the gesture with a sleepy, slow blink, it means that they feel safe around you.Sometimes, just sitting near the injured animal will let it feel safe around you. Do not attempt to pet or lift the animal. Just sit near it and talk to it. The animal may come to you if they feel comfortable.
 If the animal starts to back off or if the animal appears frightened or aggressive, stop moving towards them. Instead, you might try bringing the animal to you. Food works well in luring an animal to you.


Strong smelling foods, such as canned tuna or dried liver, are effective at luring animals out.Feral cats and dogs may be hesitant to approach you.Leave the food on the ground and step away, giving the dog or cat plenty of space. If the animal takes the food, you might create a trail of food until the animal is ready to come near you.
You can also lure the animal into your car and close the door, keeping them there until a vet or animal control can come pick it up. Do not sit in or drive a car with an unfamiliar animal inside of it.If you have a trap, such as a drop trap, you can leave a bait trail to bring the animal into the trap., Once you have successfully captured the stray, you should find somewhere to take them for treatment. Some shelters will accept injured animals and help rehabilitate them, although you should be careful as others will simply euthanize the animal. You can also take the animal to a private vet or animal hospital. You may be responsible for the cost of their treatment, however., If it is apparent to you that it is too dangerous to approach a stray animal or if the animal refuses to come near you, you can still help by calling animal control. They are trained to safely capture injured and sick animals. Give them your precise location. If they can come right away, you might wait for them to let them know where the animal is.If you live in a rural area, you might have to call the police instead.

