 Place cash registers near the entrance/exit to the store. Instruct your cashiers to welcome customers as they come through the doors. Keep sight lines open from the cashier to the rest of the store. Locate your most valuable items close to the cashier and have them monitor this area. Shoplifters are less likely to go through with the theft if they are being watched closely., A shopper is less likely to shoplift if they know they are being actively monitored. Install highly visible cameras, mirrors, and warning signs to let shoppers know that the store takes theft seriously, and will enforce penalties against all violators.Place mirrors in corners or obscure areas that are more likely to be a hiding spot for theft.
 Employees should not only be trained to recognize petty theft, but they should also be prepared to put their skills into practice daily. At the Loss Prevention Research Council Annual Session, professional shoplifters noted that employee visibility was the #1 deterrent to theft.Ensure that employees remain aware by walking the floor, assisting customers, monitoring the dressing room, etc.


Employees should be looking for shoppers who: avoid eye contact, appear nervous, seem to wander aimlessly, leave and return to the store repeatedly, constantly eye other customers or employees, and linger in obscure areas.Make sure employees remain vocal by greeting all customers, and asking lingering customers if they require assistance.
Set up a policy that forbids physical contact or restraint of shoplifters, due to possible lawsuits and complaints. Make sure your employees know that it is also illegal to profile customers based upon race, gender, ethnicity, age, or disability.
 There are certain policies that will make shoplifting difficult for thieves. Implement policies regarding bringing in shopping bags, and implement dressing room policies if you have a retail store that sells clothing or shoes.Implement a policy regarding shopping bags brought in by customers. For instance, have them leave bags at the checkout counter, and give them a number that allows them to retrieve their items upon leaving.
Keep dressing room doors locked and have a dressing room attendant that monitors the number of garments taken into the fitting room by each shopper.
Exits for emergencies should be alarmed or locked, but remain in compliance with fire code.
 Make sure that employees are up to date on on store policies regarding discounts, returns, and coupons. Cashiers should be familiar with item prices in order to be aware of price tag switching, current coupon scams, and bad promotion codes. Bad coupons and codes can affect the profit margin of stores because if the coupon or code is considered invalid by the manufacturer, the store may not be reimbursed.Employees should be aware of a large quantity of coupons being redeemed, or a larger than average redemption value.
Avoid scams on returned goods by always requiring an original receipt. If customers don’t have a receipt, you can implement a 20% restocking fee to deter would be scammers., When your store is kept neat, it is much easier to notice if something is out of place or missing. Keep all merchandise “faced,” which means pulling all products to the edge of the shelf to form a solid wall of merchandise.