 To begin with, you should wash your hair and fully dry it. Use a good volumizing shampoo and conditioner to get even bigger hair. Make sure you blow-dry or let hair fully dry, never tease wet hair!;
, To do this use a hair putty(e.g. Garnier's fiber gum in the little green jar). Wet your hands, get a good clump of putty, and rub it all over your hands, front and back. Then apply the putty to the parts of your hair you will be teasing. This will give your hair a "fake dry/damaged" texture when applied to heat. But don't worry, when you wash your again hair it will return to your regular texture, hints the "fake".
 Separate your hair into sections; thicker hair, or hair with more layers may need to have more separation. Now, spray hair all over with a thermal heat protecting spray. You can find these at Target or your local beauty salon. Protect your hair!! You will feel sorry later if you don't take the time to care for it now!!

, Try to get it pin-straight or pretty close. Make sure your top layer is straightened, because this is where you will be teasing! And it looks tacky when hair is teased and natural wavy looking, like you don't spend time on it.
, Now, grab your teasing comb. Take your shortest layer and hold it up. Spray your roots in the area your holding, and comb backwards, towards the crown of the head.
 After all the areas you want teased are done, start by combing down the ends and work your way up, so it looks even. Otherwise, you will have combed through the teased parts and you will have to start teasing over again. If it sticks straight up, don't worry, this is what you want, you just have to control it. Look to scene girls for different teasing styles, and how high you want.
 If you have multiple sections go on to another and let the spot that you just sprayed dry.
 You will have to repeat the combing for an all-over smoothness.
 If you want a silky allusion, then spray a ph balance over the top of your hair. An easy, cheap version of a ph balance is a detangle spray, it gets the job done nicely. brush over it lightly and you are armed and fabulous!!

,