 Set your seed spreader to the recommended rate and fill it with half of your seeds. To ensure the best coverage, make the first pass in one direction over the entire lawn. Then, fill the spreader up with the remaining seed and cross over the initial direction. Think of making a crisscross pattern over the area.








You may choose to cover the entire area again with an empty spreader to ensure good seed to soil contact., Once you've seeded the entire area, add some peat moss to your soil to set the seeds and help them hold moisture. Using a cage roller, apply a thin layer of peat moss to your seeds.








This layer of mulch will help keep your seeds moist during germination. It may also protect them from birds and limit their movement in the event of heavy rain.You can also spread your top-dressing by tossing it lightly over the seeded area with a shovel. Use a rake with the tines facing up to smooth down the top-dressing and ensure that the seeds are well covered and in contact with the soil.
 Perhaps the best way to water is with an oscillating sprinkler. If you have access to multiple sprinklers set them up in various parts of your yard to wet the entire area.








For best results, water your seeds 2-3 times a day for about 5-10 minutes for the first 8-10 days. During this period it is critical that your seeds stay moist. You don't want to over water the seeds, but you do want to encourage germination. Water in the morning to decrease the chances of evaporation.Don't use a strong spray when watering a newly seeded lawn. You run the risk of drowning your seeds or washing them away.When watering your lawn, be aware of any potential rainfall in your area. Take the amount of rain into consideration when watering and aim for about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water a week.If you live in an area prone to heavy rainfall, you could lose some seed. However, the rain must be heavy enough to move the soil before it can move the seed., When the grass reaches about 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10.2 cm) it's time to mow. Make sure the soil is dry when you mow; if it's wet you could pull the grass out of the ground.