 If you're going into a relationship with someone who's never had sex, you'll want to learn your partner's expectations. Everyone has different feelings about sex and sexuality. You should understand your partner's expectations for a romantic relationship, including expectations regarding physical contact.


Your partner may be a virgin because he or she practices abstinence. Abstinence means refraining from sexual activity. Your partner may be abstinent because of religious reasons. He or she may also be abstinent because he or she does not feel ready to have sex yet.If your partner is practicing abstinence, understand his or her expectations. People define abstinence in different ways. Some people define abstinence as refraining from genital-to-genital contact and may be open to other forms of sexual activity. However, others define abstinence more strictly. Ask your partner what he or she expects in terms of physical contact regarding the relationship.Your partner may also be asexual. Asexuality means your partner does not experience sexual attraction or desire. Unlike people who practice abstinence, asexuality is not a choice. It is part of someone's inherent identity and sexual orientation. People who are asexual may experience feelings of attraction without feeling the need to act on those feelings. Many people who are asexual engage in romantic relationships as they have an emotional need for intimacy. However, an asexual person may not want sexual activity to be part of a romantic relationship. If your partner is asexual, he or she may have specific expectations regarding sex in your relationship. Make sure you have a discussion about those expectations going into the relationship.;
, When discussing sex, virginity, and relationship expectations, make sure to listen your partner. You want to make sure you understand what your partner needs and wants out of your relationship. Therefore, practice active listening when discussing expectations with your partner.


Active listening is a manner of listening designed to promote mutual understanding. When listening actively, give your partner your full attention. Use non-verbal cues, like nodding on occasion, to show you are listening. Focus on what your partner is saying rather than formulating your next response in your mind.Repeat your partner's words back when he or she finishes talking. You want to make sure you are completely understanding of what is being said. If you misinterpreted something, your partner can help clarify for you.If you are not a virgin and your partner is, it's important to listen. Your partner may feel intimidated by your sexual history as things may feel unbalanced to him or her.You want to make it clear you respect the fact your partner is a virgin and want him or her to feel as comfortable as possible in the relationship.
 Talking about sexual history can be complicated. While you may feel curious about certain aspects of your partner's past, he or she may not want to share everything with you. Boundaries in a relationship are personal and subjective.


Your partner may not want to answer certain questions regarding his or her virginity. Conversely, if you have a sexual history, your partner may be uncomfortable hearing about it. While communication is important, if your partner is not comfortable with certain topics, be respectful.
Do not push your partner to have a particular discussion prematurely. Allow the relationship to progress at a pace that's comfortable for both of you., If your partner is a virgin, physical intimacy may come slowly. It's vital that you respect your partner's wants and needs. Even if you're eager to get physically intimate, make sure you do not push your partner to engage in any form of physical contact before he or she is ready. Always ask your partner if something is okay before engaging in a new form of physical intimacy. Be respectful of the answer your partner gives. If the answer is no, stop.

