 Some people just have more trouble remembering them than other people. If you're one of those people, it can help to tell yourself you're going to remember it before you go to sleep. It may seem silly, but this conscious step can help signal your mind to remember.It may take a few weeks for this process to work.In fact, you likely dream an average of 5 times a night if you're getting your recommended 8 hours of sleep.;
, When possible, skip the alarm clock. If you want to remember your dream, you need to wake up after REM sleep. An alarm clock can interrupt your sleep cycle at the wrong time. In addition, if you move or hear noise, it can cause your dream to disappear. When you hear the alarm clock, it's loud, and you probably lean over to turn it off immediately. Skipping the alarm clock allows you to wake up more gradually and without the added sensory input., People who don't sleep as soundly remember more dreams. That's because they naturally wake up multiple times per night, often when they are coming out of a sleep cycle.If you take a pill to sleep soundly, you might skip it a few nights to see if it helps you remember your dreams.


Always ask your doctor before skipping a medication, especially if it's a prescription.
 Another way to help you remember your dreams is to guzzle water before you go to bed, about 4 glasses. The reason this step can help you remember your dreams is because your full bladder will interrupt your sleep multiple times throughout the night, often right when you're coming out of REM sleep. Since you're waking after REM sleep, you're more likely to remember what you dreamed., Alcohol tends to deter dreaming because it tends to suppress REM sleep. Therefore, to increase your dreams, you should avoid alcohol, especially at night.Antidepressants can also have the same effect, but you should talk to your doctor about the fact that you're not dreaming if you want to change or go off your antidepressant. Don't go off your antidepressants without talking to your doctor first., While getting enough sleep is always best, studies have shown that losing sleep can help you remember your dreams. In fact, you go through a rebound process when you haven't gotten enough sleep, meaning that your dreams will be more intense., Some people have luck focusing on certain foods to increase their dreams. For instance, taking 100 milligrams of vitamin B6 an hour or two before bed could help increase the intensity of your dreams. Another option is eating foods rich in tryptophan, such as chicken, soybeans, turkey, and tuna.Instead of tryptophan-rich foods, try taking a 5-HTP supplement a couple of hours before bed.