 If you do not already have an account with Google My Business, set this up now here. Use the following steps only if you manage businesses with ten or more locations. In all other situations, you'll need to add your businesses one by one using the method above.
 Once logged in, navigate to Google My Business Locations, then to the Import locations screen. Click "Download the template" to download a .csv file and open it with any spreadsheet program.You can also create your own if you follow the same formatting described below. The file format should be .xls, .xlsx, .ods, .csv, .txt, or .tsv.
 You should see a file with the following nine column headers: Store Code, Name, Address Line 1, City, State, Postal Code, Country, Primary Phone, and Primary Category. Place each business location on one row, filling out the information under the appropriate headers. Google provides detailed guidelines on its website, but here are the most important tips:Under Store Code, give each of your business locations a unique identifier. For example, if all of your businesses are coffee shops that share the same name, designate each Store Code as JoeCoffee1, JoeCoffee2, and so on. Avoid special characters and leading or trailing spaces.
Some fields have a 60 character maximum, while others have an 80 character maximum.
If your postal code begins with 0, make sure your spreadsheet formatting does not delete that digit.
You may use the full name of your country, or look up its ISO 3166-1 two-letter country code.
 Save the spreadsheet and return to your browser. Visit your Google My Business locations page. Click the three-line menu icon, then Import Locations, then Select File to Import.Follow the onscreen instructions to fix any spreadsheet errors, preview the data, and "Apply" once everything looks right.
 It's a good idea to wait at least an hour to make sure your changes went through before you start verification. When ready, click the blue verification icon in the top right corner of your business locations page. Fill out every field of this form as accurately as you can. It may take up to a week to verify your businesses.