 Look, then, at the corners and see what, if anything, is fastening the wings (ear pieces) to the rims around the lenses. If you have trouble seeing this area, use a magnifying glass and more lighting.Some plastic frames have the wings (ear pieces) attached by a hinge embedded in the frame, so you will not be able to remove it easily, nor should you try to force it. If this is the case, skip the next step.
Some sunglasses have only the wings (ear pieces) fastened on by screws to the hinge, with the hinge and lens framing portions as one solid piece of plastic. In this event, you should skip to the next method.
If you see the hinge fastened by screws to the frame holding the lens, you can proceed with the next step.;
, You are removing the screw closest to the frame, not the wing (ear piece). Use the screw-driver from an eye glass repair kit. You should only have to do this for the side on the lens you are removing--unless you are doing both.


These frames are very light, so you may want to brace the frame with something, even your free hand or the hand of a helper while you do this.
Most of the screws you encounter will be right-handed—that is, turning the screw counter-clockwise should loosen it and clockwise should tighten it.
Once the screw is out, carefully set it aside. The screws are usually very tiny and easy to lose. It might help to affix the screw to a piece of fairly sticky packing tape. Many eye glass kits come with containers that are handy for storing the screws temporarily.
 At this point the frame and hinge should be separated. If the lens does not pop out on its own, give it an extra push.If you had to skip the step regarding screw-removal from the hinge, keep in mind that you will be putting extra stress on the hinge, so try to avoid grabbing on the wings themselves for the removal process.
Hold the frame so only a couple of fingers are pushing on the frame from the back--perhaps two thumbs.
Make sure the sunglasses are not high off the surface you are working on, and you don't accidentally lift them as you push with slow but gradually increasing pressure on the back of the lens until it falls forward.
Once the lens is out, have a soft-lined, but hard cased container ready to carry them until you determine what you will do with them next.
 Do this until you have a replacement lens ready to install into the frame. This will help avoid the frames getting damaged, and make it less likely you will lose the original fastener.


Make sure the hinge where the frame and wing meet is lined up properly.
Many eye glass kit screwdrivers are magnetic at the tips, so this can assist in keeping the screw lined up at the hinge's opening.
Standard technique should mean a clockwise motion will tighten the screw.
Hold the frame and wing together at the hinge with one hand or assistance while you use the kit screwdriver to complete the process.
 You will need to consult with your optometrist if a new prescription lens is necessary. Proper fitting of a replacement lens may require the services of an eyeglass shop.