


If the laundry basket is too narrow for the wearer to slip on, you may also need to cut a straight line down the back. The basket will keep its shape, but you will be able to spread it apart enough to slip on if needed.
If you cannot find a round laundry basket, you could also use a large, plastic, bucket-shaped toy tub.;
, Hook two white suspenders to the top of the basket and adjust them so that they can cross over the wearer's shoulders.


You could also tie two cords or heavy-duty ribbons to the basket to mimic straps.
If using a solid plastic toy tub, use a hot glue gun to glue the straps in place.
 Each fold should be about 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) wide.


Measure the height and circumference of the basket before proceeding. The board you use should be at least as tall as the basket and three times as long as the circumference. If using standard size poster board, you may need to use 5 to 6 sheets.
Staple the sheets of poster board together as you fold them. If possible, hide the staples inside the folds.
You could also use heavy foil-based wrapping paper instead of poster board.
Make an accordion fold by taking your first section of poster board and folding it over the remaining board. Make another section that is equal in width, but fold the board in the opposite direction so that the end of the board is still visible. Continue on in this pattern until the entire board is folded.
 Use a hot glue gun to adhere the folded board onto the basket. Draw a line of glue onto each inside fold of the board and press it to the basket to fix it in place.


Instead of using glue, you could also attach the the board by punching small holes 2 inches (5 cm) away from the top and bottom of the folded board. Punch the holes on the inner folds to conceal them. Loop pipe cleaners or craft wire through these holes and around the cross bars of the basket.



The color you use will depend on the type of "frosting" you want your cupcake to have. Use white tights for vanilla, brown tights for chocolate, and pink tights for strawberry.
Cut the legs off in a straight line, not at an angle.
For taller children and adults, you may need to use three pairs of tights.
 Stuff each cut leg with batting or polyfill stuffing. Knot the open ends.


Pack the tights so that they feel full, but not so full that they become stiff an unable to mold.
 Use a hot glue gun to adhere the stuffed, sealed ends of the stuffed tights together, positioning them end to end.


You could be left with one long, snake-like tube of stuffed tights.
Let the glue dry.
 Line 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) of the top basket rim with hot glue. Fix one end of the stuffed tights to this spot. Wind the remaining tights tube around the basket's circumference, creating several layers of frosting.


Glue as you go. For every 4 inches (10 cm) or so of your frosting, apply a generous amount of hot glue. Press it in place to secure that section before continuing on with the next.
Create a spiral pattern with the stuffed tights. When it comes time to overlap the tights, apply the hot glue directly to the top of the bottom layer.
Gradually position each layer of frosting further in, giving it a stacked appearance. The top layer should be snug against the wearer's body, but the wearer should still be able to slip it over his or her head.
 Cut small rectangles out of felt or snip numerous pipe cleaners or plastic straws into small sections.


Use multi-colored materials for rainbow sprinkles or dark brown materials for chocolate sprinkles.
Attach the sprinkles to the frosting using a hot glue gun.
Position the sprinkles in randomized, scattered directions. Do not arrange the sprinkles to face the same direction since this will not look appropriately cupcake-like.
 Wear a red knit cap and use hot glue to attach a red pipe cleaner to the uppermost tip.


Bend the pipe cleaner slightly so that it looks like the stem of a cherry.
 Dress in tights and a sweatshirt.


The tights and sweatshirt should match the color of the frosting. If you used white frosting, then wear white clothes. If you used chocolate frosting, wear brown clothes.
Alternatively, you could wear flesh-tone tights instead of colored tights. Wear short running shorts above the tights, checking to make sure that they do not extend past the bottom of the cupcake costume wrapper.
You could also trade the sweatshirt for a tank top or sleeveless shirt.
 Wear shoes that match your tights, if possible.


Wear plain sandals or flats. Avoid elaborately decorated shoes.
If you cannot match your shoes to your tights, simply select the simplest pair of shoes you can find.
