 Learning all you can about your mental health condition can help you correct misconceptions. When you are properly educated on the scientific basis of mental illness, you are better equipped to handle the ignorance you may hear. Closing the knowledge gap and educating yourself and others is at the root of fighting stigma.Seek out reputable information from sources like the National Institute of Mental Illness, the American Psychological Association, and PsychCentral.
Ask your doctor or therapist for additional information such as pamphlets or recommended readings.;
, Although you might try to act like you don’t need additional assistance at school or work, you are only hurting yourself by turning it down. Allowing yourself to be open and vulnerable about your needs is a form of confidence and self-acceptance. When you accept needed services, you allow others to help and get to know you.Plus, by accepting any accommodations you need, you ensure that you are able to function as best you can to lead a productive life.
 Some people prefer to drastically separate their conditions from their identities. On the contrary, others prefer to be addressed or described by their conditions. There are many ways of assimilating your mental illness into your overall identity. The choice is yours as to how you want to be addressed by others.

Keep in mind that by labeling yourself with your condition, you may start to see yourself as overpowered by your condition, instead of seeing your condition as a small part of who you are. Other people may also do the same. This is one way that stigma may begin.
Some people with mental illness opt to separate themselves from their diagnosis by dropping phrases like “I am depressed/anorexic/bipolar.” Instead, you may say, “I have depression/anorexia/bipolar.”Then again, some people choose to strongly embrace and identify with their mental health conditions. If you view your mental illness as an inherent and important part of who you are, you might prefer identity-first language. This language uses the mental illness as an identifier much like being "athletic" or "Muslim". You may prefer that people describe you as a "schizophrenic person" or a "bipolar individual."How you identify with your illness is a personal choice. Be sure to let those around you know your preferences so that you are described in the way you are most comfortable.
 This is easier said than done—but try not to take negative perceptions personally. When you take stigma personally, you affirm others’ beliefs by playing into it. You may become defensive, loud, or angry, which only weakens your argument. Instead stay calm and remember that just because they said it doesn’t make it true.