 Citizenship in Australia can be by birth, descent, or conferral. This means that you will need to weigh your options. Do you qualify for any of these categories? Try consulting the Australian government's online resources.


Visit the government's Citizenship Wizard at https://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Citi/Appl/Citizenship-wizard to begin. This simple questionnaire will help you determine what pathways – if any – are open to you. Work through the pathways online.
You may qualify to apply immediately or even already be a citizen. In this case you would either be eligible by birth or descent. That is, you would qualify because you were born in Australia or meet other specific criteria.;
, Write down the recommendations you find on government websites as well as the forms you’ll need to fill out. Print out the necessary forms if you can apply for citizenship now and get the ball rolling. Make sure to collect documents along the way. You may need to prove things like your parents' citizenship or permanent residency or even the times that they lived in Australia. If you were born in Australia, you may also need to prove that you spent a period of two or more years in the country.


If you don’t have this information on record, you can request birth certificates, citizenship records and other official info from local Australian government offices.
Legally accepted documents for proving citizenship include passports, birth certificates issued in Australia, naturalization certificates, and certificates of citizenship by descent., If you cannot apply for citizenship immediately, you will need to work toward permanent residency in order to be eligible. An immigration lawyer can help you determine the best strategy for achieving citizenship within the next four years. Keep in mind that this will not be a cheap process, though. Visa fees range from $3,600 for employer sponsored workers to over $6,000 for spousal sponsorships and are listed on the Government's website at https://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Visa/Fees/. Lawyer fees will add to even more.
 If you were born in Australia between 1949 and 1986, you probably already have citizenship. During that time Australia gave it automatically at birth based on the legal principle of jus soli. If born in Australia after 1986, however, it gets more complicated. In that case everything depends on whether at least one of your parents was a citizen or permanent resident.Jus soli applied even if your parents were visitors or foreigners. With a few exceptions, anyone born in Australia between 1949 and 1986 acquired citizenship automatically at birth., Since 1986, you become a citizen so long as you are born in Australian territory and at least one of your parents is an Australian citizen or permanent resident on your birth.If born overseas to at least one Australian citizen parent, you do not get citizenship automatically but are eligible to apply for it through descent.If born overseas to an Australian permanent resident parent, you are NOT eligible to apply for citizenship through descent., This is another way that you may already have gotten citizenship through birth., If you qualify for citizenship by birth, all you need to do is apply for proof of Australian citizenship. This will require you to submit an official application form.Gather up all the documents you need to show where and when you were born, such as a birth certificate, or to show your parents' legal status in Australia.


You will need to get copies of the original documents, certified by an Australian citizen who is not related to you by birth.Then send off the completed application with all supporting documents and fees.
 If you have at least one parent who was an Australian citizen at the time or your birth, but you do not meet the other criteria for citizenship by birth, you can claim citizenship through descent. For example, you can apply for citizenship if you were born overseas to Australian parents and the said parents spent at least two years of their lives in Australia.To claim citizenship by descent, your parents cannot have a citizen or national of another country.If over 18, you will also have to show that you are of “good character.” This judgement is made on the basis of your past criminal record, but also on whether the government deems you to be a risk to safety, security, and stability in Australia., You will again need to prove that you are eligible for this pathway. This will include proof of your identity, proof of your parents' Australian citizenship, and a character assessment covering your employment history, education, criminal background, and military serviceMake sure to follow the government's instructions carefully.
 Depending on whether you are applying online or by mail, you will have to either scan your documents or have them certified by an Australian citizen not related to you by birth, marriage, or “de facto” relationship.”, Your citizenship will start on the date that the application is approved and there is no need for you to attend a citizenship ceremony., You can work toward residency in several ways, including through skilled migration, spousal sponsorship, employer sponsored migration, or school. Once you have legal residency, you can eventually apply for full citizenship in Australia. An immigration lawyer can tell you what visa is best for your situation.


Australia currently detains anyone caught in the country without a visa and processes undocumented asylum seekers in Papua New Guinea. It also limits refugees to temporary 3 to 5 year visas. Refugees are not eligible for permanent residency., In 2013/14 Australia had 128,550 slots for immigrants with skilled occupations.Check the current list of skilled jobs to see whether you fit under one of the 188 different occupations. You may be able to use this to gain residency and, eventually, citizenship for your family as well.


For this type of visa you will need to submit a skills test. There is also an English language requirement., Another way to apply for residency is to have a company hire you and nominate you for a visa. The employer has to verify that they have a job for at least two years for you, and, if accepted, you will be required to spend at least two years in that position.Be aware, again, of age, skill, and language requirements for this stream.
 If you are married to an Australian citizen or permanent resident, they are entitled to sponsor you as an immigrant. You will need to submit two separate forms for this application - one for the sponsor and one for you - as well as documents to prove your identity, attest your relationship, and show that your spouse can meet his obligations as a sponsor. You will therefore have to provide certified copies of your passport and birth certificate, bank statements (your spouse must be able to support you for two years), a criminal background check, and even "evidence" of your relationship like letters, photos, emails, and joint bills., Still another way to gain residency is to come initially as a student. Students can oftentimes remain in Australia after their studies end and become residents. Research the best fit from your home country, in order to find a program of study that will last at least two years. As with work visas, your school will need to sponsor you.
 The graduate visa is a sort of bridge to permanent residency. It is valid for 18 months and allows you to gain the 12 months of full-time experience needed to qualify for skilled migration. Alternately, it can allow you to find a sponsor employer.You must apply for the graduate visa within six months of finishing your program. You also cannot be more than 50 years old.
 After completing your graduate program or holding a job for two years in Australia, you can apply for a permanent skilled migration visa. You must be able to show that you worked for at least 12 months during this time., You are eligible to become a citizen if you have lived in Australia for at least four years and have been lived a permanent resident for at least one year. You must also have been physically present in Australia for three out of the last four years, be of “good character” (i.e. minimal criminal record), and understand the duties of citizenship like following the law, voting, paying taxes, and, if need be, defending the country.Use the the government's Residence Calculator at http://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Ente/Retu/residence-calculator/ to see if you meet these requirements.
 Absences from the country cannot be greater than three months. Also, be sure that you have not been out of the country for longer than 12 months during the previous four years., If you've followed this path, you will be eligible under the “Migrant with Permanent Residence” stream.Seek help from an immigration lawyer to navigate the necessary documentation.
 You will need to provide documents to the Australian authorities that prove your identity, show any links between other names in your application, and demonstrate your good character. These include your photo and signature, your current address, proof of identity like a birth certificate or passport, and criminal background check certificates. These documents must be originals., Once you have passed the initial application process, you can sit for the citizenship test. This is a 20-question multiple-choice test taken in English, in which you will be asked about Australia, its people, government and law, and democratic beliefs and values. Study for the test using the book recommended by the government: Australian Citizenship: Our Common Bond.You will receive word if you’ve met the requirement and your citizenship has been accepted. You will then be inducted as a citizen during an official ceremony.


Not everyone has sit for this test, including minors, people over age 60, or people with physical handicaps.

