 Follow a packing list to keep you focused and to avoid adding anything that isn't needed on your trip. This will help to keep down weight and ensure more space.
 Choose several quality basics (jacket, pants, suit skirt, dress, jeans) for your travel wardrobe. Match these with some interchangeable items, such as t-shirts, lightweight skirts, shirts, cardigan, etc. Try to keep the number of clothing items around 9 to 15, all capable of being mixed and matched together, allowing you a wide range of different outfits from the base core.

Do an image search online for "travel wardrobe"; you'll see a visual display of many mix-and-match travel wardrobes that show how to use just a few clothes to make many weeks of differing outfits. Remember––it is often easier when you're traveling, precisely because you don't have your larger at-home wardrobe confusing you!

, As much as possible, roll clothes before adding them to the suitcase. This makes the clothing more compact and it can also guard against wrinkles and creases.


Do an experiment between laying clothes out flat and packing them rolled. You'll notice the space difference immediately.
 You can experiment on how to add larger or smaller rolls in spare spaces as required. In the end, you should find that a lot more clothing fits in neatly rolled than would piled in.
 For example, tip the amount of shampoo and conditioner you need into small travel-size bottles. Remove packaging from new items; you don't need to carry that with you., The configuration used in a shoebox is good because the shoes are compact, unlike the sprawled packing of shoes shown in this image.


If your suitcase or bag has shoe holders, try to fit two pairs of shoes per holder, one thinner pair with a larger pair. This won't always work but if it does, it keeps the shoes more compact.
Take as few pairs of shoes as possible. Always prefer shoes that can do double-duty, such as night and day wear, walking and casual wear, etc. Take socks instead of slippers.
 For example, stuff things inside of your shoes, such as rolled up socks and underwear, shampoo bottles or medications.
 Vacuum-seal bags that can be done by hand can squish down fabric and soft items that you don't want taking up space. The downside is often wrinkles though, so bear that in mind before using these bags., This sounds trite but when your mind is telling you "what if" as you pack, you can end up with a lot of useless, excess items. Remember that a lot of things can be bought as you travel, and you can make double use of many things, such as clothes and electronic items (for example, a phone can be used as an alarm, a communications device, a time-teller, a note-keeper, a holder of scanned documents, a camera, etc.).,