 Practicing deep breathing techniques can help quell negative self-talk, increase optimism, and help you control and regulate your emotions.Incorporate breathing exercises into your daily routine to help you build a positive self-image and to prevent you from underestimating your abilities.You can set an alarm on your phone for one or more times per day to remind yourself to do this.


Take a slow, deep breath in through your nose and hold for ten counts. Exhale slowly through your mouth, and wait a few seconds before taking another deep breath., Starting each day with a positive outlook can help you stop underestimating your abilities. Self-soothing practices like meditation can help ease depression, pain, and anxiety.In addition, mediation can help calm your critical inner voice, dispel negative thoughts, and help you build self-confidence.Set aside time each day to meditate and focus on the present moment.


There are lots of free guided meditations available online that you can try.
 Practicing yoga may help you control your anxieties and slow your negative thoughts. Yoga has been shown to reduce the body’s stress responses, which may help alleviate self-doubt.Try doing yoga at home regularly or find a class in your neighborhood.
 Eating a healthy, wholesome diet can help influence your physical, emotional, and mental well-being. Fuel your body with a wide range of vitamins and nutrients by eating fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.Diets rich in these nutritious foods can help reduce anxiety and depression, decrease stress levels, and improve your overall mental outlook.Reduce processed foods, fried foods, saturated fats, and sugar from your diet as much as possible.Reserve half of your plate for vegetables and fruits. Fill one quarter of your plate filled with lean proteins, like baked chicken or fish, and reserve the remaining quarter for whole grains like whole wheat pasta, quinoa, or brown rice.If you are stressed out, avoid drinking caffeine. Caffeine may increase cortisol, which influences your stress levels.It may be more difficult to defeat negative self-talk when you are stressed.
Stay hydrated and drink plenty of water. An adult who lives in a temperate climate should have around 9 to 13 cups (2.2 to 3 liters) of hydrating beverages each day., Exercise is not only beneficial for your physical health, but it is important for your mental and emotional health, too. Exercise can help alleviate the symptoms of anxiety disorders, as well as depression, panic disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder.Leading an active lifestyle may help boost your confidence. Sign up for an exercise class that interests you, or ask a friend to join you on a walk or a run.


It is recommended that the average person engage in 150 minutes of moderate exercise each week, or for 30 minutes for 5 days.Ask your doctor is this is right for you.
Take a brisk walk on your lunch break, swim laps in a pool, or take a yoga or a dance class.
 Being well-rested is essential for physical and emotional health. Frequently not getting enough rest can lead to feeling emotionally vulnerable and having negative thoughts.Aim for seven to nine hours of sleep every night.

