 Perhaps the most time-consuming part of shopping for gluten-free snacks is reading the ingredients list of each item. Unless a product is specifically marked “gluten-free,” it likely contains gluten. Before purchasing, should check for any indications that the food or drink may contain gluten., Gluten is a wheat protein, commonly found in all wheat and grain products and byproducts. So, to buy gluten-free snacks, avoid buying any items with wheat or other grains.Before you buy a snack item, check for barley, durum, farina, graham flour, kamut, rye, matzo meal, semolina, bulgur, triticale, wheat, and spelt on the label.


Stay clear of bread, crackers, cookies, muffins, chips, sweets, snack bars, or other grain products unless they have “gluten-free” on the label.
Dips, dressings, and sauces may also contain gluten unless specifically labeled otherwise.
 Certain starches, sugars, and added flavors may contain gluten, such as malt flavoring or modified food starch.If you’re buying processed food that contains many additives, either look for an unambiguous “gluten free” label on the packaging, or look elsewhere in the store for a similar item with fewer unfamiliar ingredients.
 Foods that are fresh and have not been processed are more likely to be gluten-free. In addition to fresh fruits and vegetables, look for snacks including fresh proteins. Eggs and non-marinated, non-breaded meats are gluten-free. So are many dairy products, including cheese and yogurts, both of which are commonly sold in packaged snack varieties.Foods that have undergone high levels of processing are more likely to include gluten, or to have been processed on machinery that also processed gluten-heavy foods.
 Even if an ingredient label does not specifically list a source of gluten, check for a notice that indicates whether the food has been processed on equipment or in a facility that also produces foods that contain gluten. This should be written somewhere on the packaging, although it may be in quite small lettering.Cross-contamination can make those with wheat allergies or Celiac disease ill even when the food contains very small amounts of gluten transferred from other products.

