 This can be very important to allergy free sleep. There are some fibers and fillings that make great homes for mold, dust mites, and many are difficult to clean. Choose a hypoallergenic fiber fill that is machine washable. Pure wool or silk make excellent choices.


While hypoallergenic material decreases your risk of an allergic reaction, anti-allergy material is aimed at preventing or minimizing your allergic reaction.
You can still have a down comforter but look for a brand that cleans their down with a special process designed to remove allergens. Comforters made of fine threads of cotton, or polyester with a nylon membrane can be very useful, too.
Buy bedding that can withstand frequent washing. Bedding should be washed weekly in hot water with laundry detergent that does not contain fragrances or dyes to ensure removal of allergens. The instructions with your purchase should outline how frequently they can be washed.;
, A pillow is important to comfortably rest your head, but can also leave you waking up with a stuffy nose and watery eyes. Make sure that you choose a pillow that you can put a dust mite encasing on. Natural latex, wool, or silk fills are naturally resistant to dust mites, mold and bacteria but are not typically washable. A natural memory-foam pillow will be naturally resistant to dust mites but can be susceptible to mold and or mildew., The average pore size refers to the size of the openings in the fabric. This can be a good indicator of how likely it is to allow allergens in or keep them out. The smaller the pore size the size, the more allergens will be kept at bay. Membrane bedding offers the best protection for severe allergy sufferers. Many times bedding comes with an inner, non-porous layer that prevents any allergens from getting through. This is also breathable and waterproof bedding and makes a great purchase for chronic allergy sufferers.
Membrane free bedding will block most allergens while at the same time remaining a very breathable material. This will not have the non-porous layer so you will want to pay attention to the pore size to know what types of allergens you are susceptible to. Pet dander is typically 2.5-10 microns, mold spores 10-30 microns, and dust mites 250-300 microns.

