 Gone are the days of minimally comfortable, plastic blow up travel neck pillows. You can now get very comfortable travel neck pillows that can help you sleep in even the most crowded spaces. Take the opportunity to upgrade your current neck pillow to a cushy version that can enhance your travel experience.Consider your specific needs. Do you have neck or back pain? An option that holds your head upright may be best for you. Do you want to be able to move around and not disrupt your fellow passengers? Consider a traditional donut-shaped pillow filled with gel.
Make sure to explore your different options. Getting suggestions from fellow travelers or reading product reviews may give you more insight into specific models.
Think about the pillow’s portability. If you like to travel light or without any awkwardly shaped items that you have to strap to your suitcase, look at the weight and size of each pillow option.;
, Seat location can make a big difference in how comfortable you are—and how you can best use your upgraded pillow. If you are able, choose your seat as soon as you can so that you’re not locked out of a prime spot for sleeping.Select or request a window seat if you can. You may even want to consider paying a bit extra for a window seat to increase your comfort. Window seats have a couple of benefits: they give something on which you can lean and help you avoid people crawling over you to get to the bathroom or for a walk. You can also control the window shade, which may help you sleep better.
Sit near the front of the place if possible. There is generally more noise at the back of the plane because of the place of the engines. However, you may be more likely to get a full row or two seats to yourself towards the back of the plane. This could make up for the extra noise. Ask an attendant at check-in what’s available and change seats to better options if you can.
Avoid bulkheads and exit rows. Although you’ll have extra legroom, you may not be able to recline the seats or move the armrest.
 Depending on what option you purchased, you probably need to blow up your neck pillow. Getting the right amount of air into the pillow can promote your ability to sleep as well as your comfort.Take your pillow of its case and look for the inflation valve. Start to either pump or blow air into the pillow until it is full. Lay back on the pillow to see if it is comfortable.
Open the valve and slowly let out air until it reaches a level with which you’re comfortable. If you want a firmer pillow, add more air.
 Sitting up straight can cause back pain and many people find it difficult to fall asleep in this position. Reclining your seat as far back as you are able will take pressure off of your lower back. It may also contribute to more optimal use of your neck pillow.Be considerate of the person sitting behind you. For example, if you are on a plane and it’s mealtime, only recline your seat a bit or wait until the meal is over. You can always adjust your seat as the situation allows.
 Some may find sleeping with a bulge behind their heads slightly uncomfortable. Your head may also keep falling forward. In either case, think about flipping your neck pillow in the opposite direction to protect your head while keeping your neck aligned., Many neck pillows have some type of stuffing such as beads or gel. Move the stuffing over to your most preferred side of the pillow for added comfort. Tie off the end with a hair tie or another item that will keep the stuffing from shifting., Once you’ve got your seat reclined, it’s time to put your pillow to use. Lie back and close your eyes. If you feel uncomfortable, make adjustments to the pillow’s air until you are able to lie back and relax.Try wedging your pillow in the small space between seats or up against the window.

