 Having a good cleaning and skincare routine is the most important thing you can do to care for oily skin. Gently clean your face twice a day, morning and night, with warm water and soap, or a soapless facial cleanser.Use a gentle cleanser at first, as a harsher cleanser can actually increase oil production.


If a normal cleanser does not reduce the oiliness of your skin, consider a cleanser that includes benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, glycolic acid, or beta hydroxy acid.
Start with a cleanser with benzoyl peroxide. This chemical is used specifically to treat mild to moderate acne.A chemical cleanser like this might lead to side-effects, such as drying, redness and scaling. These effects often recede after the first month of using the cleanser.You may have to try a number of different products to see which one works best for you.Use your hands to clean your face and do not use a washcloth or loofah. Pat your face dry afterwards — do not rub or irritate the skin.;
, If you have oily skin, it is important that you choose cosmetics that will not exacerbate it. Check the labels carefully and always opt for “oil-free” or “water-based” cosmetics.There is some uncertainty about the direct effect of cosmetics on oil production, but heavy makeup may block your pores.If you can go without, try holding off on products like foundation. Keep your makeup minimal (like using mascara and lipstick only) to avoid clogging pores.
 Often people with oily skin will steer clear of moisturizers, thinking that their skin doesn’t need any extra lubrication, but this is not true. Those with oily skin still need to moisturize. Certainly oily moisturizers should be avoided, along with anything that might further clog up your skin. Oil-free moisturizers, however, can help you achieve a balance in your skin.


Vary the amount you apply according to the parts of your face that are oilier or drier.Choose the product carefully, and look for a non-oily non-comedogenic moisturizer.Look for products specifically tailored to those with oily skin. Some cosmetic lines, like Clinique, have different lines for different types of skin, including oily skin.
Avoid any moisturizers that contain lanolin, petrolatum or isopropyl myristate.Look at online reviews for some pointers, and consider a gel moisturizer that has a different texture to lotions., If you have oily skin, you may be tempted to keep washing it throughout the day to tackle the oil build-up. Avoid this temptation, and try to wash your face only in the morning and evening. Washing more often can dry out your skin and cause irritation.


You may try washing your skin once during the day if it is exceptionally oily.You can wash your face more than twice a day if you have been sweating.
 Although the oiliness of your skin is largely genetic and the oil is produced below the surface of the skin, it’s a good idea to be mindful of what touches your skin. If you have greasy hair and it is falling over your face, some of this greasiness will be transferred to your skin.


If you have grubby hands and keep touching your face, you will be spreading the oil around.
Keep your hair and hands clean and off your face.