 Squats are an excellent way to strengthen your quad muscles. Place your feet shoulder-width apart and then lower your pelvis so that your knees are bent. For proper technique your knees should never go past your toes while you are squatting.You can squat using just your body weight or add additional weights.
You can hold free weights in either hand at your side, or use a barbell with extra weight added.
If you are using a barbell, hold the bar across your shoulders and keep your back straight.;
, Deadlifts are one of the best ways to strengthen your hamstrings (back of your thigh) and glutes (butt muscles). To perform a deadlift, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and hold a barbell with your desired weight in front of you with your arms at your side.Then, slowly lower your arms so that the bar is midway down your calf. While you lower the bar make sure that your back remains straight.
Once the bar reaches the mid-calf range pull the bar back up to the rest position using your hips and legs.
 Stand on a slightly raised surface, such as a step or ledge. Place the balls of your feet on the ledge and let your heel hang off the back. Then, lift your body up onto your toes and hold this position for two to three seconds. Next, lower yourself back down slowly taking another two to three seconds.This exercise will strengthen your calves and will lead to muscle growth.
You can perform calf raises using just your body weight, or you can hold free weights for a more intense workout.
 The adductors (inner thigh) and abductors (outer thigh) are stabilizer muscles in the hips. When strengthened they can prevent injury and help with movement in the hips and pelvis. In order to strengthen these muscles, place exercise bands around your ankles, or below or above your knees.

Then, try lifting one leg to the side while the other one remains planted. Repeat with both legs.
Alternatively, you could bend your legs slightly into a squat position and then take small side-steps in one direction. Repeat the exercise while moving in the opposite direction.
 Most of your leg training should rely on free-weights, but you can use the leg curl and leg extension machines to help tone your leg muscles. Do not use too much weight because this could cause muscular imbalance or even petellar tendonitis. Instead, use a low to moderate resistance with high repetition. This will help to give your hamstrings and quads nice definition.