 The flight school only becomes available after you have completed the “Friends Reunited” mission, which occurs fairly early on in the main story. The mission will begin with a cutscene between Trevor and Wade. The two decide to take a road trip to Los Santos to find Michael.;
, Before you drive to Los Santos, Trevor says that he needs to make a stop. Follow the yellow line on your mini map at the bottom left-hand corner of the screen, and you’ll arrive at a trailer park. You’ll have to plant sticky bombs on all the trailers and then detonate them.
 The trailers you need to detonate are marked on your minimap as yellow dot, approach them, and aim by holding down the L2 button (PS3), LT button (Xbox 360) or Right click (PC).
 Equip the sticky bombs by holding down the L1 button (PS3), LB button (Xbox 360), or Tab key (PC). This will bring up the weapon wheel. Use the toggle stick (PS3 and Xbox 360) or directional arrow keys (PC), and move over to the sticky bomb icon, located in the upper right-hand side of the weapon wheel.


Once equipped, press the R2 button (PS3), RT button (Xbox 360), or Left click (PC) to throw the Sticky Bomb. It should adhere to the trailer wall automatically.
 Once you have planted all five of the sticky bombs, detonate them by pressing left on the D-pad (PS3 and Xbox 360) or the G key (PC).
 Once the bombs have detonated, head back to the car (which is marked as a blue dot on your mini map). Then follow the yellow line on the minimap to Los Santos. Once you reach your destination, a cutscene will play, and the mission will be completed, unlocking the Los Santos Flight School.
 The Los Santos Flight School is located inside the Los Santos International Airport. You can reach this location by pressing the Start button (PS3 and Xbox 360) or M key (PC), which will open the world map. Look in the bottom left-hand corner, and you should see a plane icon. While your cursor is over the plane icon, press the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or the Up arrow key (PC), and the flight school will be marked as your destination.
 Follow the purple path on your minimap to reach the airport.
 The entrance to the flight school is located adjacent to the airport itself, up a flight of stairs. Ascend the stairs, and a screen prompt will pop up, asking if you want to begin flight school.
 Select the “Yes” option, and you will be brought to a screen displaying all of the flight school’s courses. Only the first one will be unlocked; you will have to complete it to unlock the next one, and so on.

