 Dealing with emotions can be difficult, as they can change rapidly. But it's important to allow yourself to experience your emotions, as repressing them can cause stress. When you experience an emotion, identify it and acknowledge it.For example, if you are feeling nervous, ask yourself, "What am I afraid of?" Identifying and acknowledging the issue can help you figure out how to handle it.
It's ok to let yourself feel negative emotions. If you are frustrated because you did not get a promotion at work, that's normal. Use that emotion as motivation to find a new way to challenge yourself.
 Sadness is a common emotion, and it is completely normal to feel that way occasionally. If your sadness only lasts a day or two, that is healthy. If you are experiencing prolonged bouts of sadness, it is a good idea to contact your doctor or a mental health specialist. If you are feeling down, you might not feel up for socializing. However, isolation can increase feelings of sadness. Try doing something like running errands or getting a pedicure. You won't have to spend much emotional energy, but you'll get some human contact.
Try tackling a project. You'll take your mind off of whatever is bothering you and the sense of accomplishment will boost your spirits. This is a great time to tackle that photo album you've been meaning to organize.
 Once you have identified your feelings, spend some time thinking about what is causing those emotions. If you are angry at your partner for not putting away the laundry, ask yourself if there is a deeper issue. Are you actually upset because you feel that your requests are not being heard?When you experience intense emotions, reflect on the underlying cause. You can use your journal to aid you in tracking your emotions.
 Self-care is the process of making sure that all of your needs are being met. It is extremely important for your emotional health. Practicing self-care can be as simple as making sure that you allow yourself time to do things you enjoy, such as reading a chapter of a book each day.Care for yourself by nurturing those relationships that are important to you. Even when you are busy, allow yourself time to take a break and have fun with friends.
Give yourself permission to do something for yourself each day. It can be as simple as treating yourself to a piece of dark chocolate after dinner.
 In order to fully be able to manage your emotions, you need to have a support system. A support system is essential for your emotional well-being. When you are dealing with stress or other intense emotions, make sure that you have a friend or family member to talk to.Use technology. If you live far away from your family, spend time talking on the phone or video chatting.
 Talking to a mental health specialist is a great way to process emotions and learn to handle them. If your emotions are interfering with your day to day life, you should consider seeking help from a professional. For example, if your sadness is causing you to call in sick to work, or you can't seem to handle simple tasks, you may need help.If your emotions cause you to verbally abuse others, or you regularly feel out of control, a professional can help you make changes.
Ask your doctor to recommend a counselor. You can also ask a trusted friend or family member for advice.

