 Wash and peel four large carrots. Make sure to scrub the carrots clean. Then remove the peels with a vegetable peeler. If you do not have large carrots, wash and peel about eight small or medium sized carrots. Altogether you will need enough for four cups of grated carrots.;
, Use a cheese grater with bigger slots to coarsely grate the carrots. You may also use a food processor. However, do not let them turn into a paste in the food processor. One large carrot equals roughly one cup of grated carrot. If you do not have large carrots, use a measuring cup and grate until you have four cups.
 You can buy these pods from a grocery store with a large selection like Whole Foods. The pods are usually wrapped in cellophane and near the spice or produce section. Open the pods with your fingers, and remove the seeds.
 Use a rolling pin, a mortar and pestle, or the blunt end of a cooking utensil to crush the cardamom seeds. On a cutting board, press down firmly on the seeds with your instrument until the seeds break. Crush two or three times more, until the largest chunks are broken up a bit.You do not need to continue crushing the seed. The seeds only need to be crushed enough to release their flavor. In fact, some recipes use whole seeds.
 If you bought the whole nuts, open the shells with your fingers. Then on a cutting board, chop the nuts until they are in 3-5 pieces. Chop the nuts until you have about ¼ cup. They will be used as a garnish for your halwa once it is prepared. Place them in a bowl, and put them to the side.
 Get out a larger, high-sided skillet or saucepan. Pour the oil or ghee in, and turn up the heat to medium-high. You will know the oil or ghee is hot enough when you sprinkle water on it and it makes a hissing noise. Use a heavy-bottom pan if you have one. These higher quality skillets will distribute the heat more evenly. Your mixture will be less likely to burn if you use use a heavy-bottom skillet.
Ghee is a form of clarified butter.It can be found at Whole Foods or in most Indian or international supermarkets.
A neutral cooking oil is one that doesn't give a particular flavor to the dish. For instance, you can also use corn oil, peanut oil, or canola oil for this dish. , Keep the heat at medium-high. Mix the cardamom in the oil with your cooking spoon. Let it cook for about half a minute or until you can smell its fragrance.
 Keep the heat at medium high. Stir the carrots in with the cardamom. Let the mixture cook for 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. , Bring the milk mixture up to a boil. Once the mixture is at a boil, turn down the heat to medium. Cook the mixture for 5 minutes. Stir the whole time the mixture is boiling. After five minutes, turn the heat down to low, and let the halwa simmer for about an hour. Check the halwa and stir occasionally. By the end of the hour, a good amount of the liquid in the mixture should have evaporated.
 Take your index finger and thumb and grab a little pinch of saffron. Add it to the mix. Cook the mixture for 20 more minutes. Cook until the mixture is thick and shiny. , Eat the halwa with spoons. You may want to allow the halwa to cool for a couple of minutes. Halwa can be served warm or cool.


To cool the halwa, scoop it into a bowl that will fit in your refrigerator. Cover the bowl with saran wrap and place in the refrigerator. Let it cool in the refrigerator for three to four hours before serving.
 Enjoy your Indian dessert with friends or family. 