 This is single best way to cut calories. Gradually downsize from your standard size order to a smaller one. If you are at home, start making your drink with smaller mugs and put away the oversized ones. If you are out, look at the menu or ask your barista about the smallest drink size available.


Some places offer more conservative serving sizes upon request. For example, at Starbucks you can order a Short, which is smaller than a Tall and totals 8 ounces. This switch can save you 50 calories off your standard latte order., Instead of a larger beverage, go for a tiny action-packed coffee instead. Espresso, for example, logs in at only 6 calories. It won’t take you long to drink but it will provide an energy boost. You will also appreciate the flavor as it is the foundation of many coffee-house beverages., Take the extra time to measure the amounts of creamer, sweetener, or milk before putting them in your coffee cup. Keep a teaspoon, tablespoon, and small measuring cup on your counter for convenience. Consult the serving sizes on the packages to determine how much to add.This practice is also helpful in that it makes you more aware of what you are consuming. You have choices in your beverages and can lower the amounts of add-ons if you want even more benefits.
 For some people the best option is to move away from the specialty drinks and choose straight black coffee instead. It is easy to make and cheaper to buy. You will get the energy benefits and still be able to participate in the ‘ritual’ of visiting the local coffeehouse.If the taste is simply too bold for your liking you can try cold brew iced coffee. You will receive the same health benefits with a sweeter taste. These drinks are also notably low in calories. For example, a Grande cold brew iced coffee at Starbucks comes it at 5 calories., Hydration can keep you from overeating and it can also prevent you from downing too many calorically-dense beverages. At one point in the day when you typically go for a coffee refill head to the water cooler instead. Try different times for this switch to see what will work the best for you.The standard coffee-drinker consumes 3 cups a day leaving plenty of room to eliminate one refill., If you are looking for a flavorful replacement, you might want to experiment with teas. They are available to order right alongside coffees at most restaurants. They take about as long to make if you are at home. And, they can closely imitate the flavor of coffee. For example, test out a green tea with steamed milk as a low calorie alternative., The message here is to be wary of the seasonal coffees. They have a tendency to include more syrups, flavorings, etc. Eggnog is high in both fat and sugar content, making it a dangerous add-on to a more traditional drink. Instead, choose a drink spiced with nutmeg or cinnamon.