 You can purchase kombucha tea from the grocery store – the kind you would usually drink – or try brewing your own at home. Either way, try using kombucha tea as a facewash twice a day instead of a store-bought cleanser. Simply splash it onto your face, over the sink, like you would when washing with water.This may be an inexpensive alternative to pricey fermented skin care products.


You can also try using the SCOBY as a facemask (the kombucha “mother,” or Symbiotic Culture of Bacteria and Yeast – that slimy-looking glob in the tea). Apply it evenly to your skin, let it sit for 10-15 minutes, and rinse it off with cool or lukewarm water. It’ll feel sticky and slimy while on, but not afterwards. Keep a towel handy – this can be messy!, Sea kelp ferment, or sea kelp BioFerment, is a fermented kelp extract. Visit your local health food store to see if they have any available. If not, shop online at a reputable site to obtain some.Use this ingredient as a base for moisturizing lotion or a skin serum that you make at home, or mix it into a product you already have.


Look for whatever fermented ingredient you want to use – botanicals like fermented aloe and dandelion can be found in health food stores or online, as can other natural products like fermented soy and ginseng.
 Add your product – sea kelp ferment, for instance – to some plain yogurt (the probiotic kind with live cultures). Apply this as a facemask and let it sit for 20-30 minutes. Wash it off with cool water, and moisturize afterwards with your regular moisturizing lotion.You can also blend the ingredients in a blender for a smoother consistency.


To make your mask more hydrating, add 2 teaspoons of a high-quality olive oil for every 1 tablespoon of plain Greek yogurt. Massage this onto your skin then wipe it off with a warm, damp washcloth right away. This is especially good for dry skin.
 Mix 2 parts sour cream to 2 parts honey and 1 part apply cider vinegar or lemon juice, plus your special fermented ingredient. Wash your face with your regular face wash then apply this mask, and let sit for 20 minutes. Rinse with cool water.


You can do this twice a week to possibly brighten, tighten, exfoliate, and moisturize your skin.
 Gather ½ cup of shea butter and 2 tablespoons olive oil, jojoba oil, or almond oil. Heat the shea butter on the stove on medium heat until it melts, and add the oil. Place it in the freezer for 15-20 minutes to cool (don’t let it freeze). Once it’s solid, take it out and add your fermented ingredient. Whisk everything together until it has the texture of whipped cream. You can use this on your hands, body, or face!You may need to chop or puree your ingredient so that it can be blended into the shea and oil mixture.

