 Expectorant herbs thin out mucus, which helps loosen congestion. Readily available herbs that function as expectorants include:


Eucalyptus
Elecampane (Inula)
Slippery Elm
Fennel seed
Camphor
Garlic
Hyssop
Lobelia
Mullein
Thyme
Spearmint
Ginger
Cayenne pepper and black pepper
Mustard seedDo not take Eucalyptus or peppermint oil by mouth.
Some of these herbs, like Lobelia, can be toxic is you ingest too much. Talk to a doctor before using Lobelia.If you are pregnant, check with a physician before using any of these herbs. Some may cause side effects.
Check with a physician before giving herbs to children. You also should check with a physician before ingesting herbs if you are taking medications.
Some of these herbs may cause allergic reactions. Test out the herb by taking a small dosage before taking it.
 Herbal teas are helpful with loosening phlegm. They also don’t contain caffeine, which can increase mucus production. Tea not only helps loosen congestion because it is a warm fluid, but you can also add expectorant herbs to increase the loosening of mucus in the chest. Chamomile and lemon teas are good for phlegm, and peppermint, spearmint, and ginger herbs are great for teas.


Take one teaspoon of dried herb, or three teaspoons of fresh herb, and steep in one cup of boiled water. Let it steep for five to 10 minutes. Drink multiple cups a day.
You can add some honey and lemon to taste. Cayenne pepper, garlic, mustard seed, black pepper, and onions tend to be the strongest and can be somewhat irritating, so drink these teas slowly.
If you are giving these teas to a child, cut the amount of herb by ½ or increase to two cups of water.
 Essential oils and expectorant herbs can be inhaled to help with cough. Inhaling them help loosen mucus.You can crush and boil the herbs in a pot so you can inhale them, or place them in a diffuser. The easiest way may be to get the herbs in the form of essential oils. You can place the essential oils in a burner, place them in warm water, or place them in a diffuser.


You can also inhale a cloth soaked in the herb. You can either soak it in the essential oils or in the water where you boiled the herb.
Use this in moderation as inhaling too much of any substance can severely irritate the lungs.

