 Fill the water reservoir with undiluted vinegar. Brew the vinegar through the machine.


This process is also known as descaling and should be done every 3 to 6 months. Descaling the brewer removes excess grime sticking to the inside of the brewer. If left alone, this grime came have a serious negative impact on the brewer's ability to heat up and function properly.
Place a ceramic mug on the drip tray to catch the vinegar that brews through the machine.
Do not use a K-Cup while performing the vinegar rinse.
If using a mini model, fill the water reservoir with 10 oz (300 ml) of undiluted white vinegar. Lower the brewer handle after 5 seconds and press the blue "Brew" button. It should turn red and begin brewing the vinegar through the machine.
If using a standard-size model, pour 48 oz (1500 ml) into the water reservoir and press the "Brew" button. Allow the contents to brew into the mug below.
Discard the warm, dispensed vinegar by dumping it down the sink.
 Repeat the initial vinegar rinse, but allow the vinegar to sit for a period of time in order to descale the machine more thoroughly.


Place the same ceramic mug used in the first vinegar rinse on the drip tray.
Do not use a K-Cup.
If using a mini model, lower the brewer handle 5 seconds after adding 10 oz (300 ml) of white vinegar to the water reservoir. Press the "Brew" button, and power the machine down once it starts to dispense the vinegar. Allow the rest of the vinegar to sit in the brewer for 30 minutes before powering it back on and pressing the "Brew" button to finish the brewing cycle. Discard the hot, dispensed vinegar by pouring it into the sink.
For standard-size models, add 48 oz (1500 ml) of white vinegar to the water reservoir and press the "Brew" button as usual. Once "Add Water" is indicated, pause the process and allow the vinegar to sit in the brewer for 4 hours while the machine is still on. Dump the remaining vinegar after this time.
 Run clean water through a brewing cycle to rinse away any vinegar residue.

Place a ceramic mug in the drip tray to catch any dispensed water.
Do not add a K-Cup to the machine.
Fill the water reservoir with fresh, cold water. For mini models, use 10 oz (300 ml) of water. For standard-size models, use 48 oz (1500 ml) of water.
Press the "Brew" button and allow the brew cycle to run as usual. Discard the hot brewed water by pouring it down the sink afterward.
Repeat the cold water rinse up to three more times to remove any remaining vinegar taste.

