 The most frequent areas for herniated disks are in the lower spine and the neck. If your herniated disk is in your lower back, then you will probably have pain in your legs. If the herniated disk is in your neck, then your shoulder and arm will probably hurt. Symptoms include:Pain in your limbs. The pain may become more intense when you cough, sneeze, or move in certain ways.
Numbness or feelings of pins and needles. This occurs when the nerves that run to that extremity are affected by the herniated disk.
Weakness. If your lower back is affected you may be more likely to trip and fall. If your neck is affected, you may have difficulty carrying heavy items.;
, The doctor will do a medical exam to determine exactly where your pain comes from. The doctor will likely ask about your medical history including any recent injuries. The doctor may also test your:Reflexes
Muscle strength
Coordination, balance, and ability to walk
Sense of touch. The doctor may test whether you feel light touches or vibrations on various different areas of your body.
Ability to raise your leg or move your head. These movements stretch the spinal nerves. If you get increased pain, numbness, or pins and needles, it may suggest that a disk is herniated.
 These tests can be used to exclude other possible causes of your pain and to let the doctor see exactly what is happening to your disks. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or think you could be pregnant because it may influence which tests the doctor recommends.An X-ray. Your doctor may ask you to get an X-ray to verify that your pain is not caused by an infection, tumor, broken bone, or misalignment of the bones in your spine. The doctor may also suggest a myelogram with the X-ray. This involves putting dye into your spinal fluid which will show up on an X-ray. It helps the doctor see where disks might be pressing on your nerves.
A computerized tomography scan (CT scan). During a CT scan you will lie on a table that moves into the scanner. The scanner will take sequential X-rays of the area of interest. The doctor may ask you to hold your breath briefly to make sure the picture will be clear. It will not hurt, but you may be asked to fast for a few hours before the test or be given a contrast dye beforehand. The test will probably take about 20 minutes or less. This test can help the doctor determine exactly which disks are affected.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). An MRI scanner uses magnets and radio waves to create pictures of your body. An MRI is especially useful for determining exactly which disk has herniated and what nerves it might be pressing on. This test does not hurt, but requires that you lie on a table that will slide into the scanner. The scanner will make loud noises and you will probably get earphones or earplugs to wear. It may take up to an hour and a half.This is the most sensitive imaging test, but also the most expensive.
 If the doctor is concerned that you may have damage to your nerves, you may be asked to get nerve conduction tests and an electromyogram.During the nerve conduction tests the doctor may administer a small electrical pulse to determine if it is correctly conveyed to specific muscles.
During the electromyogram, the doctor inserts a thin needle into your muscle to measure the electrical pulses that arrive.
Both procedures may be uncomfortable.

