 In Scotland, being declared bankrupt is called “sequestration.” Before you can apply for bankruptcy, you should meet with a money adviser. They can discuss alternatives to bankruptcy.


The Scottish government recommends you contact National Debtline Scotland for advice.Their website is available here: https://www.nationaldebtline.org/S/Pages/default.aspx.
 You can only apply for bankruptcy in Scotland if you currently live in Scotland or have lived in the country during the past year. You also cannot have been declared bankrupt during the past five years., There are three ways to qualify as bankrupt in Scotland. One way is to prove you have minimal assets. You will qualify if the following is true:Your debts must be between £1,500-17,000.
You don’t own any land or buildings.
You own no asset worth more than £1,000. Your car is excluded if it is worth £3,000 or less.
Your total assets (excluding household items like furniture) is not more than £2,000.
After you pay essential bills, you don’t have any money left over to pay creditors.
You haven’t had a MAP bankruptcy in the past 10 years or any other bankruptcy in the past five years.
You have a valid certificate for sequestration.
 If you don’t qualify under MAP, you can still file if you are apparently insolvent. To be insolvent means you can’t pay your debts as they become due. You will qualify if the following is true:You must be at least £3,000 in debt.
You cannot have been bankrupt within the last five years.
You owe bills you cannot pay. This can occur in a variety of circumstances. For example, you might have received a “charge for payment” and 14 days have passed without paying the debt. Alternately, a creditor might have served you with a statutory demand requiring you to pay a debt within 21 days.
 This certificate confirms you cannot pay your bills as they fall due and is good for 30 days. An authorized person might be any of the following:Insolvency practitioner
money adviser who works at a local council or citizens advice bureau
money adviser employed by an accredited advice agency

, Scotland prefers you apply online. If you meet with a money adviser, they can help you complete the application. If you have no access to the Internet, you should contact the Accountant in Bankruptcy (AiB) for a paper application (phone: 0300 200 2600).Self-employed individuals should contact Business Debtline for help. They can be reached at 0800 197 6026 or on the Internet at www.bdl.org.uk.
If you apply for bankruptcy per MAP rules, you pay a £90 fee.
If you apply using another process, you will pay £200 in fee.
 A trustee administers the bankruptcy. If you file for a MAP bankruptcy, then the AiB will be your trustee. Others who file will either have the AiB or an insolvency practitioner as their trustee. You must meet with your trustee to discuss the following:the trustee explains what their role will be
you will check the details of your application together
the trustee will talk about your obligations during bankruptcy
the trustee can answer any questions you have

, The Accountant in Bankruptcy analyzes your income and decides whether you make more than you need to sustain a reasonable living standard. If you do, then you must contribute some of this surplus to your creditors. Typically, a DCO lasts for four years.You have the right to appeal this decision within 14 days of receiving it. For advice, contact the National Debtline website.
If you have a change in circumstances, then you can ask the trustee to change your DCO or stop it.
 Once you are declared bankrupt, your property is transferred to the trustee. He or she may sell your property and use the proceeds to pay your creditors. For example, you may lose your home if you have equity in it (e.g., the value of your home exceeds any mortgage).If your spouse lives in the home, the trustee will not sell it.
You might own the home jointly with another person. If so, the trustee can only sell the half owned by the bankrupt.
Your trustee can still sell your home even after you receive your bankruptcy discharge, unless the trustee abandons the property and returns it to you.
 Your bankruptcy will write off most unsecured debts. These are debts that aren’t tied to any asset. However, you will still be responsible for some debts, including the following:student loans
debt obtained through fraud
secured loans
court-ordered fines, penalties, compensation, or forfeiture
maintenance payments to an ex-spouse

