 Controlling the amount of light in your house is important for your child or visually impaired child. Consider increasing the amount of light around the house and find ways to make it easier to control for your child. Natural light is usually best for a child with a visual impairments so try to increase the amount of natural light around the house such as adding more windows around the house or using better blinds. You may also want to place lights on the stair case, leave goose-neck lamps around areas your child does activities, make lights easy to switch on and off, and use a variety of lights to help make it easier to see.


It's important to note, however, that too much light is not always a good thing. For some children with albinism, aniridia, or other conditions that cause photophobia, too much light can cause problems. ;
, Eliminating hazards prevents your child from getting hurt when roaming around the house, and makes it easy for them to do daily life tasks. Clean up spills right away, child-proof your storage areas, secure rug edges, keep all electrical outlets covered, ensure the furniture is stable around the house, and keep objects organized and clean. Fix any house hazards that you may have around your home. The floor, windows, countertops, gutters, roof, cupboards, drawers, pipes, and carpet should all be in check. There should be no cracks, holes, or loose placements in your house as this can cause an accident. Make sure everything is in check daily to ensure that there isn't something that could leave your child getting hurt. , Glare is unnecessary light that is caused by sunlight or light from a lamp, and can make it difficult for a blind or visually impaired child to see physically. Reduce the amount of glare around the house by placing mini blinds on the windows, covering shiny tabletops, turning the TV screen away, only painting rooms with a matt finish, and avoiding waxing the floors. , A color contrast is the difference between two colors and makes it easy for blind and visually impaired children to see. Consider placing different color contrasts around the house to help your child, such as placing light colored objects against a dark background, or dark objects on a light background.


Choose your child's color preference. Your child may only prefer and like one color because it's the easiest to see. For example, your child may really like the color yellow and prefers it over other colors. If that's the case with your child, you may want to choose that color to call attention for items that belong to them, such as a toothbrush or their pair of shoes. Avoid upholstery with patterns. Avoid having too many checker-designs, swirly-line shaped patterns, and markings all over the house. This not only makes it physically difficult to see for your child, but can also make it even harder to safely move around the house. , Keeping your home organized, clean, and tidy will make it a lot safer for your child to roam around and do daily life tasks. Clearly label materials using symbols and objects. Keep all shelves, closets, and storage areas organized. You may want to organize the materials by using different tools such as:


White 3 x 5 inch index cards
Jumbo colored paper clips
Colored adhesive labels
Colored electrical or plastic tape
Wide-tip markers
Flair felt-tip pens
Laundry markers
Velcro
Braille cards or magnets, if your child can read braille
Tactile marks
Foam alphabet letters
Self-stick magnetic tape

, Your child can recognize what belongs to them by using their sense of texture and touch, making it easy for them to recognize what belongs to them and where they need to go. Consider installing rails and handles around the house, placing tactile marks on items, and/or putting rubber bands and Velcro strips on important or dangerous areas around the house.
 When your child babbles or makes noises, respond to those sounds and try to talk to them about it. This encourages them to communicate and use their voice to speak. For example, when Ethan makes happy sounds as he plays with a toy, you could respond to him and say, "It looks like you're having fun right now. You're playing with your teddy bear and are making cooing noises. You probably feel really happy."

, Consider playing a variety of games to encourage your child to speak such as peek-a-boo. Cover an object, such as a toy, with a blanket and ask your child where it is. Allow them to attempt to tell you where it is and then answer for them. You can also practice taking turns with them, speaking to them on who gets to take a turn. Singing sounds and making sounds with your mouth can also encourage them to mimic you, allowing them to practice and engage in speaking. , Allow your child different opportunities to encourage them to speak, such as playing with a ball with them and then stopping to encourage them to attempt to say "ball" or "play". As they get older, you'll want to encourage them to state bigger and more expanded sentences. Create a need for the child to request help. For example, your child might point to the book on the top of the shelf because they can't reach it. You can pretend you don't know what they want and encourage them to attempt to speak by allowing them to try to communicate with you. , Create planned mistakes so you can encourage your child to communicate with you. For example, when singing a song to them, you might mess up and change the song so your child can correct you. You might sing "Twinkle twinkle little house" instead of the original song that they hear normally to encourage them to talk. , Throughout the day, talk to your child by clearly explaining the things around them they cannot see. For example, when your child is petting a cat, you might talk to them and explain how soft and fluffy the cat feels. Be descriptive and communicate vividly to encourage your child to do the same. Whenever your child does an activity, share what they are doing clearly. For example, if your son is putting his shoes on, you might say, "You are putting your shoes on now. The shoes feel rough and have two laces on them. Can you feel them? The shoes make a loud sound if you stomp your feet. Can you hear it?"

, Your child's visual disability should not single them out on household activities, chores, or daily duties. Teach them basic tasks and chores such as clearing the table, making their bed, washing the dishes, helping out with cooking, feeding their pets if they have any, etc. Teaching your child important tasks can help them in the future when they get older. , Braille is a written language for the blind and visually impaired to read by using their sense of touch. Encourage your child to learn braille by making it fun such as playing with braille tiles, giving them opportunities to playfully explore reading, and placing objects next to them as they learn new words. For example, if they're learning the word 'ball', you could place a toy ball next to the word so they can understand its meaning and enjoy the power of reading.
 You may want to use thick-tipped markers and pencils, large labels, big paperclips, small flashlights, a mini magnifying glass, and textured craft supplies to help make learning easier for your blind or visually child. You may want to create a workplace where your child can learn and do their schoolwork or homework. The workplace can include a desk and chair so they can sit and study, as well a goose-neck lamp so they can see more vividly. Keep all their learning tools and supplies in a safe and organized place so your child can track and find their materials easily. , Hands-on learning is a great way for blind or visually impaired children to learn since they're using their sense of texture to learn and explore. You may want to try doing crafts, sensory projects, texture charts and diagrams, science experiments, and food projects or activities.
,, Take your child to places to explore such as shopping at the grocery store, going to a zoo, playing at a park, and visiting a pet store. You might find it puzzling on how your child could go to places such as the zoo or pet store if they can't see, but your child is still able to use their other sense such as their sense of hearing and sense of touch. For example, at a petting zoo, your child is still able to hear the sounds the animals make and will be able to feel the animals when they pet them.
 Connecting with the Blind and Visually Impaired community can help you get tips, advice, and ideas from people who are like your child, and you can envision what life will be like for them in the future. Meeting other blind and visually impaired individuals can help you recognize that your family is not alone, and that a happy life and future is possible for your child.


Consider joining online groups or forums that are meant for blind and visually impaired individuals to share their story and life experiences.
 Reach out to other families that are raising or have raised a child with a visual disability. Other families have faced similar challenges as you and can help you find contacts, current medical and educational information, and other useful resources. They can also offer plenty of emotional support, and provide you with lots of suggestions, tips, and sources for you and your child.


You can connect with other parents by joining The National Association for Parents of Children with Visual Impairments (NAPVI) which is an organization that helps parents find information, get emotional support, and search for resources to help their children who are blind or visually impaired, including those with additional disabilities. ,, Consider creating an IEP for your child when they attend school, and help adapt ways to make school easier to handle. Your child will be different than normal classmates at school and may need certain adjustments to adapt at their school. Creating an IEP can help your child daily when they learn at school. Talk to their doctor and visual therapist about some helpful ideas they can include on their IEP. You can also talk to your child about it and include them in as well if they're old enough.
 Knowing the disability laws for your child is important and crucial, so you can ensure that your child gets the help and services they need. One of the most important laws in the US are the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Search up and research the laws in your country so you can understand the rights as a blind or visually impaired person.
, Professional organizations, university-affiliated hospitals, and national organizations for the blind and visually impaired are good sources to help work and help your child. Consulting with professionals and doctors about your child's eye condition can help your child grow and live independently, as well as cope with their eye condition.
, Try to research and learn as much as possible about your child's eye condition. Early intervention teachers and therapists, medical doctors, libraries, the Internet, eye care and low vision specialists, national organizations that serve people with visual impairments, and other families with a child that has a visual disability are good sources you might want to consider from. Ask questions to your child's doctor about your child's eye condition, especially if you're still confused and need a better explanation. Understand that it's normal to ask questions about your child's eye condition and it won't be considered 'silly' or 'weird'. Getting to understand your child's visual impairment will help you accept them better and know how to support them since you can understand your child better. , You and your family should avoid feeling embarrassed your child, but instead, accept them for who they are. Having a visual impairment doesn't make your child incapable and they're still able to perform many tasks and live independently. Your child doesn't have to miss out and their child won't have to be robbed.
 Having a routine can help a visually impaired child know how each day functions, making it easier to perform daily tasks and other activities. You may want to make a chart of the routine by using jumbo pictures, placing braille markings if your child can read braille, and using jumbo lettering.

Ensure the routine is easy to follow and that there aren't too many activities during the day that might cause your child to feel overwhelmed.
 Teach them how to read (Braille and/or printed text), type, listen to or play music, and try to paint (even it's not really good enough) but it may be great by another people.
, For a child who's visually impaired, it's very important that they're treated like any other child in the household and that they're included in family activities. With a seeing child, you can engage visually even when you're not necessarily talking to them. Be proactive about engaging with them, allowing them to chip in and participate as well.

For example, a family road trip should doesn't mean your child needs to stay home. Instead, find ways to make the road trip easier for them so they can adapt with the new environment.
Encourage your child to help out around the household such as doing chores or other household-related tasks. If you let a sighted child help you prepare dinner, allow your blind or visually impaired child to chip in too.
 Having a visual impairment is not an excuse for your child to walk all over you, and a child who is visually impaired is still capable of having manners and being respectful. A child with a visual disability should be provided with household rules so they know to act and behave. When your child breaks a rule, talk about it to them and recognize if you will need to provide a consequence for their behavior. Sticker charts and small rewards are good tactics for disciplining a child. It can be used to encourage good behavior and avoid the bad. Use jumbo, shiny stickers so your child can see them more easily.
Avoid being too harsh when your child breaks a rule. All children will misbehave now and then and it's perfectly normal. If you find yourself screaming and feeling furious, leave for a minute and allow another adult to handle your child so you can take a quick break.
Avoid time-outs. Most blind and visually impaired children do not respond well with time-outs and it can be mildly terrifying when being made to sit in a place without no one near them. Talk to your child on the way they feel.
Use natural consequences.
 Spend time with your child daily by providing and doing their favorite activities together. Your child might like to play with you outside, help you cook in the kitchen, finger paint with you, or make homemade play-dough together. Providing them with some attention will prevent them from feeling left out and lonely, and will also create a bond with you and your child. When doing an activity with your child, explain clearly what you're doing. For example, if you're playing catch, you might tell your child when you're about to throw the ball.
 When your child tries to speak to you, whether it's important, pay attention to them and avoid looking at distractions. Go down to your child's level so they know you're listening. Listen carefully to your child and show that you are listening by making a few comments such as "Oh, really?" or "Mhmm".


If your child doesn't mind being touched and likes it, you can gently rub your child while they try to speak to you so they can know you're listening and paying close attention to what they're saying.
 Having a visual impairment can be scary and frustrating at times because you can't see what's going on around you. Your child may lash out at you, even though they don't mean it, and show a desire of comfort and communication. When your child is upset or show signs of frustration, ask them about it. Then find ways to make your child safe and comfortable by asking a few suggestions on how you can help them. Some examples:


"Bella, you look upset every time I put the dishes away. Does the loud noises scare you? Would it help if I tell you when I'm going to to put the dishes away so you can go in your room?
"You look scared and worried, George. Do you find Addie's dog scary? Would it help if you could pet the dog to see that it won't hurt you?

, Your child may engage in a variety of repetitive behaviors such as eye pressing or poking, hand flapping, spinning, bouncing, rocking, light gazing (if they still have some sight left), head shaking, head banging, and other behaviors. A child with visual impairments may do these behaviors for no particular reason and they could mean nothing at all. Others may do these behaviors to express excitement, joy, frustration, the desire to communicate clearly, or distress, or because they feel restrained or aren't getting enough physical activity and playtime. Redirect any harmful behaviors that hurt your child, such as head banging. Find ways to redirect and change the behavior. You may want to discuss your concerns with their doctor or visual therapist.
Accept your child for their behaviors. It's perfectly fine for your child to behave differently from other children if it's not harming you or anyone else. Your child has a disability and may seem a little different than a normal child but that's okay.
 Always remind your child that even though they have a visual disability, you still care for them and love them as much as you would to a sighted child. Being visually impaired doesn't effect your child, they'll just have different challenges than a normal child does. Love your child for who they are and accept them; It'll make life easier for the both of you.

