 Before you start to pack your survival kit, you'll have to determine the climate and conditions of the place that you'll be. For instance, a desert climate will require different equipment than if you were stuck in a forest or at sea. Cater your survival kit to the climate and environment.


Special equipment needed for desert survival kits include leaf bags to protect you from the suns rays, extra water, and balloons for carrying water and signaling for rescue.A survival kit for the sea includes items like life vests, fishing equipment, inflatable boats, and flares., A good knife can be used in a multitude of ways when you're in the wilderness. A knife can help you build shelter, start a fire, hunt, cut food, clear paths, and cut twigs and string. Find a knife with a good balance of durability and cutting power, with a Rockwell Hardness between 54 to 58. You'll want to find a knife that can both pierce and cut things.A fixed blade knife is typically more durable than a folding knife under pressure.
 If you are in an area that has fresh streams and lakes to drink from, then you can buy a portable water filter. There are portable survival straws that will filter viruses, microorganisms, bacteria, chlorine, and heavy metals like lead and mercury. If you are in a more arid environment or have limited access to fresh water sources, make sure to pack as much fresh water as possible.Popular water filter brands include NDur Survival Straw, Sawyer Mini Water Filtration System, and the LifeStraw Survival Water Filter., When you're stranded in the wilderness, there's a good chance that you'll have to make a fire at some point. Fires can help you cook food and stay warm when it gets cold. There are multiple ways to do this including matches, a lighter, or a flint and scraper and each of these fire starting methods have their advantages and disadvantages.Store multiple matches among your gear in case you lose one batch of matches.
Get refillable butane lighters.
A flint and scraper will make sparks for a fire when wet.
Popular fire starter brands include Exotac NanoStriker XL, Coleman Magnesium Fire Starter, and UCO Titan Stormproof Matches., A GPS device can help guide you if you get lost in the wilderness but usually requires battery power and a signal. GPS can also malfunction. For this reason, you should always have a backup.When you can't use GPS, you can utilize a map in conjunction with a compass to find safety.


Popular compasses include the Phosphorescent Lensatic Compass, the Suunto A-10 Field Compass, and the Cammenga 3H Tritium Military Compass., If you have to endure a night in the wilderness, it's important that you build a makeshift shelter to stay warm or cool and protected from the elements. Items like tarps, ponchos, plastic sheets, or trash bags can be pinned to trees and act as a shelter. You can also buy tarps specifically created for survival at many outdoor shops.