 When assessing the best path to learning the piano, it’s important to first explore your goals for learning the piano and assess your current resources. There are two primary methods of learning piano online: working with an online individual piano instructor, or learning through an instructional website.To find the learning method that works best, ask yourself:


What do you want to get out of your lessons? Are you planning to perform piano pieces for others, to join a performing ensemble, or simply to play on your own?
Would you rather work with a human individual or move through website tutorials at your own speed?
How much time can you devote to weekly piano lessons?;
, Your budget will determine what kind of lessons you can afford, and how frequently you can afford them. Some of the online tutorial sites offer free lessons, while many online instructors charge for their time. Online lessons with an individual piano instructor often cost around $30/month.Also, remember to factor in other costs, such as paying for sheet music and for piano tunings (if you have a physical piano).
If you have a very limited budget, consider learning the basics via YouTube. There are many free videos available to learn basic skills, however they are not interactive.
 Whether you are inclined to learn to play the piano by video tutorials, written online tutorials, or by working with an online piano instructor, you should evaluate the websites and instructors, and check out multiple options before making a decision. There are a plethora of instructional websites, and it will be well worth your time to evaluate the sites before you commit to one for instruction—especially if the lessons are expensive.When evaluating sites and instructors, consider:


The qualification and skill of the piano instructor, website creator, or lesson-provider.
The online technology. If you find a website with poorly made videos or that uses antiquated media players, move on to a better option.
The marketing intent of the website. While many websites are designed to effectively instruct piano players, others are purely commercial and only want to sell a product, such as an online subscription or an instruction manual.

