 Massaging any part of your body improves circulation by increasing blood flow to the area, and your scalp is no exception. When you massage your scalp, the increased blood flow stimulates your hair follicles to grow. Scalp massage is a simple and easy technique for helping your hair grow in healthy and fast.Try massaging your scalp every time you take a shower. Use the tips of your fingers to gently rub your scalp in a circular motion. Be sure to cover the front, back and sides of your head.
Repeat the process as much as you like. It has the added benefit of reducing tension and helping you feel calm.;
, Certain essential oils have been shown to help stimulate new hair growth. Increase the benefits of your scalp massage by working in a small amount of essential oil. Pour five to ten drops of oil over your fingertips and massage the oil all over your scalp. Try one of these essential oils:Peppermint, which improves circulation.
Tea tree oil, which soothes the scalp and helps improve dandruff.
Lemon oil, which promotes healthy hair growth.
 This serves the dual purpose of helping promote hair growth and keeping the hair you have strong and soft. Coconut oil, almond oil and castor oil are all thought to help hair grow in thick and strong. To do a conditioning treatment, follow these steps:Wet your hair and massage one to two tablespoons of oil into your scalp for five minutes.
Run your fingers through your hair to distribute the oil from your roots to the tips of your hair. You can also use a wide-tooth comb.
Cover your hair with a shower cap and let the oil soak in for one to two hours.
Shampoo your hair as normal. You may have to wash it twice to remove excess oil.
 If your hair is dry or thin, treating it with a nutritious mask can help restore its luster. A restorative hair mask may not help your hair grow quickly, but by protecting the hair you have, it will keep you from having to trim off split ends and take a step backward on your journey to having longer hair. Here's how to make a hair mask:Crack one egg into a bowl and beat it lightly.
Mix in two tablespoons of plain yogurt and one tablespoon of honey.
Apply to wet hair and let it sit for 20 minutes.
Shampoo your hair as normal to wash out the mask.
 This is a special type of brush made with natural fibers that closely resemble the texture of human hair. It is used to pull sebum, the natural oil secreted by your scalp, all the way to the tips of your hair. This protects your hair from roots to tips and keeps it healthy and strong. Here's how to use one:Place the brush against your scalp and rub it back and forth to massage your head and pick up your natural oil.
In one long stroke, pull the brush from your roots to the tips of your hair. Keep stroking the same section of hair until it looks glossy and smooth.
Continue this process section by section until you have massaged your entire scalp and brushed out all of your hair.
Make sure you get a boar bristle brush. This doesn't work with plastic or metal brushes.
 When your goal is to grow your hair out fast, it's important to pay attention to the products you use. Many products contain chemicals that can damage your hair and cause it to be dry and brittle. Aim to use products that are composed of mainly natural ingredients. Avoid products that contain the following:Sulfates: found in shampoo, these are harsh cleansers that strip your hair of natural oils and dry it out.
Silicones: found in conditioner, these build up in your hair and cause it to look weighed down and dull.
Alcohols: found in hairspray, gel and other styling products, these dry out your hair and cause it to get brittle.
 Hair is mostly composed of protein, making it the most important component of a hair-healthy diet. Examine your diet and make sure you're getting plenty of protein every day. When your diet is protein deficient, your body doesn't produce as much hair.Eat lean meats, fish, eggs and dairy products high in protein.
Beans, leafy greens and tofu are good sources of protein for vegetarians.
 This is a B vitamin essential for hair growth. Since it is mostly found in animal products, vegetarians and vegans often find that they have a b vitamin deficiency. To make sure you get plenty of b vitamins in your diet, eat the following foods:Eggs, nuts, salmon, avocados, meat products and wheat bran.
If you feel you aren't able to meet your b vitamin needs with food alone, consider taking a biotin supplement.
 When you aren't getting enough vitamin A or C, your hair can become weak and dull. Make sure you're eating plenty of the following:


Sweet potatoes, carrots, kale, butternut squash and pumpkin, which are all rich in Vitamin A.
Broccoli, leafy greens, peppers, and citrus fruits, which contain high amounts of Vitamin C.
 These "good" fats support your scalp's health and promote healthy growth of hair and skin cells. Omega 3 fatty acid is found in salmon, sardines, mackerel, flax seeds and walnuts. You can take fish or flax seed oil supplements if you don't enjoy eating foods that are rich in omega 3s.
 When your body is dehydrated, it shows in your hair. Your hair can become dry, brittle and more prone to breakage. When your hair breaks and frays, it's more difficult to grow it into the longer style you're after. Make sure you stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water every day.


Try replacing coffee, soda and alcoholic drinks with water whenever possible.
Carry a water bottle with you throughout the day so you'll never have to go thirsty.
 Sometimes hair loss or extremely slow growth has an underlying cause that can't be fixed using at-home methods. If you believe that your hair loss may be a symptom of a more serious illness, make an appointment with your doctor right away. Once you get the underlying problem treated, your hair should start to grow faster. Here are a few conditions that cause hair loss:Scalp infections or skin disorders
Alopecia areata, a disorder that causes patchy hair loss
Trichotillomania, a disorder that leads you to pull out your hair
Certain medications cause hair loss
Hormonal changes can cause hair loss

, Washing your hair every day can cause it to get dry and brittle. Each time you shampoo your hair, you wash away the protective oil that keeps it healthy and strong. When you're trying to grow your hair fast, it's best to wash your hair no more than once or twice a week.In between washes, use dry shampoo to keep your roots from looking oily.
When you wash your hair, handle it gently. Don't scrub it or wring it out. Rinse with lukewarm or cool water instead of hot.
 Air drying is really the healthiest choice when it comes to growing out your hair. Drying your hair with a hair dryer eventually weakens the hair shaft and leads to damage. The same goes for other heat styling tools like curling irons, flat irons and hot rollers.After your shower, pat your hair dry with a towel. Don't roughly towel it dry.
Comb it out with a wide tooth comb. Apply product, such as leave-in conditioner, then let it fully air dry.
 When your hair is wet, it stretches and breaks much more easily than when it is dry. That's why brushing your hair when it's wet is so damaging. It leads to breakage, frizz and split ends. Instead, use a wide tooth comb to gently detangle your hair. Start near the tips and work your way up to the roots, rather than dragging the comb down through your hair to pull out tangles.
 Dyeing, bleaching, and chemically straightening your hair can cause a lot of damage. It's better to leave your hair in its natural state while you're trying to grow it out. You should also avoid hair styles that can pull out the hair, like tight weaves or braids.


If you're determined to lighten or color your hair, use a natural method that doesn't cause damage. Try lightening your hair with honey or dyeing it with henna.
Learn to love your natural look. If your hair is curly or kinky, there's no natural method that will make it look perfectly straight. Fast-growing, free-flowing hair is beautiful.
 The sun, air pollution, and pool chlorine are among the environmental elements that can damage your hair. If your hair is particularly fragile, it's a good idea to protect it, just as you would your skin.


When you go out in strong sun, wear a hat to cover your hair.
If you live in a place with high air pollution, cover your hair with a scarf or hat while you're out on the city streets.
When you swim in pools, wear a swim cap to protect your hair from chlorine.