 After you’ve learned about the science fair, you should schedule a time, possibly with your parent or guardian, to briefly discuss it with your teacher or the project coordinator. This way, you’ll form a clearer understanding of the rules and parameters of the project.;
, Make sure you have your own copy of the science fair project rules and then review them in detail. This is extremely important, as you want to be sure about rules and other requirements of the project. Properly reviewing the rules will make sure that there are no surprises down the road.


Get a highlighter and go through the rules, highlighting key rules and requirements.
Review the schedule of the project, along with preliminary due dates and final due dates.
Make sure to take a look at the next level of competition if you win your school or district’s competition., Sometimes you might have several months to work on the project, and other times you might have several weeks. Once you’ve committed to competing in the project, look at the schedule and form an understanding of the important bench marks you’ll have to meet to create a winning project. After all, you certainly have other obligations to meet at the same time, and you won’t be able to commit all of your energies to the project., If this is allowed, it can be a great way to cover more ground and share ideas together. One word of warning: choose wisely! Don't pair up with a person you know you won't work well, or just because that other person seems cool.


Choose a person you have worked with in your past and you know there is some sort of great connection with that person.
Avoid choosing a partner who isn't interested in science or who won't contribute equally, winning this science fair might be your passport to success, in college or your following year.
Work alone on your project if you do not work well with others, or if there are no suitable partners available.
 Perhaps the most important element of winning a science fair is working on a project that you are excited and enthusiastic about. Being enthusiastic about your project will motivate you to go that extra mile. But if you’re not excited about the project, you probably won’t take the extra steps to do everything it takes to create the best project. To try to figure out what interests you, consider the following:


Do you like to build things? Think about something mechanical.
Are you interested in biology or agriculture? Consider a study of plant or animal life.
Does the weather fascinate you? Consider a meteorology project.
Brainstorm with your partner on this, if you have one.
 There are many lists of really good potential projects available on the internet. Many of them have been done by other people, but yours could be different. Browse these lists to see if your interests line up with potential projects., If lists of projects don’t work out, start a search on your own. Using the subjects you find interesting, begin a search online, read books at your local library, or ask your teachers for certain topics that you may not know about, and might interest you.


Begin with topics of interest to you personally and find scientific angles that arise from this interest.
Ask yourself if the idea is doable before going too far with it.
Don’t be afraid to spend time on research. You might have to spend a couple days or a week or even two at the library after school reading up on general topics in order to come up with an idea., Originality is often an important criteria for award winning projects. How original is your idea? The more original you are, and the more that you try to do an experiment in a different way from how it has been tried before, the better it will be received by the judges., Once you’ve narrowed your potential projects down to a few, you need to examine whether they are good ideas, and whether they are doable or not. If you’ve got a brilliant idea, but you won’t have the resources or time to do it, then that idea is best shelved for another time. If you’ve got an easy idea, but it’s not original and will clearly be a loser, don’t waste time on it.


Discuss your favorite ideas with your science teacher to see if they think your potential projects might be good.
Rank your ideas, and begin vetting the ones you are most interested in.
Narrow your list down to the top 5.
Make individual outlines for your top ideas. Make sure to briefly explore what your project will entail and how long it will take. Don’t spend more than a couple hours making your outlines for each idea. You might need to spend an hour or two on each idea. That’s okay.
Put together preliminary budgets for each of your top 5. You might find that some projects are much more expensive than others, and you might want to choose one or another as a result of monetary constraints., This may be determined by the project or it may be something you can do almost anywhere. Make sure to conduct the experiment or build your invention in the best, and most convenient, location possible.


Can you do it in class?
Can you perform your project at home?
Will you be required to travel to conduct your experiment or to complete your project?

, Now that you’ve got your project, and the basic information about it, you’ve got to create a timeline so you’ll be able to complete it before the due date. The timeline will really depend on how much time you have in your individual circumstances. But consider certain factors:


If your project is time dependent, like growing a cucumber plant, you’ll need to build in the 60-80 days that some varieties of cucumbers need to mature.
If you’ve got to order supplies, build this in as well.
Make sure to reserve time for compiling data, writing your reports, and designing your visual presentation after the experiment has concluded., Chances are, you don’t have an unlimited amount of money for your project. Find out how much you have, and then go through the list of resources you’ll need to acquire in order to create the project. This is something you might have considered earlier, but now you’ll have to make a much more specific budget. List every little thing you might need, as expenses mount quickly., Working out your equipment and resources should have been something you explored in the vetting process. Now you just need to secure that equipment and other resources, so that you have all of the items and needs sorted ahead of performing the experiment. If something is missing, the experiment might fail for lack of whatever it is rather than for other reasons.


Is the equipment available in your school? Go ahead and secure permission to use it.
Are you borrowing items from someone else? Talk to them and provide specifics on when you will need equipment or whatever else it is you are borrowing.
Do you need to order special supplies online? Now is the time to go ahead and order those supplies.
 This may be as simple as wearing old clothes or working over a sink. Or, it might mean that you need safety goggles, head protection or some sort of safe room or box, etc. Know what is needed before starting and be sure you can meet the safety requirements totally., For almost all science fair projects, you’ll need to start with a hypothesis. A hypothesis is an educated guess about how your project/experiment will work out. It is essentially your guess about what the results of the project will be. The results of your experiment will either support or contradict your hypothesis.


The hypothesis needs to be something that you can and will test.
You need to form a hypothesis before you begin the experiment or project.
You should form your hypothesis after you’ve done a good job researching and sorting out your logistics.
An example of a hypothesis is: “If I don’t water a fern for 10 days, the fern will die.”, Begin your project and start the experiment. Put time and care into whatever project you’ve chosen. This might be a long and tedious process, but it could just pay off with a blue ribbon!


If you’re germinating seeds, make sure you do it correctly.
If you’re building some sort of device or contraption, make sure you don’t do it in a rush.
If you’re doing something that requires it, include a control element to test the outcomes against.
 Along the way, document every part of the process and experiment. All of this documentation will help you when it comes time to compiling your data and creating your reports. It is best to over-document instead of under-document, as you never know what information might be useful when you’re creating your report and arriving upon conclusions.


Take photos if possible.
Keep dated and timed records.
Keep a journal of everything you do, everything you observe, and what works and doesn’t work. If you’re testing a new model airplane and something small failed, document that in your journal.
Consider a video diary of your experiment. This way is a great way to capture small details without spending lots of time writing them down., Once you’ve completed your experiment, you need to look at the data and decide whether or not your hypothesis was correct. Don’t be afraid to be wrong. Let the data speak for itself. After all, you’re the one that performed the experiment, and if you did so diligently, than that is either really good evidence for or against your hypothesis., After you’ve resolved your hypothesis and reviewed the data, you need to come to a larger conclusion about the project. What does your data really say about what you were testing or creating? Be brave when it comes to this. If you’ve got data or an invention of some sort that contradicts what others have previously said, don’t hide it. After all, you’ve documented your process and you’ve have either photos or a final product to prove your results.


When forming your conclusion do so in a clear and concise way. Make sure you can easily articulate your conclusion.
Don't guess or jump to conclusions that are not supported by facts, data, and observation.
Don't let your hypothesis or over expectations cloud your conclusion. Let the data speak for itself., Using the data you’ve documented and collected, prepare graphs, tables, or other ways of displaying your information. Print out or develop your photographs. Edit your videos. These elements highlight your data and process. They make it easier for people to read your paper/poster/outline, etc. and makes the end result more interesting.If you choose to make a video, make sure that it is easy to hear, logical in sequence and shows clearly what has been done. Back up a video with a printed overview, as a paper copy of the things said in the video will help the judges and can be read by anyone interested.
Make sure graphs are labeled clearly and are large enough to be viewed from at least five feet away.
Make sure you include at least short one sentence explanations of any data you include through graphs or images.
If you’ve got some sort of invention, make sure you clean it (of grease, oils, saw dusts, whatever) and prepare it to be displayed to others.
 Using all of your data, you should now create a written report of your project. The length of the written report might vary, depending on specific contest rules. It may range from 3 to 20 pages. It may also depend on your project, the importance and number of images and graphs you include, and more. Consider including:


A brief overview of the project, that explains your project in clear and concise terms, and explains why you were interested in it in the first place.
Your preliminary research.
Your hypothesis.
The process of your experiment.
Your findings.
Your conclusions. Also make sure to make a comment about the relevance or practical usage of your findings in everyday life., Perhaps the most important part of your project, after the experiment itself, is preparing a visual display of your project. This display will often include graphs and images that you’ve already created. It will often be on a large cardboard or poster board display. You’ll include much of the same information you included in your written report, but it will be condensed considerably so people can view the project quickly and get a good idea of your process and findings. Consider including:


Your hypothesis being tested.
An explanation of how the experiment was carried out.
An outline of your findings.
General and specific observations of what happened during the experiment
Graphs, charts, and images that are particularly helpful for individuals seeing your project for the first time.
Anything unusual or interesting that you spotted.
The conclusions you've reached, detailed and explained clearly., Your oral presentation is going to be extremely important when it comes to communicating your findings to judges and others who will be viewing your project. Make sure your oral presentation highlights and explains all of the material on your visual presentation.


Talk judges and over observers through the material on your poster board.
Make sure your oral presentation is between 3 and 5 minutes long.
Practice this presentation to family and friends ahead of delivering it in front of a class or in front of judges.
Speak clearly and slowly when delivering your oral presentation., Make an answer sheet with FAQs (frequently asked questions) that you think students, teachers and judges might ask. This will help you to identify important things to focus on in your presentation and it will help calm any nerves you might have about being asked questions., You've put in a lot of effort and helped continue humanity's quest for knowing more about the world and universe in which we live. Through sharing your ideas with others, you're helping to keep the scientific tradition going. Make sure to be enthusiastic and to think about your project as something important.

