 Before you use the banana peel, you want to make sure that your skin is free from dirt and oils. Use a mild cleanser to clean the affected area, then rinse with cool water. Pat the skin dry with a soft clean towel.


Don't scrub or rub your skin too harshly. This will inflame your skin and could make acne worse.;
, You'll want to pick out a banana that is ripe. It should be yellow with black spots. Avoid bananas that are under-ripe (bright yellow with green tips) or over-ripe (greasy and black).


Using a ripe banana will also make it easier to wipe over the acne-affected area.
 Remove the banana from its peel. You won't need to use it to treat acne, so eat it or save it for treating another skin issue. Cut the peel so that it's easy to hold a chunk in your hand.


Banana peels contain vitamins A, B, C, E, and contain potassium, zinc, iron, and manganese. These nutrients can calm inflamed skin and and reduce acne outbreaks., Use the interior part of the peel that appears white. Take the chunk of banana peel and gently rub or massage your skin with it for about 10 minutes.


Every few minutes, you should check to see if the peel is still white inside. Once it's turned black, replace it with another piece and continue massaging your skin.
 Don't immediately wash your face once you've finished massaging it with the banana peel. If you can, wait until the end of the day to rinse your skin off with cool water. This will allow your skin to absorb the banana peel's nutrients.


If you can't wait until the end of the day to wash your face, try rubbing the peel on your face before you go to bed. In the morning, rinse your face with clean water.
 While you only need to rub your face with the banana peel once during the day, you should do this for several days in a row.After a few days, you may notice your acne begin to clear up or at least appear less red.


If you notice your skin becomes extremely irritated after using the banana peel, stop using it and give your skin a chance to rest.Consider seeing a dermatologist if your acne continues or gets worse.

