 Before you can access a webmail account, you need to create one first. Create a new browser tab and search for a website where you want to sign up for an account.


Google, Yahoo, AOL and Outlook are the most commonly used email providers offering a free webmail service.;
, Once you’ve chosen the email provider you'd like to have, click the “Sign Up” button located on the web page to start the registration process.
 Besides choosing the username you want for your account (for example, johndoe123@email.com where johndoe123 is the username). Many email providers will also request that you enter some basic personal information such as your full name, birth date, gender and location but you will be able to register for the account regardless of what you enter.


Once your account has been created, the username of it cannot be changed without assistance from the email provider. If you would like an email account with a different username, repeat steps 1 - 4, this time entering the username you would like.
 Click “Done,” “Save,” or whatever button is present on the web page that you need to click to submit the sign-up form. Once your account has been created, you’ll be taken immediately to your webmail’s inbox.
 In the URL bar, type in and open the address of the site where you registered for an webmail account.


Email providers have their own addresses for their services, although most common providers such as Google and Yahoo will have similar URLs for their webmail service; Google's, for example, is mail.google.com and Yahoo's is mail.yahoo.com.
Opening the URL of the webmail service will take you to the login page of your account.
 Enter the username and password for your account and click on the “Sign In” or “Log In” button to continue. Your webmail’s inbox will show right after.
 Click the message from the inbox list and it will open on the main panel of the webpage.


You can also compose messages and reply to message threads straight from your web browser without downloading or installing any other software.

