 Monday is the first day of the week, so your productivity and energy is at an all-time high. Use your thirty minutes on Monday to vacuum the main rooms (living room, kitchen, dining room, etc.), do laundry and pick up anything in a room that doesn’t belong there.To save time, throw laundry directly in the washing machine, instead of in the hamper. Leave the machine running as you do other things.
As you start to vacuum each week, the length of time it will take to complete this chore will decrease. Soon, you’ll be deep cleaning less and maintaining your clean more.
 A bathroom deep-clean includes scrubbing your toilet, mirrors, sink and shower. You’ll also need to mop the floors, remove any debris that is lying around and change out any old towels or linens that are lying around.To save even more time, leave cleaning product and a rag in your shower and clean your shower as you use it.
For bonus points, spray your shower down after every use. This will make your weekly bathroom cleaning sessions go by much faster.
Cut a grapefruit in half, sprinkle salt on it, and use it to help get soap scum out of your bathtub., Start by dusting everything, then wipe down all tables, windows, mirrors, etc. End by thoroughly vacuuming everything you didn’t already vacuum on Monday. If your floors need to be mopped, mop them after vacuuming.Always start with dusting, otherwise you’ll get dust on your newly cleaned floors.
If you’re mopping, mix a floor cleaning product (like Pine Sol) in with your mop water for the ultimate shine on your floors.
Use an already used dryer sheet to dust. The anti-static will help repel dust., Whatever is left lying around by Thursday needs to be organized and put away. If your house is pretty clean at this point in the week, use this day to focus in on a particular area, like an overflowing closet or messy cupboard.Don’t be afraid to get rid of stuff you don’t use. Donate it to charity or throw it out, but if you’re not using it, it’s got to go.
Strategically place bins or baskets in each room to corral random items. This will make each room look cleaner and more polished, and will also help you cut down on the time you spend cleaning up.

