 In order for your cat to recover, you’ll need to be diligent in your treatment. You should give your cat its prescribed medications on time every day, and follow the medication instructions to the letter.If your cat refuses to take its medicine (or if the symptoms of ataxia are already quite advanced), your cat may need to be hospitalized and treated by the veterinarian. This way, the vet can administer drugs and fluids intravenously, and monitor your cat’s progress.
If you are having trouble getting your cat to take pills, discuss the issue with your vet. They can assist you with altering your technique, or can provide you with an oral suspension or topical medication that may be easier to administer.;
, Cats with severe ataxia have a lot of trouble moving. This means that it is quite possible for an ataxia-inflicted cat to develop bed sores from long periods of sitting in the same position. You should turn your cat over onto its other side every couple of hours to help prevent this from happening.Be careful not to upset your kitty too much in the process. Be gentle and move slowly. Trying to move your cat too quickly could increase anxiety or make the cat vomit.
 If your cat has ataxia, it may not be able to make it to the litter box without too much difficulty. This means that your cat may eliminate outside of the litter box. To avoid this, you should place your cat in the litter box once every few hours to make sure it can go to the bathroom properly.Watch out for any soiled linens around where your cat is sitting. If the cat feels unable to make it to the litter box, it may eliminate on the couch or bed nearby.
 For a cat with ataxia, stairs, open windows, and ledges can be dangerous places. Your cat may try to use the stairs or jump on a ledge without realizing how poor its balance and mobility has become. You don’t want your cat to hurt itself even more.Try to use baby gates to make dangerous places more inaccessible. If this doesn’t work, consider confining your cat to a separate room while it recovers from the ataxia.

