 If you have particular areas of interest, such as proofreading financial, legal, or medical websites, you may want to concentrate your efforts in these areas. You may need some additional training in your area(s) of specialty, but you may also reap more financial rewards and more personal satisfaction from specializing than from trying to proofread anything that comes across your radar.
 You can find a number of websites offering online proofreading jobs by typing "online proofreading jobs" or "proofreading at home assignments" into an Internet search engine. You can register with these sites, and you can list your services on job boards and freelance marketing sites.


Websites that specialize in providing proofreading and editing services include Mulberry Studio, Proofread NOW, and Wordfirm. Some services specialize in areas such as business communications, while others provide additional services such as transcription, indexing, or proofreading in multiple languages. Some services also offer promotional assistance to proofreaders who contract with them, such as the ability to create or link to their own websites. You may have to have at least 2 to 3 years of proofreading or editing experience, sufficient computer equipment and typing speed, and you may also have to take a test to qualify to work with them.
Freelance marketing sites include Elance, Guru, and Odesk.com. These sites list clients with jobs, and you bid competitively with other freelancers to win the job. Freelancers are listed on these sites by level of experience; some sites also offer enhanced listings for a fee.
Job boards include Monster.com and Jobs.com. You post a resume with your experience and set up a keyword search for jobs you're interested in. Job boards are devoted primarily to job seekers looking for full- or part-time work as employees of a company, but they may also offer telecommute positions or contract work as well.
 Look for websites with a lot of written content and approach the site owner or webmaster. Look in the Contact Us section of the website for email addresses; you'll want one with a person's name or at least "webmaster" in the address instead of a generic term such as "info."

, Having your own website will let you advertise your online proofreading services and show your professionalism to prospective clients. You'll have to develop your skills in search engine optimization (SEO) to help clients find your site in an Internet search, and you'll also have to make sure your site is free of spelling and grammatical errors.
 You can approach non-profit organizations and start-up businesses with an offer to proofread their websites for free, in exchange for referrals to other, paying clients. Be upfront about your purpose at the beginning, so that you receive the kind of referrals you want, instead of other volunteer assignments.

