 If you like them, and really dig their lyrics and message, move on to step two. If not, this is not the article for you.;
, Real members of the BVB army buy the music, and merchandise, so as to support the band and further the cause. But if you can't afford it, don't worry. Also, strongly consider purchasing a couple BVB shirts, and for a real hardcore fan, either a Pentagram necklace (For atheists, Satanists, and anyone who doesn't care about the meaning behind the Pentagram)(The necklace is really just the BVB symbol made into a star) Or necklace of Prayer beads/a rosary (For Christians, Catholics, or anyone uncomfortable with pentagrams)

, Most people only wear it to BVB concerts and gatherings, but some BVB fans wear it all the time, to turn heads, or just because they feel RIGHT in their paint. BVB warpaint all has it's own little twists and add ons that make each person's paint unique. Try to paint your arms and neck/face/legs/whatever in an image that reflects your inner self. The one detail that almost all warpaint has in common is a stitch on the right side of the face (with makeup of course) from the lip all the way to where your face ends and jawbones begin. This is another brilliant piece of symbolism used to express that although nobody is perfect, and everyone is wounded and scarred in some way, everyone is beautiful. This is the meaning behind their debut album's title "We Stitch These Wounds". Here is an example on the face of lead vocalist Andy Biersack.
 Take a strong stance against bullying and be prepared to stand up for ALL people being bullied (especially but) not just other Bridesmaids and Ushers. Though we are generally a nonviolent group, do know how to defend yourself in a physical confrontation, but do everything you can to avoid one first. Defense, not offense!!

, Whether male or female, gay or straight, white or black, rich or poor, we are all united under the stitch, and we are all equal.
 Have fun, and stay safe. Protect each other, and always remember, that we are young and we are strong. Through strength in self we become something more than they can be. This is our Sweet Blasphemy.

