 When parents are trying to find educational games for their children, they should ask the child’s teachers and childcare providers for ideas.


These people work with children in an educational setting on a daily basis. They should be able to help with ideas of games to play with the child or, at the least, ideas of where to look for games.
Teachers have resources that are not readily available to parents. Parents can ask the teacher if the childcare facility has a resource room for parents. Ask if there are books or resources that can be borrowed overnight or over a weekend.;
, Go to the public library or a local bookstore. Check the education section or browse through the card catalogue, which is probably online.


Find books that are for teachers of toddlers and preschoolers. Find books that specifically reference learning games for toddlers in the titles.
When you have the books, check the Table of Contents in the front or the Index in the back. Look for games about the specific topics the child likes. If the child likes math, look for counting games. If the child likes building, look for games that incorporate that skill.
If the books have something useable, check it out and take it home. Go through it more thoroughly to get the details about the games. Then play some of the games with the toddler.
 Many learning resources exist online. Type the words “learning games for toddlers” into Google and sort through all the results to see what kind of games can be found.


Play around with some of the games to see if they are suitable for your child. Add more words to the search, like “free learning games for toddlers” or “math learning games for toddlers”. It will help to narrow the search a little and give more pertinent results for the child.
Add as many descriptive words as you want, but keep in mind that the more words that are added, the more limited the search is. Yes, it is more specific; however, it is also more limiting. Search through the pages of results to find games that the child will like and can play.
Some of the games may be physical games that do not involve electronics, but other games could be online or electronic. Find a mixture of both kinds to keep the child interested and interactive while he/she is playing the games.
 For those parents that prefer to purchase ready-made learning games, there are plenty to be found at stores.


Parents should not simply purchase the most popular educational game or the one that looks the most technologically advanced. Instead, it is a good idea to look for games that are manufactured by a company that is in the field of early education or early childhood development. LeapFrog and Fisher Price are two well-known manufacturers of learning toys and games for various age ranges.
It is important that the parent consider the age range for the game to be sure that it is appropriate for their toddler, but they should also keep in mind the skill level that their child has already achieved. In order to keep the learning fun and beneficial, it is best to purchase learning games that are a little above the child’s skill level and build on what is already familiar to them.
An example of a purchasable learning game is the LeapFrog Scribble n Write which can be used to teach letter recognition as well as proper pencil control while writing.

