 If your parent’s drinking problem is affecting many people, talk to other family members about what you can do. While you cannot stop your parent from drinking, you can have rules for family gatherings. For example, agree as a family to not serve alcohol at family functions, or to limit alcohol intake. Have a standard response from all family members if your parent’s drinking gets out of hand. Find ways to unite altogether to be firm on what behaviors are inappropriate.


For example, say to your parent, “We know you enjoy drinking, but it’s not allowed around your grandchildren. We don’t want them exposed to alcohol.”
If you have siblings, have a discussion about how they can help you deal with the situation. That way, you will not be struggling to deal with your parent’s alcoholism alone. Decide on specific roles and responsibilities that each sibling can take on in engaging with the alcoholic parent.
 If dealing with your parent’s alcoholism causes you stress and leaves you exhausted, make sure you have some time to let go of that stress. Handling stress daily helps it from compounding and allows you to blow off steam. Relaxation is a great way to handle stress and can help with depression and to stabilize your moods.Start a meditation practice, attend yoga classes, or go for a daily walk.
 If you’re looking for support for yourself, join a support group. Surround yourself with people who are in similar situations as yourself. A support group is a great place to meet other people, share your frustrations, ask for advice, and give and receive support.Speak with others who have an alcoholic elderly parent and ask them how they cope.
For example, Al-Anon, Johnson Intervention, and SMART Recovery Family and Friends are some examples of support groups for family members and friends of an alcoholic.
 If you feel like you need personal support regarding your parent's alcoholism, consider seeing a therapist. A therapist can help you sort through your feelings and help you find ways to cope. If you feel overwhelmed and unable to deal with the stress of your problems, therapy can be a great way to find some clarity and relief.Ask for a referral from a medical doctor, local mental health clinic, or your insurance provider. You can also ask friends and family for a recommendation.
 Dealing with an alcoholic parent on a regular basis may lead to frustration, anger, and feeling overwhelmed. Do your best not to respond to your parent in anger. If you notice your temper flaring, take a deep breath before saying anything. Remind yourself that anger will not take away your problems and instead, will likely expand them.Take some distance if you need it. Go on a walk, go outside, or ask someone to take over for you. If you feel constantly upset, consider having a home nurse or other caretaker so that you can get some distance.

