 Mold growing in your home can cause serious health problems. People who are sensitive to mold can suffer from irritation in their throat, their eyes, on their skin and in their lungs. Remove the mold to create a healthier, cleaner, safer home.Mold can aggravate existing allergies.
Mold has been linked to respiratory tract infections and lung disease.
Mold can cause coughing, wheezing and increased effects of asthma.;
, Vinegar is a natural and organic material, but extended exposure to vinegar can cause irritation to your skin. Protect your skin by wearing gloves when you are working with vinegar.
 Do not dilute the vinegar with water. Make sure that you have enough vinegar to cover the surface you would like to clean., Cover the area thoroughly with the vinegar. Be generous in how much you use to be sure that there is enough vinegar to attempt to break up the mold.If you do not have a spray bottle handy, you can also use a disposable cloth. Thoroughly wet the cloth with vinegar and wipe the area of mold to soak it in vinegar.
 It takes a little time for the vinegar to work into the mold and break it. Give it at least an hour before you return to scrub the mold away.
 Using a brush, scrub at the area of mold which has been sitting in the vinegar. Continue to clean your brush off in warm water as you work through the moldy area.Using a scrub brush will make it easier to break up the mold, as well as keeping your skin further removed from the vinegar while you are cleaning.
Find a brush that is the appropriate size for the job. You may want a larger brush to cover more surface area, or a smaller brush to reach into cracks and corners.
 Once you have dislodged the mold from the surface, wipe the space clean using warm water and allow the area to dry. If the mold persists, repeat this entire process until all the mold has been removed.Vinegar will likely leave an odor, which will fade within a few hours.
 Vinegar is thought to kill 82% of species of mold. If this is true, that still leaves you with the possibility of 18% of persistent species. If vinegar does not seem to be cutting through your mold problem, try mixing it with borax, hydrogen peroxide, baking soda or salt.Only mix the vinegar with one of these products at a time. If it is still not working, try mixing it with another.
Never mix vinegar with bleach. This creates dangerous, toxic fumes.
If these combinations are not working, or you have a larger mold problem, you may need to hire a professional to remove the mold from your home.
 You can find an N95 mask at your local hardware store. Follow the instructions on the packaging to fit the mask tightly to your face if you are cleaning a large mold infestation.This mask is not necessary for small projects and everyday cleaning.
 You do not have to wash the vinegar away. Once the surface is clean, you can spray it with vinegar and leave the vinegar on the surface to keep the mold from returning.Keep a spray bottle of vinegar in your shower and spray the surface every few days.
Mop your floors with vinegar to prevent mold growth in damp areas.
 Leaks can occur in your roof, your plumbing and seep in through your window. Clean any spills and address these problems to keep you home dry and free of mold.Check your roof for leaks and replace the roof or fix an area which may be allowing the damp weather into your home.
Fix any plumbing issues as soon as they happen to prevent water from dripping and spilling.
Check the seals of your windows and replace any which are allowing dampness to get through.
 You may need to invest in a dehumidifier if you live in a humid area or have a part of your home which lacks ventilation and tends to be damp and attract mold., Mold thrives in damp, dark places. Allow air and sunlight into damp spaces as much as possible in order to control mold. Turn on fans when you are cooking, showering, or doing laundry.The kitchen, bathroom, and laundry room should be equipped with ventilation systems.
 Air conditioners contain drip pans, which gather excess water. Empty and clean this pan regularly to keep mold from forming and blowing into your home.Cut power to the air conditioner before you clean the drain pan.
It is easiest to remove the water with a wet/dry vacuum to avoid spilling.
Once you have removed the water, scrub away any debris or mold which may have formed in the pan before you return it.

