 The amount of zinc a person should have differs based on factors, such as age and gender. You should determine how much zinc you require each day because getting too much zinc can be harmful.Children seven months to three years old need 3 mg each day. Children younger than seven months need 2 mg.
Children four to eight years old need 5 mg.
Children nine to 13 years old need 8 mg. Both can get up to 23 mg safely each day.
Male teens 14 to 18 years old need 11 mg. Females need 9 mg. Both can get up to 34 mg safely each day.
Males over 18 need 11 mg, while females need 8 mg. Both can get up to 40 mg safely each day.
Zinc needs increase when pregnant and/or breastfeeding — 11 mg and 12 mg respectively. These numbers will be even higher if you are a teenager.
 Vegetarians need to be particularly careful to get enough zinc from non-animal sources. You can get zinc from beans and legumes, nuts and seeds, oats, and wheat germsVegetarians and vegans may have a zinc deficiency because many of the main sources of zinc are not acceptable to vegetarians. The other reason is that grains and legumes, main foods for vegetarians, contain high levels of phytic acid. This component may reduce zinc absorption.
 Zinc is important for many bodily functions. It is important for your immune system. Zinc also plays a critical role in over 300 enzyme reactions in the body. Zinc also plays a structural role for proteins and cell membranes.In proteins, zinc provides a sort of scaffolding to keep proteins folded correctly. This scaffold is called the “zinc finger motif.” Proteins containing a zinc finger motif are important in regulating how genes, coded for in the DNA, are expressed. These proteins act as transcription factors, controlling gene expression.
Zinc is also important in how cells communicate with each other and is important in control of hormone levels and in the transmission of nerve signals
Zinc plays a role in a process called apoptosis, or programmed cell death. This is particularly important to control cancer cells and in ridding the body of non-functional cells.
 While it is important to get enough zinc in your diet, it is also important to recognize that zinc can interfere with the absorption of other minerals, such as copper, iron, and calcium. If you need to increase any of these nutrients, space out your foods with zinc and copper, iron, and calcium. Put two to three hours between eating these foods.


Though zinc blocks absorption of some minerals, it is needed for better absorption of others. Zinc is required for the absorption of folate (a B vitamin) and the function of Vitamin A.

