 Form two short ovals with your clay. One should be half the length of the other. Attach the shorter of the two to the left side of the longer, and smooth them out until they form one piece.This smaller bulge is the "pons" of the brain stem.
If you want to make this model part atlas, as well, you should use seven different colors, one for each part of the detailed brain model.
 The cerebellum looks like a small circle with two thin ropes connecting it to the brain stem. Between your palms, roll a small circle of clay, about the same size as the thinner area of the brain stem. Roll a small rope and attach this to the bottom of your cerebellum, which will be pressed against the right side of the brain stem.Pinch a portion of the clay at the bottom of the cerebellum to give you something to attach the ropes to.
 Lay the pieces against the right side of the brain stem, along the pons and slightly covering some of the stem. Gently press the two pieces together until they stick. Connect the small rope with one side running down the shaft of the brain stem, and the other running upward over the pons.

The cerebellum has many small lines running horizontally. These are much thinner and close together than the pattern of the rest of the outer surface. Take a knife or sharp pencil to draw these lines across the cerebellum.
 Make a small slug using the clay. The length should roughly match the length of the brain stem. Press one end onto the top of the brainstem and curve the rest to create a backward “c” so the the tail nearly meets the head which is connected to the brain stem.The top of the brain stem should be completely covered.
For added realism, use a pointed tool to draw vertical lines on the portion of the hippocampus connecting to the brain stem.
 Pinch off a blob of clay that is just large enough to fit into the gap created by the curve of the hippocampus. Roll it into a circle and place it directly inside this gap.This will also assist in maintaining the curve of the hippocampus in your model.
 Roll slightly less clay than you used for the hippocampus to create the corpus callosum. Make a long rope roughly the same thickness as the "tail" of the hippocampus. Position it so that it lies directly on top of this curved portion of the hippocampus.


The left end should touch the bottom "head" of the hippocampus. The right end should touch the cerebellum.
 This is the largest portion of the brain which carries a pattern of folds. Create a dozen or so small ropes. Each one should be short and and about as thin as the rope portions of your cerebellum. You will need to attach small, curved ropes to one another and build them around the current curve of the brain.Curve one small rope on the top of the round portion of the cerebellum, but do not allow it to extend down to the side. Fold it around, stacking it on itself, so that it touches the corpus callosum and does not extend further right than the right side of the cerebellum.
Continue stacking, curving, and piecing the ropes together in a similar manner until you make your way around the corpus callosum and touches the left end of the hippocampus.
Use your finger or a clay shaping tool to smooth the outside of the cerebrum. This outer edge should be an even curve.
 Pinch off a small oval roughly one-third the size of the thalamus. Roll this into an oval, then wedge this oval into the front of the brain, in between the bottom edge of the cerebrum and the upper edge of the brain stem pons.