 Most moody teens are simply struggling with the many changes they are experiencing in their lives. Occasionally, however, teens experience more serious anger. If you recognize any of these signs of dangerous anger, immediately contact a mental health professional:


Cries for help -- statements that your child intends to do some sort of harm.
Extreme identification with one group or affiliation. If your teen expresses a desire to “go to war” with other groups, he’s crossed the border into dangerous thinking.
Complete lack of communication. It’s normal to struggle to communicate well with your teenage child, but the situation has become dangerous if your child stops talking to you or her peers altogether. This is a sign of serious alienation.
Violence. Pay attention to behaviors such as hitting or vandalism, as these behaviors can escalate.
Dropping out, not only from school but from activities your child formerly enjoyed. It’s one thing for your child to reach high school and decide he’s tired of playing soccer, but a teenager who stops identifying with others altogether may become capable of doing them harm.
Substance abuse, especially combined with any of the above behaviors. Remember that substance abuse can include misuse of common household items such as “sniffing” glue or stealing prescription drugs from your medicine cabinet., Watch for the following signs that your child needs treatment for depression:


A depressed mood or feelings of sadness most of the time.
Near-total lack of energy.
Lack of interest or motivation.
An inability to enjoy activities that he used to enjoy.
Withdrawal from family or friends.
Feelings of anger, irritability, or anxiety.
An inability to concentrate.
Significant changes in weight (loss or gain).
Significant changes in sleep patterns, from insomnia to sleeping all the time.
Feelings of guilt or lack of worth.
Thoughts of death or suicide.
Failing grades at school., The form of action you take will depend upon the gravity of your concerns.


If you’re concerned your child is engaging in destructive behavior short of dangerous anger or depression, approach her with information rather than a challenge. Provide literature and Web links. Doing so demonstrates respect and regard for his ability to make better decisions in the future.If you are concerned your child may be a danger to herself or others, seek help immediately. Contact your doctor, a mental health professional, or your child’s school counselor.

