 If you are being kicked out, or if your living situation has become hostile and dangerous since you came out, you may need to find another place to live.Start with family if you can. Ask relatives who support you if you can stay with them.


Talk to your friends and the parents of your friends. Ask other adults as well—your teachers, even your doctor might know a place you can stay.
Explain why your parents are kicking you out. You might say "My parents are forcing me to leave their home because they don't approve of my sexual orientation. They think I'm doing it on purpose to hurt them."
If that fails, locate a homeless shelter: http://nationalhomeless.org/references/need-help/ or a homeless youth shelter: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/fysb/grants/fysb-grantees


, If you're in school, and you're being punished for being LGBT, you should find safe places. If students are bullying you, inform your teachers and the principal as soon as you can. Tell multiple teachers—if you just tell one, they might not do anything.


If your school fails to protect you from bullies, or if your school itself is bullying you, file a complaint with the Office for Civil Rights within 180 days of the incident.You can find the form here: http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/complaintintro.html

Your school is not allowed to discriminate against you on the basis of sex stereotypes, sexual orientation, or transgender status.
 Check to see if your school has an LGBTQ club or GSA (Gay Straight Alliance). Join it! Make as many LGBT friends as you can—they can help you through the worst times.


Look for after school programs that include LGBT students. Try out for theater, choir, and other arts activities. See if any of the sports teams have openly gay or transgender members.
Ask your friends to walk with you if you are being physically harassed in the halls, and do the same for them.
If your school employs proctors, campus police officers, or other security, make friends with them. Let them know if anyone is bothering you, so that they know to keep an eye out for that.
 If you live with your family, your parents may push you to attend therapy when they learn you are LGBT. Therapy can be helpful when you are dealing with the stress of your parent's pushback. However, refuse to see a homophobic or transphobic therapist, and avoid gay conversion therapy if you can.


Don't agree to any therapy intended to "fix" your gender or orientation—it doesn't work, and it can be very negative and stressful.Let your parents know that the American Psychiatric Association has strongly condemned any therapy that tries to change gender identity or sexual orientation.
Agree to therapy if you can pick the therapist. Ask your parents to also visit a therapist.
Find a therapist near you who specializes in LGBT youth if you can: http://locator.apa.org/

If you can't find a specialist, call your potential psychologist on the phone and ask them what their stance is on homosexuality or transgender identity. If they have a positive answer, make an appointment with them. If they say they believe these conditions are "choices" or "curable" or "an issue," hang up!

