 Your anti-aging breakfast should include a lean source of protein. High fat protein sources can lead to inflammation, which can increase signs of aging. You can choose leans sources of meat, like turkey bacon or chicken sausage. You can also add protein to your breakfast by eating lentils, beans, tofu, or dairy.Think outside the cereal bowl and eat a cup of last night’s lentil stew for breakfast.
 This breakfast staple contains all the essential B vitamins, which can help improve memory and brain function. Eggs also contain lutein, which can help protect against the loss of vision that may occur as you age.Add an egg to a toasted whole grain English muffin and top with sliced avocado.
Pair scrambled eggs with a piece of fruit or a green smoothie.
 No matter what you choose to prepare as an anti-aging breakfast, nuts are always a great addition and healthy source of nutrients. Nuts are rich in healthy fats, proteins, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. They also come in a handy variety of choices.


Nuts are great by the handful. Sprinkle a handful of nuts on top of a bowl of fruit and yogurt. For a light, on-the-go anti-aging breakfast, you might also grab a single-serving package of unsalted almonds, walnuts, pistachios, cashews, or pecans on your way out the door.
Nut butters are another good choice. While raw nuts often have more benefits than typical store- bought peanut butter (especially with added sugar and salt), consider spreading natural almond, peanut, or cashew butter on some whole grain toast or on some fruit. Nut butter is also good for older adults who find it hard to chew.
 Oats are rich in soluble fiber, which can help reduce “bad” cholesterol. Oats also contain antioxidants, which may help prevent cell damage, reduce fine lines and wrinkles, and make your skin appear plumper. Oats are also low-glycemic, which means they won’t cause a spike in blood sugar.Add a handful of your favorite fruit to a bowl of oatmeal for a quick, anti-aging breakfast.

