 While it's impossible to say that "steak" means any one cut, it does tend to mean certain cuts over others. Choose one that suits your liking, taking taste, juiciness, and price into consideration:



T-bone: T-bone steaks are strip steaks and filet mignon separated by a bone shaped like a "T." It is a fan-favorite, but the fact that it comes from the cow's loin — where meat is extremely tender — makes it a little pricey.Porterhouse: Part tenderloin and part strip steak, the porterhouse is surprisingly like the T-bone steak, with a thin wedge of a bone between the two cuts to impart loads of flavor.Almost identical in price to the T-bone.

Rib Eye: Ribeye comes from the rib of the steer, hence its name. It is what many of us think when the word "steak" comes to mind: It has beautiful marbling (thin layers of fat in between meat), giving it a silky texture and a robust taste.New York strip: New York strip steak comes from the short loin, a place where muscle is seldom used and therefore particularly tender. Although not as tender as a ribeye, New York strip steak has great marbling as well.

Sirloin: "Sirloin" can refer to either top sirloin — a tasty but expensive cut of meat — or the bottom sirloin, in which case it's just called a sirloin steak. This cut comes from the rear back of the animal, near where the T-bone and porterhouse are.;
, Why are thick steaks better than thin steaks? With thin steaks, it's nearly impossible to get a perfectly brown, crispy outside and a pink, juicy interior. With thick steaks, getting that balance is a lot easier. It's always possible to share a 12 or 16 ounce steak with two or more people, and sharing one big steak between two people is always better than having one small steak per person.
 To soak or not to soak — that is the question. Many steak aficionados frown on the idea of adding anything but salt and pepper to a great cut of meat. And for good reason: The meat itself is supposed to shine. But if you do decide that you want to marinade your steak, now's the time to do it. Here are two simple ideas to add extra flavor to your steak if you so choose.


Marinade: 1/3 cup soy sauce, 1/2 cup olive oil, 1/3 cup lemon juice, 1/4 cup Worcestershire, 2 pieces crushed garlic garlic, 1/2 cup chopped basil, 1/4 cup parsley.Marinade for 4 to 24 hours before cooking.
Rub: 4 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt, 2 tablespoons fresh ground pepper, 2 tablespoons sweet paprika, 1 tablespoon onion powder, 1 tablespoon garlic powder, 1 tablespoon dried oregano leaves, 2 teaspoons ground cumin., If your steak has been stored in the refrigerator while you waited for the perfect opportunity to grill it, now's the time to take it out. Getting your steak to room temperature will do two things:


Hasten the cooking process. Meat that's warmer takes less time to cook.
Harmonize the doneness of the outside and inside of the steak. If the steak has been refrigerated for a day, it will take longer for the internal temperature of the steak to come up. This means that you risk charring or burning the outside of the steak in order to cook the steak to medium on the inside.
 The bigger the cut of meat, the more generous you should be about adding salt. Remember, there's twice as much meat in a 16 ounce T-bone as there is in an 8 ounce ribeye. Salt accordingly.


Salt in advance. While some people salt up to four days in advance, only 40 minutes or so is strictly necessary.You can salt your steak and wait the requisite 40 minutes while it gets to room temperature.
Why no pepper? Pepper can burn during the cooking process, while salt cannot. Burnt pepper doesn't taste very good, so it's better to apply it after the cooking has taken place.

