 This movement targets the soleus calf muscles. Sit on the machine with your toes on the lower portion of the platform and your heels extending off. Your lower thighs go under the lever pad, and your hands go on top of the lever pad to keep it in place. Lift the lever by pushing your heels up, then slowly lower your heels by bending at the ankles. Now extend the ankles as high as possible, contracting the calves, and hold.


Repeat at least 10 - 20 times.
Add weight to increase the difficulty of the exercise. You can also change the way in which the muscles are targeted by changing the angle of your feet. Perform a set with the toes pointed inward, then perform a set with your toes pointed 45 degrees outward.;
, You can do this exercise with a machine or a calf block. Stand under the machine or with the balls of your feet on the calf block, starting with your heels about 3 inches (7.6 cm) below the block. Raise up on the balls of your feet as high as you can, then contract your calf muscles at the peak. Hold the position, then lower yourself back to starting position.
 This exercise is also known as the donkey raise. Sit on a leg press machine. Hold the footplate with your toes and the balls of your feet. Press it by raising your heels and breathing out. Extend your ankles as high as possible as you flex your calf. Your hips and knees should remain stationary at all times. Hold the position, then lower your heels as you bend your ankles.









The key is to make sure all of the weight is put on your calf; be sure you don't bend your knees or use other muscles to press.
You can increase the difficulty of this exercises by adding weights.
 Place yourself in a position for a squat, holding your arms at your sides. Bend your knees to lower your body, moving to the balls of your feet and toes as you squat. Now jump upward explosively, keeping your hands at your sides. Land on the balls of your feet and squat again upon impact.


Doing this exercise frequently is a good way to build muscle quickly. The explosive movement is what encourages the muscle to build fast.
Don't use a barbell or dumbbells with this exercise. You need to be able to jump freely and explosively, and a barbell or dumbbells would inhibit this movement too much.
 Stand in front of an exercise box that you can easily jump upon. Your toes should be pointed toward the box. Jump explosively so that you land on the box with the balls of your feet. Jump back down to the floor, then repeat.


Be sure the box you use is anchored to the floor so that it doesn't slide and cause you to fall.
Don't use dumbbells during box jumps, since you might need to use your hands to catch yourself if you fall.
 Jumping rope is one of the easiest and fastest ways to get bigger calves.


For this to work, you have to push yourself to jump rope for long periods of time (about 5 minutes to 10 minutes).
 It's necessary to complete the full range of motion with every rep to engage the entire muscle. Your calves are already used to getting a little workout every time you climb the stairs or go for a walk. To make them grow, you need to put them through a workout they don't get on a daily basis.Most calf exercises entail maintaining a slight bend at your knees to lower your body and then straightening back up. Be sure you drop as far below horizontal as possible and rise up as high as possible to get a full range of motion on an exercise.
 You should be working on your calves two to three days a week for maximum gains. Calf muscles need time to recover,, Doing the standard calf exercises, over and over, is the best way to get bigger calves. The standard calf exercises - seated and standing calf raises, leg presses, and jumps - are designed to engage the muscles without injuring them. You can try other exercises if you become bored with the old standards, but you might just slow yourself down on your quest to get bigger calves.
 Calves won't grow unless you put them through some pain. Again, since you use your calves every day, especially if you are physically active, your calves are already used to having strain put on them. That means that when you're working out you need to go all in and keep exercising until they burn.


Some bodybuilding instructors advise that you shouldn't worry about counting reps when you're working your calves. For each exercise, do as many reps as you can before they burn too much to keep going.You can extend a set by shaking out your calves after performing several reps, then resuming., Training without shoes allows your feet, legs, and most importantly calves to engage in a greater range of motion. Without the aid of shoe padding and springs, your calves are forced to do more work.Going without shoes and socks also helps your feet get a better grip on the mat, so you won't be as prone to slipping when you're lifting heavy weights.If you are barefoot, look into exercising on a shock absorbent floor. Jumping or high-impact movements on a hard floor such as cement can lead to joint injuries.
 Bodybuilders who are big everywhere else often have the most trouble getting bigger calves. It can take months, and sometimes years, to build calves, especially if your legs are naturally on the skinny side. If you keep up your routine and make sure to get plenty of calories, you will eventually see the results you want. Don't give up too quickly.


Do take into account that genetics play a role in how large your calves can get. You can build muscle through exercise, but know that genetics might predetermine that you have smaller or larger calves. The important thing is health and function, not size.
 Building bigger muscles, no matter what part of the body you're targeting, requires fueling yourself with a balanced diet. Make sure you are getting your daily recommended amounts of protein, fat, and carbohydrates, and providing your body with fresh fruits and vegetables.


Avoid eating calories in the form of saturated fats and sugars. Don't eat a lot of fried foods, snack foods, fast foods, and desserts. Avoid white flour and sugar. Foods containing these will make you feel run down instead of energized.
 Protein is key to building big, healthy muscles. Make sure you're getting it by eating beef, chicken, fish, lamb, and other sources of animal protein. If you are a vegetarian, eat eggs, legumes, leafy greens, and tofu, are potential sources of protein.


Aim to get around 0.7 to 0.8 grams of protein per pound of body weight to help you build muscle mass.
 Creatine is a nitrogenous acid that is created naturally in the body and helps to supply energy to muscle cells. Taking a create supplement has been shown to have the same effect, and it is not harmful if you take the recommended dosage.Try supplementing your meals with creatine to get bigger calf muscles.


Creatine comes in a powdered form and is mixed with water just before you take it.
Read the directions on the creatine package and take no more than the recommended dosage of 20 grams per day.

