 Editing is one of the most important aspects of publishing your book. A poorly edited book will not attract readers, reviewers, or potential publishers. Editing gives your eBook a professional appearance and makes it more pleasant to read.


Fix all grammar and spelling issues. Too many grammar and spelling problems can render a text unreadable. Use a word processor like Microsoft Word or Google Docs to find spelling and basic grammar mistakes. The programs are not, however, a replacement for human eyes. They can only detect spelling errors for words that do not exist. If you have simply typed the wrong their/there/they’re, the computer will probably not catch it. Grammar errors are much the same.
Read it. Read the book yourself, all the way though. This will help you catch grammar and spelling mistakes but it can also give you a better sense of how the book fits together as a whole. Look for scenes which don’t work next to each other, characters who seem to change personality from one chapter to the next, or major changes in writing style. Since authors usually write their books over long periods of time and rarely write them straight through, it can lead to pieces of story that don’t fit next to each other.
Read it aloud. Once you have read the text all the way through, one of the best editing methods is to read the text aloud. This will keep your brain from auto-correcting missing words, incorrect words, grammar and spelling errors. It can also alert you to unnatural-sounding dialogue.
 Have a fellow writer read it through, from beginning to end. They will be able to look at it from a writer’s standpoint, looking for weaknesses in structure, characterization, and word choice. This works best if it is a neutral party, but an objective friend can work just as well.


Have someone read it that normally reads books in the same genre. Only someone who reads similar books will really be able to appreciate your book. They will help you determine if you have written it in such a way that it reaches its intended audience and connects with them.
 If you don’t have the ability or the resources to edit the book yourself, you can hire an editor. There are a large number of freelance editors. Choose one who is reputable and reliable. If you are trying to do this cheaply, you can contact the English department at your local university and advertise for an editor. Students in the subject will be attempting to build a resume and will appreciate the opportunity and the money but their quality of work may not be as high.
 If you don’t want to deal with editing or publishing an eBook, you can use an eBook aggregator service, which will do these things for you. Beware, however. This will not only be expensive but there is also a great deal of opportunity for you and your work to be taken advantage of. Use reputable services and don’t sign on to anything that makes you uncomfortable.
 Before you begin formatting your eBook, you will need to decide which device or devices you want it to be available on. You can make it available on all ereaders to maximize your audience or you can have it only available on one and take advantage of programs offered by companies like Amazon when you make your book exclusive.
 Once you have decided the device or devices, you will need to decide your distributor. Where do you want your eBook sold? You can make it available on websites like Barnes and Noble, Amazon, or Google Play. You can also have it on lesser known eBook distributors or on its own website entirely.If you sell the book on it’s own website, you will gain a larger cut of the profits but miss out on a larger audience and marketing tools.
Again, certain distributors offer incentives to keep your book exclusive to their service. Investigate these programs to help you make your decision.
Kindle Direct Publishing: this is Amazon’s distribution service.
Smashwords: this service publishes to most major booksellers, with the exception of Kindle.
Nook Press: this is Barnes and Noble’s distribution service.
Lulu: this service is notable for distributing eBooks to the Apple store, an otherwise complicated process.

