 This is the first step in making your own jewelry. If your wire is bent when you cut it, it will also be bent when used to make your jewelry, as it is very difficult to straighten the wire after it has been cut.


Begin by holding the spool with a length of wire unrolled. Using nylon jaw pliers, pull along the length of the wire until it is straight. You can turn the wire or hold it at a different angle occasionally, to ensure that it is straight on all sides.
 You will want to use “flush cutters,” which are specially designed for jewelry making. They allow you to achieve two different ends for the wire by leaving one side flat and one side angled.


Know which side of the cutter results in which type of cut and use it accordingly. Be careful when using these cutters as they are very sharp.
Do not use dull cutters as this is a common way to hurt yourself. If the cutters are not sharp enough, you risk that they will slip on the wire.
 Bending wire at sharp angles is another necessary skill for jewelry making. This is easily accomplished using pliers, preferably bent chain-nose pliers. Simply grasp the wire with the pliers and bend with your finger until the desired angle is achieved.
 You can make loops at the end of a wire very easily. This is useful for making several jewelry components. Begin by grasping the wire with a pair of round nose pliers, such that only a very small amount of wire is poking through the other side of the pliers. Then proceed to bend the wire around the jaw of the pliers until a p-shaped loop is formed.


You can further center this loop by grasping the wire with your round nose pliers at the point where the loop begins and bending it back slightly. This frequently results in the loop opening but it is easy to re-close.
 Attaching a clasp is a necessary finishing process for necklaces and bracelets. The easiest method of attaching a clasp is to use a crimper. When you have finished threading all your beads, place a crimper at the end. Loop the wire through the end loop of the clasp and then back through the crimp bead. Thread the wire through a few of the ending beads, pull tight, close the crimper by squeezing it with the cutters, and then trim the excess wire.
 Necklaces and bracelets should be made according to your personal preference but rings will need to be carefully sized. Use a ring sizer or measure your finger by wrapping it in thread and comparing the measurements against the standard sizes, found easily online.

