 You can access your router by entering its IP address into your web browser. Most routers have this IP address printed on the sticker affixed to the bottom. If your router does not, or you don't have access to the physical router, follow these instructions to find it.


If you are using a Mac, skip down to the next section.;
, This will open the "View network status and tasks" window.
 it will have an icon indicating the type of connection you are using (Wi-Fi, Ethernet, etc.).


Make sure you're connected to the router's network.
 This will display a list of entries.
 The IP address listed here is your router's IP address.Make a note of it and skip down to the Installing Router Updates section below.
 You'll access your router's configuration page by entering its IP address into a web browser on your computer. Most routers have the IP address printed on a sticker on the bottom. If your router doesn't have this sticker, or you can't physically access the router, follow the instructions in this method.


If you are using an Apple AirPort router, see the Updating an AirPort Router section below instead.
 This will open a new System Preferences window.
 This will display all of your network connections.
 It will have a green indicator next to it, and will say "Connected" underneath.


Make sure you're connected to the router's network.
 This will open a new window.
 This is the IP address for your router.
 Some routers are setup to not allow access to the configuration page if you are connected via Wi-Fi. Connecting via Ethernet will help ensure that you can properly access the configuration tools.
 You can find this address by following the methods outlined above.


Enter the address as if you were visiting a webpage.
 When you try to open the configuration page, you'll be prompted to enter your router login information. If you don't have this information saved, you can try some of the common defaults:


Try leaving both fields blank. Many routers don't have any username or password required.
Try entering "admin" as the username, and then leave the password blank. If that doesn't work, enter "admin" as the password as well.
Look up your router make and model at routerpasswords.com. This will display the default login information.
If the default login information doesn't work, and you can't figure out how to log in, you can reset the router by pressing and holding the physical Reset button on the back. This will erase all of your router's settings, possibly disrupting your wireless network if you changed any default settings for it. You can then use the default login.
 The name of this page will be different for every different router manufacturer. The location varies, but you can usually find it in the "Administration," "Utilities," or "Maintenance" section.
 Many routers have a button that will check to see if a new version of the router's firmware is available.
 Depending on the router, you may be provided a link to the latest firmware version, or the router may even be able to download it on its own.
 If there is a newer version of the firmware available, but no links are given, you'll need to download the firmware from the manufacturer. You can get these files from the Support sections of these sites.


Perform a web search to find the support site. For example, searching for "Netgear support" will get you the netgear.com/support link.
 You can find your router model number at the top of the configuration page. Enter this model number into the search on the manufacturer's website.
 Depending on the router, there may be a single firmware files, many different ones, or none at all. Download the latest version, either by date or by number. The file will usually download in ZIP format.


Make sure you don't download a version earlier than the one you're using. You can see what version you're using on your router's firmware update configuration page.
 After the firmware file has finished downloading, double-click the downloaded ZIP file to open it, then click "Extract" to extract the contents. This will usually give you one file with an unfamiliar extension.
 Back in your router's firmware update page, click the "Choose File" button and navigate to your newly-extracted file. Select it and then click the "Upload" button in the router configuration page.
 Once the file is uploaded, the firmware update process will begin. You'll typically see a progress bar, and the update process may take 3-5 minutes. Your router will likely reset afterwards, which will disconnect you from the network for a few moments.
 If the firmware update doesn't work, and you can no longer connect to the router, you can manually reset it and try again. Press and hold the Reset button on the back of the router for 30 seconds to reset it to factory defaults. You'll need to reconfigure your network if you made any changes to the default settings previously.
 This program allows you to change your AirPort router's settings. You can find the Utilities folder in your Applications folder.


If you're using an iOS device, you can download the AirPort Utility from the App Store.
The AirPort Utility is only available on Mac OS X and iOS devices.
 The base station icon may have a red badge number indicating that an update is available, but this may not appear until after you've entered your password.
 This button only appears if an update is available. Click "Continue" when prompted to confirm.
 This may take several minutes to complete. You will be disconnected from the network for a short time during the update process.