 Food gives you energy and activates the stomach muscles, both of which can keep you up. If you plan on going to sleep at 11 P.M., don’t eat anything more from about 9:30-10 P.M., unless you’re very hungry. If this is the case, eat a small amount of food.;
, If your hair is going to be wet when you go to sleep, blow dry it.
 Studies have shown that screen time at least an hour before bed can keep you from falling asleep.
 Instead of going outside to do something or exercise, read a book, talk with family members, or write in a daily journal. This goes for work as well. If you try to finish that to-do list of yours, your mind is going to keep working, even as you try to fall asleep.
 If it is supposed to be down in the 30s, a robe and slippers can help you stay warm. On the other hand, if it is supposed to be up in the 90s, try sleeping in your undergarments, or even try sleeping naked.
 If it is cold, you are going to need a warm blanket or quilt. If it is warm, perhaps a cool wet towel will help you cool down.
 This way, you can feel as clean as you need to be before falling asleep.
 Write down the outcome of your action--e.g. "finish that Physics science project"--and the next physical action you need to do to complete it--e.g. "go to the store". This should help your mind "leave it on paper" and quiet down.
 Some need pitch black to sleep at night, and others prefer a little light that is dim. Have the lighting at a comfortable brightness/darkness so you can sleep at ease.
 Find a good position and enough warmth to help you stay still and calm.
,,, Sleep is all about not thinking. Distract yourself and you will fall asleep.
 Don't replay your day in your mind, or think of what you did or did not do. Remember the goal is to not think, and you can redo or fix anything you're worried about the next day. Always jot down thoughts you think could avert your focus while trying to sleep in a journal where you can refer to them later but of the utmost importance your journal gives you an outlet to vent. Which is cause for a better nights sleep.
 Don't think too much into anything that crosses your mind.

