 Avoid being drawn into a heated exchange. Resist the urge to respond right away to every action or comment. Always give yourself a moment to reflect before proceeding.Not only will this give you an opportunity to compose yourself and reconsider potential missteps, but it may encourage the other person to do the same. For example:


Say you're dealing with a neighbor who throws lots of loud parties, and when you complain about the noise, they cite the family reunion you just held a month ago, even though that was the only loud gathering you've hosted all year. Instead of getting snippy right away, reflect on that. Acknowledge that it was a loud gathering. Show them that you are listening to what they have to say so they feel heard.
 Keep a careful watch over your own thoughts and reactions. Recognize when you react negatively to someone. Then investigate the reasons behind that reaction. Distinguish between offenses that can be objectively called “bad” and other offenses that really only offend you personally.For instance, an offense that could be objectively called bad would be physically harming someone else for no reason whatsoever.
On the other hand, an offense that only offends you would be disagreeing with your opinion about a TV show.
 Whenever someone says or does something you don’t like, take an honest look at yourself before judging them. Ask yourself if you are guilty of the same. Be aware that we often react the strongest to other people’s flaws when they happen to mirror what we don’t like about ourselves.When you find this to be the case, cut the other person even more slack. Don’t judge them too harshly for what might have been out of character for them just because you’re hypersensitive about your own shortcomings. For instance:


Say you've been having doubts about your new relationship, and your new boyfriend or girlfriend seems quite taken by someone else whom they just met, which makes you feel jealous. Maybe they really are smitten, but maybe their excitement is simply due to a shared interest that you personally don't share. Either way, recognize that your perspective might be distorted by your preexisting doubts before acting too rashly.
 If someone demonstrates that they definitely have qualities that you do not like, remember: everyone on Earth is going to have qualities you don’t like about them. Redirect the conversation to topics that make you more comfortable. Keep your focus on the other person’s positive qualities by steering them away from areas that make you think poorly of them.For example, if a conversation over politics is making you uncomfortable, make a joke like, “What is this? A Sunday morning talk show? Let’s change the channel to sports.”
If this person is someone whom you have to interact with again and again (like a sibling who is hard to get along with), set firmer rules. Simply say, “Let’s agree to not talk about this subject when we're together.”

