 Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1), Neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) and Schwannomatosis.


NF1 usually appears in childhood. Signs are often present at birth or shortly afterward, and almost always by the age of 10. Signs and symptoms are often mild to moderate, but may also vary in severity.
NF2 is much less common than NF1. Signs and symptoms of NF2 usually arise out of the development of benign, slow-growing tumors (acoustic neuromas) in both ears. Also known as vestibular schwannomas, these tumors grow on the nerve that carries sound and balance information from the inner ear to the brain. Signs and symptoms generally appear in the late teen and early adult years, and can vary in severity as a rule.
Schwannomatosis is a rare type of neurofibromatosis that usually affects people after the age of 20. Schwannomatosis causes tumors to develop on cranial, spinal and peripheral nerves — but not on the nerve that carries sound and balance information from the inner ear to the brain.;
,


In NF1, these include

Light brown, flat spots on the skin (cafe au lait spots). These harmless, occasional spots are common in many people, but having more than six cafe au lait spots is a strong indication of NF1. They are usually present at birth or appear during the first few years of life and then stabilize.
Freckling in the armpits or groin area, usually appearing by 3 to 5 years of age. Freckles are smaller than cafe au lait spots and tend to occur in clusters in skin folds.
Tiny bumps on the iris of the eye (Lisch nodules). These harmless nodules can't easily be seen and don't affect the vision.
Soft bumps on or under the skin (neurofibromas). These are benign tumors, which can also grow inside the body. If such a growth involves multiple nerves, the condition is known as plexiform neurofibroma.
Deformities of the bones. Abnormal bone growth and a reduced bone mineral density can cause bone deformities such as a curved spine (scoliosis) or bowed lower leg.
Optic nerve tumor, also known as optic glioma). These tumors usually appear by age 3, rarely in late childhood and adolescence, and almost never in adults.
Larger head size. Children with NF1 tend to have a larger than average head size due to increased brain volume.
Short stature. Children with NF1 often are below average in height.
Learning disabilities. Impaired thinking skills are common in children with NF1, but are usually mild. Often there is a specific learning disability, such as problem with reading or mathematics. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is also common.


Neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) is much less common than NF1. Signs and symptoms of NF2 usually result from the development of benign, slow-growing tumors (acoustic neuromas) in both ears. Also known as vestibular schwannomas, these tumors grow on the nerve that carries sound and balance information from the inner ear to the brain.

In NF2, signs and symptoms generally appear in the late teen and early adult years, and can vary in severity. These can include 1. Gradual hearing loss, 2. Ringing in the ears, 3. Loss of balance and 4. Headaches.
NF2 can sometimes lead to the growth of schwannomas in other nerves of the body, including the cranial, spinal, visual (optic) and peripheral nerves. Signs and symptoms of these schwannomas can include 1. Numbness and weakness in the arms or legs, 2. Pain, 3. Difficulty in maintaining balance, 4. Facial drop and 5. Vision problems or the development of cataracts.



Schwannomatosis is a rare type of neurofibromatosis that usually affects people after the age of 20. Schwannomatosis causes tumors to develop on cranial, spinal and peripheral nerves — but not on the nerve that carries sound and balance information from the inner ear to the brain. Because tumors don't usually grow on both hearing nerves, schwannomatosis doesn't cause the hearing loss experienced by people with NF2.

Schwannomatosis causes chronic pain in different body parts. Other symptoms include numbness or weakness in various parts of the body.
 You need to see your physician if you or your child develop(s) signs or symptoms of neurofibromatosis. The tumors associated with neurofibromatosis are often benign and slow growing. So although it's important to obtain a timely diagnosis, the situation is not an emergency.
 The biggest risk factor for neurofibromatosis is a family history of the disorder. About half of people with NF1 and NF2 inherited the disease. When there is no history of inheritance, the cause is new gene mutations.


NF1 and NF2 are both autosomal dominant disorders, which means that any child of a parent with the disorder has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the genetic mutation.
The inheritance pattern for Schwannomatosis is not so clear. Researchers currently estimate that the risk of inheriting Schwannomatosis from an affected parent is about 15 percent.
 Complications of neurofibromatosis vary, even within the same family. Generally, complications arise out of tumor growth distorting nerve tissue or pressing on internal organs.


Complications of NF1 include the following:

1. Neurological: Learning and thinking difficulties are the most common neurological problem associated with NF1. Uncommon complications include epilepsy and accumulation of excess fluid in the brain.
2. Skeletal: Some children have abnormal bone formation, which can result in bowing of legs and fractures that sometimes don't heal. NF1 can cause abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis) that may need bracing or surgery. NF1 is also associated with decreased bone mineral density, which increases your risk of weakness of the bones (osteoporosis).
3. Visual: Occasionally in children, an optic glioma can develop, affecting vision.
4. Cardiovascular: People with NF1 have an increased risk of high blood pressure and, rarely, blood vessel abnormalities.
5. Respiratory: Rarely, plexiform neurofibromas can put pressure on your airway and cause breathing distress.
6. Hormonal: Benign adrenal gland tumors (pheochromocytoma) may develop, which secrete hormones that raise your blood pressure. A pheochromocytoma is generally surgically removed.
7. Malignant: An estimated 3 to 5 percent of people with NF1 develop cancerous tumors. These usually arise from neurofibromas under the skin or from plexiform neurofibromas. People with NF1 also have a higher risk of other forms of cancer, such as breast cancer, leukemia, brain tumors and some types of soft tissue cancer.
8. Body image: Visible signs of neurofibromatosis — such as extensive cafe au lait spots, numerous neurofibromas in the facial area or large neurofibromas — can cause anxiety and emotional distress over physical appearance, even if they're not medically serious.
9. Problems during times of hormonal change: Hormonal changes associated with puberty, pregnancy or menopause might cause an increase in neurofibromas. Most women with NF1 have healthy pregnancies but will likely need monitoring by an obstetrician familiar with the disorder.


Complications of NF2 include the following:

1. Partial or total deafness,
2. Facial nerve damage,
3. Vision problems,
4. Small benign skin tumors (skin schwannomas),
5. Weakness or numbness in the extremities,
6. Multiple benign brain tumors or spinal tumors (meningiomas) requiring frequent surgeries.


Complications of Schwannomatosis: The pain caused by schwannomatosis can be debilitating and may require surgical treatment or management by a pain specialist.
 The diagnostic process starts with a detailed physical examination and review of your medical history and family medical history.


NF1 often can be diagnosed based on physical examination only. Your doctor may use a special lamp to check your skin for cafe au lait spots. A physical examination and family history are also important for a diagnosis of NF2.
Eye exam. An ophthalmologist can detect Lisch nodules and cataracts.
Ear exam. Tests such as audiometry, electronystagmography and brainstem auditory evoked response can help assess hearing and balance problems in people with NF2.
Imaging tests. X-rays, CT scans or MRIs can help identify bone abnormalities, tumors in the brain or spinal cord, and very small tumors. An MRI might be used to help identify optic gliomas. Imaging tests are also often used to monitor NF2 and schwannomatosis.
Genetic tests. Tests to identify NF1 and NF2 are available and can be done prenatally. Ask your doctor about genetic counseling. Genetic tests for schwannomatosis are limited.
For a diagnosis of NF1, you must have at least two signs of the condition. If your child has only one sign and no family history of NF1, your doctor will likely monitor the child for the development of any additional signs. A diagnosis of NF1 is usually made by age 4.
Genetic testing may help establish/confirm the diagnosis.
 Neurofibromatosis can't be cured, but treatments are available for your signs and symptoms. Generally, the sooner you or your child is under the care of a doctor trained in treating neurofibromatosis, the better the outcome.



Monitoring - If your child has NF1, your doctor is likely to recommend yearly age-appropriate checkups to:

1. Assess your child's skin for new neurofibromas or changes in existing ones
2. Check for signs of high blood pressure
3. Evaluate your child's growth and development — including height, weight and head circumference — according to growth charts available for children with NF1
4. Check for signs of early puberty
5. Evaluate your child for any skeletal changes and abnormalities
6. Assess your child's learning development and progress in school
7. Obtain a complete eye examination.



Surgery and other procedures - Your doctor might recommend surgery or other procedures to treat severe symptoms or complications of neurofibromatosis.

1. Symptoms can be relieved by surgically removing all or part of tumors that are compressing nearby tissue or damaging organs.
2. If you have NF2 and have experienced hearing loss, brainstem compression or tumor growth, your doctor might recommend surgery to remove acoustic neuromas that are causing your problems.
3. Complete removal of schwannomas in people with schwannomatosis can ease pain substantially.
4. Stereotactic radiosurgery delivers radiation precisely to your tumor and doesn't require an incision. Stereotactic radiosurgery might be an option to remove acoustic neuromas if you have NF2. Stereotactic radiosurgery can help preserve your hearing.
5. Auditory brainstem implants and cochlear implants might help improve your hearing if you have NF2 and hearing loss.



Cancer treatment. Malignant tumors and other cancers associated with neurofibromatosis are treated with standard cancer therapies, such as surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Early diagnosis and treatment are the most important factors resulting in good outcome.

Pain management. Managing pain is an important part of treatment for schwannomatosis. Your doctor might recommend: Gabapentin or pregabalin, Tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline, Serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors or Epilepsy medications such as topiramate or carbamazepine.
 Caring for a child with a chronic condition such as neurofibromatosis can be a big challenge. It may help to keep in mind that many children with neurofibromatosis grow up to live healthy lives with few, if any, complications.


Find a primary care doctor you can trust and who can coordinate your child's care with other specialists. The Children's Tumor Foundation has an online tool to help you find a neurofibromatosis specialist in your area.
Join a support group for parents who care for children with neurofibromatosis, ADHD, special needs or chronic illnesses in general.
Accept help for daily needs such as cooking, cleaning, caring for your other children or simply giving you a needed break.
Seek academic support for children with learning disabilities.
Quality support groups with online presence include, among others:

1. Neurofibromatosis Network,
2. Children's Tumor Foundation,
3. Neurofibromatosis, Inc. Mid-Atlantic,
4. Advocure for NF2.



