 Anime and manga characters are not much different from real people. There are shy characters, funny characters, sarcastic characters, etc. Even if you aren't imitating a specific character, having some sort of base personality in mind will help. Once you have a base to work off of, you can add the extras that make the character more anime or manga-like.


Don't know what sort of personality to choose? Try picking one opposite to your own! If you are shy, try acting like a bold or hyper character!
Consider basing your character's personality off of an existing one. For example, you could be cold like Sephiroth from "Final Fantasy 7.";
, If you watch anime or read manga, you will notice that many of the characters' reactions are pretty extreme. Take your desired personality's basic traits, and exaggerate them. If you want to be happy, act extra happy. If you want to be cold or serious, act extra cold or serious.


One of the most notable is Edward Elric from "Fullmetal Alchemist". He gets very upset whenever someone implies that he is short.
There are many emotionless archetypes as well. Instead of exaggerating your emotions, try concealing them and acting cool, calm, and collected.
 Everyone has their own little habit or gesture, such as twirling their hair or a specific way of laughing. Anime and manga characters are no exception. One great example would be L's toe-rubbing in "Death Note." Even if you are acting like a generic character, you can make your acting more believable by including a unique habit or gesture. Here are some ideas to get you started:


A sarcastic character may cock his eyebrow.
A shy girl may play with her hair.
An enthusiastic character my pump his fist into the air.
A tsundere may cross her arms or pout—especially when talking to her crush!

, Similar to habits and gestures, having a quote that you say often can help bring out the anime or manga vibes. One popular example is Naruto, who often says, "Believe it!" Other words and phrases include things like: feh, meh, and baka (idiot). If you have a favorite anime or manga character, you can use some of their most common phrases as inspiration.
 Tsunderes are known for being calm and collected, except when they are around someone they like. In those cases, they are easily embarrassed and often act mean in order to hide their feelings.They will help the one they like, but they will usually say something like:"It's not like I like you or anything."
"I'm only doing this because I like you. Don't get any funny ideas!"
If they accidentally touch someone they like, they might say: "It's not like I meant to do that. Don't take it personally!"

, These are the trademarks of kuuderes, especially in tough situation where everyone else is panicking. They tend to speak monotone and are afraid of showing their emotions or weakness, and are natural leaders.They do have a soft side, however, which they show to the one person they trust. Sometimes it's a love interest and sometimes it's not.Focus less on your emotions and more on the facts. That flower over there? Don't mention how it is beautiful or how it makes you feel. It's a red flower. The end.
Keep your expressions minimal. A tiny, slight smile is fine if someone you like says something hilarious.Kuudere can be snarky or dry witted., Deep down inside, they may want to be social, but are too shy or afraid to go out and open up. Once they get close to someone, they do open up, and are usually cutesy and optimistic.Due to their quietness and shyness, they may come off as a little emotionless, but not cold like a kuudere.


A great way to act shy would be to utter phrases such as "uh" or "um." You could also stutter a bit and talk softly.
Most dandere won't speak unless spoken to, or unless they absolutely have to (ie: being called on in class).You don't have to be completely antisocial. Many dandere have that one special person that they do talk to.