 If you have a Twitter account, you can tweet Dr. Phil by tagging your comment with: @DrPhil. Dr. Phil primarily uses his Twitter account to promote the show, not to interact with viewers. This is not the best way to contact Dr. Phil if you would like a response.


You can follow Dr. Phil's Twitter content and view his profile. Dr. Phil probably does not operate his own Twitter account. You will most likely be corresponding with a member of his staff.
There is a separate Twitter account (i.e. @TheDrPhilShow) for the Dr. Phil's show.
 If you have a Facebook account, consider “liking” Dr. Phil's pageand sending him comments and messages through it. Dr. Phil mainly posts to promote the show and does not interact with viewers. However, his Facebook page is a good place to talk with other people that like the show.


You can comment on articles, statuses, and remarks posted by Dr. Phil or you can make your own public comments on his page. Alternatively, consider sending him a private message by clicking on the blue “Message” button at the top of the page.
Dr. Phil probably does not operate his own Facebook page. You will most likely be corresponding with a member of his staff.
 Dr. Phil updates his blog, “Turning Point,” consistently. You can follow his posts and offer your own ideas in response by leaving him a comment. He probably will not reply to your comment. His blog is more of a community for people that enjoy watching his show.


When you find a post that you want to comment on, you will need to provide your name and e-mail address. Your e-mail address is required, but it will not be made public on the blog. You also have the option of providing a link to your website.
 If you have your own Pinterest profile, you can follow Dr. Phil's Pinterest page and comment on the information he “pins” there.Dr. Phil also has an Instagram page. His name on Instagram is "drphil." If you are a member of Instagram, you can follow him and like and comment on his posts.


You cannot leave any general comments for Dr. Phil on his Pinterest page, but you can comment on any of the content he pins.

