 Choose a purse, book bag, or backpack that will help evenly distribute weight throughout your back. Choose something that has broad, padded straps that can be positioned on both shoulders. , Consistently wearing high heels or flimsy slip ons will put extra strain on your back. Look for shoes with a supportive sole, square toes, and a less than one inch heel. Larger heels force more of your weight forward, which will encourage you to slouch or to overcorrect, which is equally bad for your back., Your feet should touch the floor, your back should be straight, and your neck should be in a neutral position. This will help alleviate back pain as well as straighten your back. You can also buy ergonomic chairs that will encourage you to sit up straight in order to be comfortable. , Consider sleeping on your side, with your hips flexed about 30˚. Bend your knees at about 30˚ as well. Finally, move your neck slightly forward on the pillow to help elongate your spine.


If you sleep on your back, consider putting a pillow under your knees and a rolled towel under your back. This will help relieve pressure on the back, alleviating back pain and encouraging back lengthening.
If you sleep on your side, consider putting a pillow in between your knees to help keep your hips aligned.
Avoid sleeping on your stomach. Sleeping face down puts unnecessary strain on the spine, and can lead to spinal degradation. It can also lead to chronic neck pain and lower back pain in the future., Lifting and carrying heavy objects incorrectly can lead to serious back pain. If you consistently do lots of heavy lifting, consider wearing a back support belt, which will help you maintain good posture while lifting. In addition, be sure to maintain proper form:


Bend at the knees, not the waist. Your leg and stomach muscles are designed to help you carry and lift things, but your back muscles are not. When you go to lift something, be sure to bend completely at the knees instead of bending over to avoid straining your lower back.
Keep the objects close to your chest. The closer the object is to your chest, the less work your back will have to do to hold it up. 