 You have plenty of options. Some of the most common and accessible courses will help you learn a new language, brush up on your art history, gain practical business knowledge, and even learn how to code and otherwise develop the world wide web.;
, Khan Academy is a global online education source that can be useful for people of all ages, offering classes in math, science, computer programming, history, economics, and more. Khan Academy was one of the first free online course providers, and has steadily grown. It has always been free for everyone. As a non-profit organization, it runs on volunteers and donors who share their knowledge and expertise.Courses include practice exercises and instructional videos, and you take them at a self-directed pace.
Khan Academy’s online interface identifies your strengths and weaknesses and adapts coursework specifically to your needs.
Khan Academy also offers online materials specifically for teachers and other educators, that can help monitor in-class performance generally, or focus on a particular student’s progress.
Khan Academy’s courses have been translated into dozens of languages, and the website itself can be set to Spanish, French, Brazilian, English, or Portuguese.
 There are plenty of online language-learning opportunities out there, but Duolingo offers perhaps the most user-friendly and enjoyable language courses that are entirely free. Duolingo literally makes it fun to learn a language by providing an addictive, game-like platform in which you advance based on point and level achievements.Lessons include practice speaking, listening, reading, writing, and multiple choice questions.
Your work is instantly checked and you’re immediately told what content you missed. You will then be prompted to repeat a task with emphasis on the content you are struggling with.
Duolingo also offers a fun and interactive app to use on your phone, meaning you can be more productive in your down time too!

, The Small Business Administration (SBA) is an independent agency of the federal government that was created specifically to assist and advocate on behalf of small businesses. The SBA’s goal is to help people build and grow small businesses. They offer many business classes, which can be found on the Learning Center page of the SBA website.Examples of classes currently offered include “Understanding Your Customer,” “Buying a Business,” and “Taking Your High-Tech Product to Market.”

, OpenLearn is a website that houses a collection of classes in various disciplines. While many of OpenLearn’s classes are academic in nature, some are geared towards everyday skill development.Class categories include Health, Sports, & Psychology; Money & Management; People, Politics & Law; and more.
A few examples of specific classes include “Forensic Psychology,” “Start Writing Fiction,” “Introduction to Cyber Security,” and “What is Poetry?”

