 Before you prepare any food to eat, you should always wash it. Place your squash under running tap water. Turn the squash as necessary to get the full surface cleaned off, rubbing off dirt and grime as necessary. You will be submerging the squash in water after this, so there's no need to dry it., You will need a pot or a pan large enough to submerge the full squash. Place the squash in the pan and fill it with water. This is to see how much water you will need.Allow the water to boil. You should actually remove the squash here, as you don't want to boil it.
Once the water is boiling, you can place the squash back in the pot or pan.
 Reduce the heat on the stove to a simmer as soon as you place the squash in the pan. Allow the squash to simmer for about two to three minutes before removing it from the pot or pan.Make sure to be careful when removing the squash. Use tongs or spoons to lift it from the pan. Do not use your bare hands.
Sometimes, some of the water evaporates during the boiling process. If the squash is not fully submerged in the water, simmer one side for two to three minutes, flip the squash, and simmer for an additional two to three minutes.
 You do not need the bottom or the stem-end of the squash. These parts are not used for cooking. Use a very sharp knife here, as this will cut the squash most easily. Cut an even slice 1/4 of an inch from the top and the bottom of the squash.Your squash will probably still be hot after your remove it from the water. Either use gloves to handle the squash or let it cool for a few minutes before cutting it.
 Take a vegetable peeler and run it along the sides of the squash. The hot water will make the squash's skin come off easily. Running the peeler from the top of the squash to the bottom, peel the squash until you remove all the skin.Check your recipe before peeling the squash, however. Some recipes require you keep the skin on.
You should still let the squash simmer in boiling water, even if you're not peeling it. Squashes are much easier to cut after being softened by warm water.
 Take a sharpened chef's knife and a cutting board. Stand the squash up on the cutting board, with one of the two chopped ends seated on the board. Usually, the non-stem end is a bit wider, and easier to set down on the cutting board. Slice down the middle of the squash, cutting it into two halves of roughly the same size and shape.Make sure to go slowly and have a firm grip on the squash. You do not want to accidentally harm yourself.
 Once the squash is cut in half, you will notice two small semi-circles on either half. These semi-circles will be filled with seeds. Take a spoon and scoop out the seeds. You do not need them when you cook the squash.Many people roast squash seeds, much like they roast pumpkins seeds, so set the seeds aside if you plan on roasting them.
 Lay down each side of the squash on the cutting board. Start with one section. Cut the section in half lengthwise, and then slice the two new halves into long, thin slices. Repeat with the other side. You should be left with a pile of long slices of squash, about half an inch wide. Many recipes require or recommend cubed squash slices. If your recipe calls for this, cut each slice of squash into small cubes., Always work on a stable surface. If your squash slips out of your hand while you're cutting it, you could easily cut your hand with a knife. Place your cutting board on a level surface. It can also help to place a damp towel below the cutting board, as this will help hold it in place., Make sure the blade of the knife is roughly as long as your squash. Trying to cut a squash with a short, stubby knife will be ineffective and increases the likelihood of kitchen accidents.You should also avoid serrated knives, like bread knives, when cutting squash. You want to be able to make quick, clean slices.
 Some squash are easier to cut than others. If you're working with a squash that's very thick and difficult to cut, don't strain yourself trying. This increases the likelihood of the knife slipping from your hands. Instead of pushing yourself too hard, pop the squash in the oven at 375 degrees Fahrenheit and leave it alone for 10 minutes. When you remove the squash from the oven, it should be much easier to cut.Make sure to let the squash cool for a few minutes before handling it when you remove it from the oven.

