 This look can be done with either a side part or a middle part. Comb out your hair, then run the tip of your comb along the part to make sure it's straight., The braids will run from your temples to the back of your hair when this look is complete, so for now you want to gather hair from your temple area and drape it over your shoulders to keep it separate from the back.


The bigger the sections of hair, the bigger your braids will be. If you want small braids, just separate out 1/2 inch sections of hair from either side. For thicker braids, the sections should be 1 to 2 inches wide.
 Leave the side sections out, and create a ponytail with the back of your hair. Position it at the nape of your neck or a few inches higher according to your preference.
 Twist it and lay it in a coil around your hairband to make a pretty ballerina-style bun, then pin the ends in place with several bobby pins. You want the bun to be quite secure, so don't skimp on the bobby pins.
 Start near your temple and make a braid all the way to the ends. The braid can be as tight or as loose as you want.
 It should lay against the side of your head and pass under the tip of your ear before the end reaches the bun. Wrap the end around the base of the bun (several times, if necessary) and use a bobby pin to secure it in place.
 Start near your temple and make a braid all the way to the ends. The braid can be as tight or as loose as you want.
 Do this just the same way as the other side. The braid should lay against the side of your head and pass under the tip of your ear before the end reaches the bun. Wrap the end around the base of the bun (several times, if necessary) and use a bobby pin to secure it in place.
 Pull out a few strands of hair here and there to create a more tousled appearance. Focus on the area around your face, since it's pretty to have a few face-framing strands hanging down around the braids.
 This will help your hair stay messy-looking while holding everything in place and keeping the braids from coming loose.








