 Open a new browser tab or window, and visit the Google+ website

, Hover over or click the home icon at the top left corner of the page, and a list of options will drop down.
 Go down the list, and near the middle you’ll find “Hangouts.” Click this to open the Hangouts page.
 Click the second tab at the top header, which is “Hangouts on Air,” and then click the yellow-orange “Create a Hangout on Air” button. A small box will pop out where you can enter the information for the broadcast you want to make on YouTube.
 Enter the broadcast’s name in the first field of the small box.
 In the second field, tell people what the broadcast is about.
 Below the Description field is the heading “Starts.” It has two options: Now or Later. Choosing “Now” will allow you to broadcast your event right away, while “Later” will allow you to schedule the broadcast to show at your preferred time.


If you select “Later,” a field for date, time, and duration will appear. Set the schedule for the broadcast in these fields.
 The last option in the small box is for Audience. You can set who can view the broadcast as “Public” (default) or manually enter email addresses of the people you want to share the broadcast with.


Setting to “Public” allows everybody in Google+ and users in YouTube to view your broadcast.
If you want a private broadcast, click the X next to “Public” and enter the email address of the people you want to share the broadcast with.
 When you’re done, click the blue “Share” at the bottom of the small box, and you will be taken to your Events page on Google+. In a small video screen on the page, you’ll see a blue “Start” button with a camera icon. Click this to open the Hangouts on Air broadcasting window.


A pop up will appear informing you that the broadcast will air on Google+ as well as your YouTube account. If you want, invite more people to view your broadcast in the pop-up that appears, and click “Invite” to proceed.
On the next screen will be the Terms and Conditions of Hangouts on Air. Click “I Agree” at the bottom and click “Continue.”
Once the Hangouts on Air broadcast window has loaded, click the green “Start broadcast, and a pop-up will appear saying “You’re about to go live on Google+ and YouTube.” Click “OK” to start going live.
You will see the word “Live” at the top right corner and the bottom middle of the window as you broadcast. Chats and messages can be seen on the right panel.
You can broadcast up to 8 hours straight. When you’re done with the live event, click the red “Stop broadcast” button at the bottom.

