 Using a paper towel, wipe all of the lab table with soap and/or the designated cleaning solution provided by the lab instructor. Before even starting a lab, the table needs to be clean in order to make sure that no


microorganisms,
germs,
and waste that could affect the lab that you would be doing that day.;
, Gloves, goggles, and a clean lab coat are safety equipment can help you have a better chance of not inhaling the chemicals in the lab as well as preventing the chemicals from touching the body.


Use a lab coat that covers all of your arms and that goes down all the way to your knees.
Use latex gloves (unless you are allergic to latex, in that case talk to your lab instructor/teacher/supervisor first before you start and use non-latex gloves). Throughout the time you are in the science laboratory you can always throw away your gloves and get another pair.
Use goggles that cover your eyes and nose. The goggles can help prevent chemicals getting into your eyes as well as from inhaling the chemicals used.
 It is important to have an idea of what chemicals you will be using in the lab so you will know what you will be getting into when doing the experiment itself. You need to know what chemicals are actually toxic to the body and which ones are not. The more aware of the chemicals you will be using in the lab, the less chance you have inhaling the toxic chemicals in your body. Try reading in your lab instructions what you will be using before class or even the night before.
 Make sure with each step you do in the lab you are reading and doing it correctly as guided by your lab instructions. Try to read them before class or even the night before. Write notes by each step to help guide you, highlight important steps needed, or even re-write the instructions using your own words. You want to do your lab in the most efficient way to prevent mistakes when using these chemicals.
 A fume hood should be provided in the science laboratory.
 Also, always have the test tubes facing the opposite direction of where your face is.

