 Everyone likes to be around confident people. It is important that you have positive thoughts, feelings, and beliefs about yourself. We are often hard on ourselves when we make mistakes or compare ourselves to others. While these negative thoughts are normal, you can replace them with more positive things.

Focus on the positive instead of the negative. Everyday write down three good things about yourself or three things that went well because of something you did.Did you give someone a compliment today? Did you help your mom with dinner? Did you answer a question correctly in class today? All of these things matter.
Mistakes are a part of life. Instead of beating yourself up about them, think about them as a learning opportunity instead. If you did poorly on a test, tell yourself that you will study harder next time to improve your score.
If you are very critical of yourself and think harsh thoughts, combat those thoughts with positive self-talk. Ask yourself, "Would I speak to my friend like this?"You would never tell your friend that he or she wasn't smart or funny or a loser. You would encourage your friend and talk about all of their good qualities.
Don't be afraid to try new things. It's perfectly fine to not do everything perfectly or be good at everything that you do. Just give yourself credit for trying and doing your best., Everyone is interested in different things (e.g. music, sports, art, theater, anime, science, board games, etc.). It is important that you explore and find what interests you and what you are good at. If you are good at drawing or playing the piano, try to do those things to the best of your ability. Go to art class or music class. Being good at something will help be more confident as well.

Never change your interests based on what you think is popular or what other people like.
It may take time to identify your talents and gifts. If you are not sure what you are good at, ask some people that know you well. Your family, friends, and teachers may have an idea. Ask them and see what they say.
 You may feel like no one else is interested in the same things you are, but you are wrong. There will be people at your school who like the same things you like. You should never pretend to like something or be someone else to fit in. Go where people are that share your interests. Sometimes you have to be assertive and take some action.


Observe other people at school to help identify what they are interested in. Pay attention to the books and magazines they read, graphics on their t-shirts, or just any conversations that you may hear.
If you are interested in something and would like to start a school club around the interest, talk to one of your teachers about starting the process. They will be able to point you in the right direction., Having a positive outlook on life will make you happier and more successful.Try to identify all the good things in your life and believe that you can make good tings happen for yourself. If things don't go your way,find a positive takeaway instead of blaming yourself. When things go right or you do something well, be proud of yourself.

Tell yourself positive things. "If I study hard, I will do well on my test." or "If I join that club at school, I will meet some new friends."
Instead of saying, "I don't fit in because I'm a loser." say, "I haven't found my niche yet, but I'm going to say hi to 2 people I don't know tomorrow."

