 B-1 visas do not authorize employment on a short term or long term basis. If you plan on receiving payment from a US company or payment as a result of selling US products, you will need to apply for a different type of visa., B-1 visas permit the visa holders to perform various business activities.Acceptable business activities include:


Attending or speaking at meetings, trade shows, or conferences.
Negotiating contracts, purchasing or selling goods in commercial transactions, or attending meetings related to litigation.
Consulting with business associates.
Independent research with no benefit to a US institution.
Competing in athletic competitions. This is an exception to the general rule against employment on the B-1 visa. Competing athletes may collect prize money while in the US.
 There are several categories of workers who will need additional authorization in order to gain entry.Domestic servants, personal assistants, and employees of foreign airlines will need to file form I-765 (work authorization) in addition to the application for a B-1 visa.
In addition, domestic servants must demonstrate that they have a residence abroad to which they intend to return; that they have been employed as a domestic servant for a year; that they have been employed by their employer for a year OR that their employer has employed a domestic servant for a year.
Families of B-1 visa holders will have to apply for entrance to the US under a different category of visa, the B-2.
 The US Customs and Immigration Service (USCIS) has to make attempts to verify that you are entering the US for the purposes you are claiming.Therefore, they request evidence from you suggesting that you are entering the US for admissible purposes. You will want to both explain the purpose and specific duration of your trip to the United States. Bring documentation to your appointment at the US embassy or consulate to corroborate your claims. These documents include:


Travel reservations.
Conference / trade show reservations and receipts.
Letters of intent with business partners or letters from business partners.
Contracts, to corroborate an intent to negotiate.
A resume or a curriculum vitae, to demonstrate that you conduct the type of business you claim to.
 Consular officers will assume that an applicant for a B-1 visa has “immigrant intent,” or intent to live in the United States permanently, even if you claim otherwise. So you must show you intend to return home at the end of your trip to the United States. Many of the documents used to prove you intend to leave will be the same as documents showing that you are entering the US for admissible purposes, such as:


Travel plans with return ticket purchased.Evidence of family living abroad, such as school records or marriage licenses; evidence of employment abroad, such as paystubs or resumes; or evidence of property owned abroad, such as the deed or title to real estate.
 If a visitor runs out of money while in the US, they might overstay their visa without intending to. Therefore, the USCIS wants to ensure that visitors have the ability to support themselves while they are here.Bring documents such as:


Bank statements, pay stubs, or tax returns.
 This form declares your intent to enter into the US, but not remain here permanently. This form can be filed online through the Department of State’s website.Once it has been filed, print out the confirmation page and bring it to the interview.


Filing Form DS-160 is the first step in the most important part of the visa application process, which is interviewing with an official at your local US Embassy or US Consulate. You cannot schedule the interview until you have filed Form DS-160.
 If you cannot upload a photo, you’ll need to bring an acceptable photo to your interview.


All photos have to be recent, in color, and in front of a neutral white background.
No sunglasses, hats, headphones, or uniforms are acceptable, but you may wear items that are worn daily for a religious purpose.
There are numerous additional requirements constituting the proper type of photo, and you can see the entire list at https://travel.state.gov/content/visas/en/general/photos.html.
 The most important part of the visa application process is interviewing with the officials at the Embassy or Consulate. The Consular officials conduct an interview to verify that you are entering the US for purposes covered under the B1 visa. You can locate the closest Embassy or Consulate at http://www.usembassy.gov/.


Take care to make your appointment well in advance of the time you need to leave for the trip. The wait times for appointments can vary wildly according to location, and can change according to the whims of political circumstances. While most locations have wait times of only a few days, some locations have wait times of more than 60 days.
In addition to the wait time for the appointment itself, if your application comes under “administrative review,” it can delay your application for another 60 days.
 You may be required to pay the nonrefundable fee before you interview. As of August 2016, this fee is $160.You can find out more about where and how to pay this fee at the embassy or consulate where you plan to apply.


You may also be required to pay a visa issuance reciprocity fee if it applies to your nationality. Find out if this fee applies to you at https://travel.state.gov/content/visas/en/visit/visitor.html


, Bring all of the documents you’ve gathered to your interview, as well as your passport. Be prepared to explain your nonimmigrant intent to the consular officer.


Be sure to dress appropriately and arrive early, just in case there are any complications.
While your interview shouldn't be adversarial, you should expect it to be thorough. The consular officer will most likely question you extensively about your activities in the US.
 Since no assurance can be given in advance that your visa will be approved, you should either withhold the purchase of tickets or buy refundable tickets.


Even if you get a visa, you are still not guaranteed entrance into the US. Any one of a number of factors at the border can indefinitely delay your entrance into the US.
 Most of the visitors in the US on a B-1 visa will not be automatically disqualified from applying for an extension.However, there are some conditions to keep in mind:


Your passport must still be valid.
You must have not overstayed your present visa.
You must not have committed any crimes during your stay.
You must have been eligible for a visa in the first place.
You must not have violated any of the other conditions of the original visa.
 If you would like to enroll in school or receive an offer of employment while here in the US, you might be eligible to do so. You would fill out the same form, just checking different boxes along the way. The appropriate fee may also be different., This is called Form I-539, which can be found at https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-539.pdf. You will also need to attach an updated copy of Form I-94, the Arrival-Departure Record.


They will want to know why you need to extend your stay, how you will support yourself while in the US, and how the extension would affect your employment status in your home country.
You must file the form by mail. You can find a listing at https://www.uscis.gov/i-539-addresses.
Pay the fee. The fee for extending your stay is $290.
 If the UCIS accepts your application, they will notify you at the address you provided. You should be prepared to wait for at least 45 days, but as long as you file on time, you are considered safe for at least the next 240 days or until you hear from the USCIS, whichever is shorter.