 If this is the first time your loved one has tried to explain to you why your beliefs are wrong and theirs are right, try changing the subject as gracefully as you can. If they are perceptive, they will realize that you aren’t interested in this kind of conversation with them.For example, you could say, “That’s really interesting Grandma. I need to go see if Mom needs any help in the kitchen. I’ll be back in a minute and I want to tell you about a big project I’m working on at school.”
You could also be more direct and say, “Grandma, I know you really want me to convert to your religion, but the truth is, I’m just not interested. Can we lay the subject to rest and enjoy our time together today?”
Bring up a really exciting movie that you have seen recently.
Ask them if they’d like something to drink or excuse yourself to the bathroom.;
, Sometimes the problem with religious family members is that they have multiple attempts to try and show you the “right way.” However, if you want religion to not be an issue that comes up over and over, then do your best to approach them lovingly.If you behave defensively towards them, it demonstrates to them that you are not secure in your own beliefs, and that they may have a chance to change your mind.
When they tell you about how great their religion is, say something like, “It sounds like you’ve found something that really makes sense for you. I’m happy for you! I’ve also found a religion that really feels good for me.” This shows them that you support their belief, but that you have different beliefs of your own without being defensive.
 For some, it may be enough if politely explain that, while you respect that they have their own beliefs, yours are different, and that you aren’t interested in being changed.You could say, for example, “I think that it’s admirable that your faith in is so strong. I have my own religious beliefs, and while it is good that you have your own, different beliefs, I’m not interested in converting. Maybe we could talk about something else?”

, Realize that their is a difference between a loved one simply talking about their own beliefs and trying to convert you. Try to recognize that sometimes, they may simply be wanting to talk about a religious belief that is on their mind or something that they read in their holy book. If they aren’t telling you how they have the best religion in the world, and then bashing your beliefs, they probably aren’t trying to convert you.If your loved one seems as though they are just talking about their religion, then don’t shut them down. You don’t have to agree with them, but you also don’t have to make them feel as though religion is a taboo subject around you.

