 Selecting a toothbrush from a store can be overwhelming; the variety of special features, let alone colors, is enough to leave you scratching your head in the dental care aisle. Picking a brush that is right for you is more important than buying the most expensive brush with the most features. Things to look for in a toothbrush include:An appropriate size. Larger toothbrushes can be more difficult to maneuver in your mouth. Most adults are well-served by a toothbrush that is about half an inch wide an one inch tall.
The right bristle strength. Bristles are generally categorized as "soft," "medium," or "hard/firm." Most people do well with a soft-bristled brush, which has the flexibility to clean near gums without causing excess bleeding.
An endorsement. Check to see if a toothbrush you're considering bears a seal of approval from the American Dental Association (ADA). A brush without such an approval is likely fine to use, but it can give you extra peace of mind knowing that your selection has been endorsed by a respectable dental health agency.
Manual or electric? There is no right answer when choosing between a manual and an electric toothbrush. As long as you use either regularly, you will probably have healthy teeth. If you do choose to go electric, be sure that you find an electric brush that oscillates, which is more effective at removing plaque.;
, Brushing your teeth regularly prevents cavities and tooth decay, ensuring the strength and functionality of your teeth. With proper care, your teeth and gums can stay healthy throughout your life. The healthier your teeth and gums are, the less risk you have for tooth decay and gum disease. Brush after meals when possible.Your toothbrush should be placed against your teeth at a 45-degree angle to the gum line, and moved on the tooth surface in a circular and up-down motion.
Do not use too much force or pressure when brushing. Allow the tips of the bristles to reach between the teeth.
Cover all the inner, outer, and chewing surfaces of all your teeth, making sure the grooves and crevices are cleaned well.
Take particular care to clean the inside of the lower front teeth and the outer surfaces of the upper back teeth, as these are the surfaces that tend to collect the most tartar.
Brush your teeth for two to three minutes. Once you finish, rinse your mouth with water or mouthwash.
 Flossing your teeth regularly (usually about once a day) and thoroughly is a great way to ensure that your teeth remain free of cavities and decay. You can choose either Nylon (or multifilament) floss or PTFE (monofilament) floss. Although PTFE is slightly more expensive and shred-free, either floss should effectively remove plaque and debris.Dispense around 18 inches (45.7 cm) of floss from the dispenser.
Wind it tautly around the middle fingers of each hand, keeping a one inch section open for flossing.
Floss the upper teeth first, then the lower teeth.
Hold the floss tightly between the thumb and forefinger and gently guide it between your teeth in a rubbing-sliding motion.
Never use force, as it can damage the gum tissue.
Once it reaches your gum line, make a "C" shape around an individual tooth and then manipulate it in the space between the tooth and gum.
Rub floss against the side of the tooth, moving it in an up and down motion, away from the gums.
Keep using a fresh section of floss as you move from tooth to tooth.
Floss the back of the last molars carefully.
 In addition brushing and flossing to clean your teeth, you can make your mouth fresher and cleaner by using a tongue cleaner. Your tongue can house germs and food particles, so cleaning it thoroughly can help your overall dental hygiene. Use a tongue scraper by placing the edge of the scraper against your tongue and dragging it forward.
A toothbrush, though less effective than a tongue scraper, can still improve your oral health if used to brush the tongue.
A tongue brush with bristles may clean your tongue as well as a tongue scraper. You might even be able to find a toothbrush that includes a tongue brush on the opposite side.
 Gum massage is associated with increased blood flow to the gums, increasing the availability of nutrients and oxygen while removing waste from the gum tissue. You can massage your own gums with your fingers in order to loosen additional food.


Press your index finger on your gum and use a gentle circular motion to stimulate the gums.
Massage all around, and end by using a mouth rinse or warm salt water rinse.
Be aware that massaging your gums can lead to increased sensitivity. The American Academy of Periodontology warns that increasing circulation to the gums can also intensify the sensitivity of irritations from plaque and food particles.
 Fluoride, a naturally occurring mineral, can help strengthen enamel and fight cavities. It can even aid in repairing tooth decay if it is still in an early stage.You may be able to increase your fluoride intake by drinking tap water. Many public water systems add fluoride to the water to help the dental health of community members.You can also apply fluoride directly to your teeth. While it is an ingredient in many commercially available products, you may be able to get a stronger fluoride concentration from a prescription toothpaste or mouthwash product., Brushing your teeth is an important part of everyday oral hygiene, but it's important to take care of your toothbrush to avoid any risk of infection or contamination. Replace your toothbrush when it's worn or frayed, about every three or four months. You should also get a new toothbrush after you have had a cold, strep throat, or similar illness.
Don't share toothbrushes. Sharing a toothbrush may put your mouth at an increased risk of infection. Those with diminished immune systems or infectious diseases should take particular care not to share toothbrushes or any other oral care items.Rinse your toothbrush with tap water after every brushing to remove any remaining toothpaste or other debris. Store your toothbrush upright and allow it to air dry. Keep toothbrushes separate to prevent any possibility of cross contamination.Do not cover toothbrushes or store them in closed containers for long periods of time. If your toothbrush does not have the opportunity to dry out, it becomes more susceptible to the growth of microorganisms. A closed container may accelerate your brush's exposure to these, increasing the risk of infection.
 Be sure to eat a variety of healthy foods, limiting foods that are starchy or high in sugar. Starchy and sugary foods increase mouth acid and can ultimately damage your teeth.


Limit your consumption of junk food/soda or any sugary, sticky foods. These foods stick to teeth and are turned into acid by the bacteria that live in the mouth. Bacteria, acid, food debris, and saliva combine to form plaque, which acts as a base for tartar formation by clinging to the teeth. Acids in plaque also dissolve the enamel structure, creating holes in the teeth called cavities.Eat more fruits and vegetables, and healthier options like brown, whole wheat, or multigrain bread.
Drinking a glass of milk is an excellent source of calcium, which is critical in maintaining good tooth density.
Although Vitamin D has been linked with helping to reduce tooth decay, it has not yet been proven conclusively. It’s important not to rely on vitamin supplements exclusively for maintaining your teeth’s health., You can help "wash down" your food after eating by swigging some refreshing water. In addition to the many other health benefits of water, it can help prevent your teeth from developing plaque., Using cigarettes and other tobacco products can be extremely damaging to your gums. People who smoke are far more likely to develop gum disease. You may find that your smoking habit gives you a number of gum problems, from sensitive gums that bleed to painful sores., Severe heartburn may cause stomach acids to reach your mouth and erode your tooth enamel. A similar effect happens with untreated bulimia, an eating disorder that involves purging, or vomiting, after eating. Get treatment for either condition before your health continues to erode., Know what your mouth looks like when it is normal so that you can better evaluate any changes or problems that may pop up later. Be sure to watch out in changes of color, including spots or growths. Check your teeth for any chipping or discoloration, and report any persistent pain or changes in your bite (jaw alignment) to your dentist.
 Go to the dentist every six months to get a professional cleaning and polishing.The dentist will clean the plaque and tartar from above and below the gum line using special instruments.
This ensures the health of your gums in the long run and prevents any gingival/periodontal/gum disease from developing.
 Medical conditions that seem unrelated to your mouth can nonetheless affect your oral hygiene, so be sure to alert your dentist about:Cancer treatments
Pregnancy
Heart disease
New medications

, A sealant is a coating that is placed over the teeth to protect them from decay. It can only be used on a healthy tooth without decay and it lasts a long time.Sealant is often a good option for children who are getting their healthy, permanent teeth.
 Talk to your dentist openly about any concerns, changes, or questions you may have about any procedures or treatments. You should never be afraid to advocate for yourself and "arm" yourself with information. The following questions can be useful in learning more about your dentist's services and your overall oral care.What is your recommended treatment?
Are any alternative treatments available?
What differences in cost or durability do different treatments have?
How urgent is treatment? What would happen with a delay?
Are there any flexible options for payment, like insurance, discounts, or payment plans available?

