 According to one California based real estate agent, "Neglected properties likely belong to one of two types of people: those physically or financially unable to keep up with the work and those who purposely buck social norms." In some situations, your neighbor may be facing a major life change like a divorce or sickness. Gently bringing your concern to their attention and/or offering to help with their exterior restoration might do the trick. The idea is to focus on your neighbor and not make it about your hopeful sale. Some branches of the National Association of Realtors have funds set aside to assist older or immobile homeowners with maintaining the outside of their homes. Talk to a local, licensed real estate professional and see if their branch supports this program.;
, If your attempts to reason with your sloppy neighbor fail, you may need to review municipal laws managed by your local building or health departments. Laws will vary, but some areas charge large fines for things like keeping piles of wood around that may attract animals, while others areas enforce strict anti-rooster ordinances. Consult your city's website to see if your situation is listed. Keep in mind that getting the attention of your local government can be a tricky, drawn-out situation. However, if your neighbor's neglect has reached dramatic proportions, it's certainly worth a shot.
 Special situations call for special buyers. Your sloppy neighbor won't budge and they're not quite infringing on any municipal laws. Now what? Carefully audit the area you live in. Promote the "uniqueness" of your community. Check with your city's building department and see if any exciting projects, like the creation of a new sports park, are in the queue. Along with professional photos of your well-kept home and details of its cared for amenities, include a positive spin on your area's neglected spots and you just might attract the kind of buyer willing to overlook your sloppy neighbor.
 A professional opinion counts, no matter what tactic you use to deal with the eyesore next store. Many agents have experienced this situation and can guide you as to your best course of action. They will also have the right connections to the kinds of open-minded buyers you'll need in order to move on.

