 If the box opens at one end, arrange the open side up. This way, it'll be easier to measure the inside.


You will need a tape-measure, a ruler, or any other standardized distance reference. You will be measuring your box in either inches or centimeters, depending on your location and your purposes. Be sure to use a reference that displays the relevant units.
Keep writing materials at your disposal: a pen, a pencil, or word processor. You could also use a phone or other handheld device. Write down each measurement as you take it, lest you forget.;
, You will need to know the length, the width, and the depth.If you are trying to figure out whether something will fit inside the box, then you need to measure the inside. Box sizes for mailing and shipping always correspond to the inner dimensions of the container.


Measure the length: Hold a tape-measure or a measuring stick along the longest inner side of the box. Press the tip of the measure into one corner of the box, and stretch the tape along the length of the long side to the adjacent corner. Record the number where the non-zero end of the tape-measure meets the adjacent corner of the box. If the box is rectangular, you can assume that the other "long" side is the same length.
Measure the width: Hold a tape-measure or a measuring stick along the shorter inner side of the box. Press the tip of the measure into one corner of the box, then stretch the tape across the short side to the adjacent corner. If the box is rectangular, you can assume that the other "short" side is the same length. If the width matches the length, then the box is square.
Measure the depth: Press the tape-measure into the bottom of the box, along any side, and stretch the tape up to the open top of the box. Keep the tape perfectly parallel with the creases in the corners of the box, and record the number that sits where the tape measure meets the top edge of the box.
 If the walls of your box are particularly thick, the exterior measurements may differ somewhat from the interior measurements. If the walls are very thin, you can probably just use the interior measurements. In any case, you will need to know the length, the width, and the height.Measure the length: Hold a tape-measure or a measuring stick along the longest outer side of the box. Hold the 0-end of the measure against one corner of the box, then stretch the tape along the length of the long side to the adjacent corner. Record the length.
Measure the width: Hold a tape-measure or a measuring stick along the shorter outer side of the box. As with the length, hold the tip of the measure against one corner of the box, then stretch the tape along the short side to the adjacent corner. Record the width.
Measure the height: Hold the tip of the tape-measure against the bottom of the box, along any side, and stretch the tape up to the open top of the box.
 In most casual cases, you can round to the nearest inch or centimeter.If the box must hold an object of a very specific size, and you are not absolutely sure that the object will fit – record the nearest half-inch, quarter-inch, or eighth-inch. Most tape-measures are accurate to the nearest millimeter (1/10 cm) or 1/16 inch. This is all that the casual box-measurer will need.

