 You'll need grocery bags (typically 1-2, depending on how big your waist is), a pair of scissors, a pencil, a thick string (such as yarn or twine), and either packing tape or a stapler. Having a ruler will also help, but isn't absolutely necessary., Start by cutting along one of the corner seams of the bag all the way to the bottom. Then, cut off the entire bottom of the bag by cutting around the perimeter of the bottom. Your bag should now be in a long rectangle shape.








If you are going to use more than one bag, repeat this step with each bag.
To see how many bags you need to use, wrap one horizontally around your waist. If it goes all the way around you, you only need to use one. If the bag leaves more than a couple inches showing, you'll need to add an additional bag.
You won't always need to use entire bags. For example, it might take a bag and a half of a bag to fit around your waist. It's just paper, so you can cut and tape the exact amount of paper bag that you need.
 If there are any words or logos on the bag, leave them facing upwards. The upward facing side of the bag will end up being the inside of your hula skirt. This way, the words or logos won't show when you're wearing your skirt.
 Drawing an outline for your waistband will show you where to stop cutting when you're making the fringe of your skirt. Take your ruler and measure 1-2 inches down from the top of the bag (depending on how thick you want your waistband to be), and make a small mark with a pencil. Then, place your ruler horizontally on the mark (your ruler should be parallel to the bag), and trace a straight line across the entire top of your bag. This line will mark off the waistband of your hula skirt.
 Starting on the right end of your bag, cut strips into your bag by starting at the bottom and cutting upwards until you reach the waistband outline. Strips should be 1








Repeat this with any additional bags you are using.
Leave the bag(s) laying flat while you do the next step.
 Wrap the string around your waist to see how much you'll need. Be sure to include a few extra inches of string on each side for you to tie and untie your hula skirt. Then, cut the string. After the string is cut, lay it along the waistband portion of the skirt that was not cut. Center the string to leave a few inches on each end of your skirt to tie and untie it.








If you are using multiple bags, lay the bags side by side and tape or staple the end of the waistbands together. You will lay the string along the top of the entire width of your skirt.
 Be sure that the string is secured well to your skirt, otherwise your skirt will not stay on.









Use a heavy-duty tape, like packing tape or masking tape. Tape the string down along the entire waistband.
If using staples, it's best to add a staple every 2 inches.
 Pick the skirt up and tie it onto your body. Use a bow so that it is easy to tie and untie your skirt. The tape or staples should be on the inside of your skirt, so that they cannot be seen from the outside.