 Another way to be rational is to project a more rational self to the people around you. This can begin by speaking about your opinions and your thoughts rationally to others.Everyone has their own opinions, beliefs, likes and dislikes. The difference in a rational individual is their ability to explain, support, or be flexible in the way they think about theirs. Try the following.


Have an explanation or evidence behind your opinions. It is important that you base your opinions on something. Know where your opinions come from and how to discuss them with others.
Be critical about evidence or information that sparks beliefs or opinions.
Be open to changing your opinion if new evidence or arguments are presented.
 Along with being about to speak about your opinions, rational individuals are able to engage in discussions and debates about various issues. Engaging in debate shows others that you are a thinker, open to being challenged and can respond rationally and intellectually instead of emotionally.During a debate you can appear more rational if you do the following.


Be prepared to articulate, explain, and defend your thoughts on an issue. “I disagree. Here's why.”
Admit that someone else has made a good point, even if it is counter to yours. “That's a great point. I had not considered it that way before.”
Be willing to listen to and accept counter arguments if they are well reasoned. “I'm interested in your viewpoint. How did you come to that conclusion?”

, Often people complain about many different occurrences in their lives.Expressing frustration does not necessary show a lack of rational thought. Excessively complaining about the same topics, however, does illustrate a lack of ability to rationally think through the situation and develop a plan or solution. When a situation or a person irritates you, talk about it with a trusted person, but also begin to develop a plan to change it.Start by taking two deep breaths and refocusing your thinking.
Be strategic about what you complain about. Only complain if it is in order to help you find a resolution.
Try to make time goals for yourself, such as going 24 hours without complaining

