 We don't always make the connection between eating right and hair growth but that relationship is there, whether we like it or not. Eating well and getting the right nutrients in your body will help your total health, including helping your hair to grow quicker and thicker.


Foods that are high in protein and omega-3 fatty acids will help your hair to grow quicker and thicker. Some examples of these types of food are nuts and lean fish, such as salmon. You may also want to incorporate more iron and zinc into your diet. This will help with hair follicle growth.If you have a hard time incorporating foods with a lot of iron into your diet, such as red meat, consult your doctor to see if a dietary supplement might be appropriate for you.
 Getting stressed out doesn't help any of your body systems, and even you hair can be affected. In extreme cases, stress can cause you to lose hair, in less extreme cases, it can simply lesson the productivity of body systems, such as hair growth.There are a wide variety of ways to destress or to avoid stress in the first place but each method is highly individualized.


Take time in your day to destress. It doesn't matter how you do it, whether yoga, stretching, meditation, or a nice long walk, but what matters is that you take the time to calm your mind and body from the stress of the day.
Avoid situations that are stressful, if you can. While no one can avoid stress at all times, there are situations we get ourselves into that we could avoid and that we know will be stressful before we even get ourselves into them. If you can avoid these situations, do it! It will help both your mental and physical health.
 Regular exercise promotes good circulation and overall health. This in turn helps your hair follicles to produce stronger thicker hair.Exercise helps you to destress and to produce good hormones and high levels of blood flow.These outcomes are key to healthy hair growth.
 Certain vitamin deficiencies can lead to less hair growth, as well as dry, brittle hair. Fish oil supplements and B vitamins, such as biotin, can help promote the growth of hair.While there is not scientific evidence to prove it's true, some people find that taking prenatal vitamins will help speed up hair, thickening it dramatically.The extra boost of a variety of vitamins and minerals supposedly helps promote the growth of a fetus also add to hair follicle production.
Buy a supplement that promotes hair growth specifically.There are a wide variety of products on the market.

