 Acorn squash takes two and a half to three and a half months to mature, and, like most types of winter squash, can’t be picked before they are ripe.


Extra acorn squash seeds can be saved for six years.;
, If you’d rather not plant your own seeds, you can wait until spring to find seedlings and starts at your farmer’s market or garden center.
 If you have a longer growing season, start your seeds outdoors about two weeks after the first frost.
, Seedling trays are not generally big enough for squash seedlings. Fill the pots with seed mix and sprinkle with warm water before planting each seed one inch (2.5 cm) deep.
 Cover the pot with plastic wrap for the first few days to improve germination. Generally, the seeds sprout within 5 to 12 days.
 They should be ready to transplant into your garden soon.
 You need at least a three-foot (0.9 m) plot in all direction to grow winter squash without overshadowing other vegetables. Your bed should be in full sunlight.


If you don’t have three feet (0.9 m) to spare, build a trellis or use a fence to grow the squash vertically. They can be separated two feet (0.6 m) apart and trained to grow up the support system.
 Aim for a pH content between 5.8 and 6.8 for best results.,, Then, plant in three-foot (0.9 m) mounds with approximately three seedlings per mound. Planting atop a mound ensures that the roots will not rot, since squash require a lot of watering.


If you are planting seeds directly into the garden, plant them in a mound with six seeds per mound. Thin to three plants after germination.Acorn squash that are planted near a fence or trellis will not need to be mounded.
 After the broad leaves start to form, you should weed by hand regularly. The large leaves will shade out some weeds.
 Let it soak for a few minutes to reach the whole root system. Water below the leaves to avoid powdery mildew and scab.
 Cover your plants with netting cheesecloth while they are young, if you have a problem with cucumber beetles., They will have a dark green shell when they are nearing maturity. When the skin is strong enough to resist being pierced by your fingernail, they are ready to pick.
 Use a sharp pair of kitchen or garden shears.
 Find a cool, dry and dark place to store your squash.
 If stored in a less than optimal area, they can last for two to three weeks. If stored in a cellar, they can last several months.

