 Larger companies that are household names tend to be more stable investments than start-ups. You'll still incur some measure of risk. However, companies that have been around awhile have learned how to survive downturns and overcome difficulties.Many of these companies are commonly referred to as "blue chip stocks." They tend to be the most stable, but also the most expensive.
Check the stock market and compare the prices of different stocks you're interested in buying.
Keep in mind that the cheapest isn't necessarily a bargain – nor is the most expensive stock necessarily the best or the safest.
Cull your list by focusing on companies in industries with which you're familiar. If you don't understand an industry or how companies in it make money, you won't know enough to invest successfully.;
, You can learn a lot about a company by visiting its website and reading the corporate press releases and other information there. You also should branch out and look for shareholder reports and other documents that will educate you about the company's performance.Start with information provided by the company itself, but expand your research beyond that. While corporate reports may be factually accurate, most companies at least try to present an optimistic and positive outlook for their future performance.
Look at the stock prices of each company you're evaluating in comparison to other companies of similar size in the same industry.
Figure out whether the company's has consistently outperformed the market relative to competitors.
You want to look at the health of the overall industry in which the company operates. For example, if you're evaluating a technology company such as Microsoft or Apple, look at the trend in personal computer sales and overall market health in the tech sector.
 No company performs well all the time. If a corporation experienced a significant downturn recently, studying how they handled that situation can provide insight into the stability of the stock and the safety of investing in that company.Pay particular attention to what happened to the company's stock prices during the last recession, and how well they've rebounded.
If the company faced a particular crisis recently, figure out what they did in response, and whether that choice paid off. Look at news reports to evaluate how confident stockholders and the public at large are in the company and its ability to perform.
 Companies in any industry can be affected – sometimes severely – by a political, environmental, or economic crisis. The probability of those sorts of events occurring will in turn affect how safe it would be for you to invest in a particular company or industry.For example, the price of oil is extremely volatile based on natural disasters, climate change, and political unrest in the Middle East.
Challenges can come from competitors as well as outside events. While strong competition typically is favorable, you want to watch out for start-ups that could be potential disrupters that are directly competing with the company in which you're looking to invest.
Keep in mind that this doesn't mean you should invest in the disrupter – not if you're seeking safety and long-term growth.
However, you need to be able to evaluate how that disruption could potentially affect the larger, established companies in that industry.
 Find out the company's most recent annualized dividend, then divide that amount by the current stock price. You want to look for stocks that have a fairly high yield relative to other stocks in the same industry.While you can compare a stock's yield to the market as a whole, this won't give you a whole lot of useful information because there are so many diverse companies and industries at play in the market as a whole.
Comparing the stock to that of others in the same industry or market sector, on the other hand, allows you to compare apples to apples (rather than "apples to oranges," as the saying goes), giving you more useful information.
Typically, if a particular stock's yield rate is more than three percentage points higher than the rate of similar stocks in the same industry, it's a recipe for high potential risk.
To choose a safe stock, you want one that's producing at or near the average yield rate for similar stocks in the same industry.
 If you take that annualized dividend figure and divide it by the company's annual earnings per share, you get the payout ratio. A lower ratio means the company could potentially raise its dividend.As with the yield rate, evaluate dividend payout ratios in relation to other stocks in the same industry or market sector.
Some sectors, such as electric utilities, are established industries with slower growth. These typically have higher payout ratios.
On the other hand, industries that grow faster, such as the tech industry, will have lower average payout ratios, because the companies have to reinvest in their business to keep pace with the industry and their competition.
 To stress-test a stock, you want to look in particular at the company's dividend payments over the last few years – particularly during the most recent recession.You typically can find this information by going back to the corporate website and looking for an investor relations page.
Look for growth in payments, and determine whether those payments have been growing quickly.
If you're focused on long-term investment, you want to favor a higher growth rate over a higher yield. A higher growth rate means you'll make more money later, which protects you against inflation.
 Threats to a company's profitability often develop gradually and can be predicted in advance. If a threat is looming that seems imminent, it might not be the best time to invest in that industry.For example, consider political debates about increasing the minimum wage. While raising the minimum wage significantly could improve a lot of people's lives, it potentially would cause damage to corporations such as McDonald's and Walmart that employ vast numbers of people at minimum wage.
When these companies' labor costs increase, their profit margin will decrease, potentially causing a significant drop in the value of their stock.
If you're looking to invest in an oil company, the situation in the Middle East should be a significant concern. If war removes oil supply from the market, even if demand remains static the price of oil will increase dramatically.
 You may have heard the cautionary phrase "don't put all your eggs in one basket." This caution applies to investing, especially long-term investing. Even the safest stock can become too much of a risk if you put all your investment dollars into one company or even several companies in the same industry.When you put all your investment dollars in one place, the value of your investment will rise and fall with the health of that single company.
If the company seems particularly stable, you may not see this as much of a risk. However, your investment will be safer in the long run if you hedge against a potential disaster – regardless of how remote that disaster may seem.
You also want to balance between high-growth industries and industries that grow at a slower, steady rate.
For example, you might want to invest in the tech industry, but also in electric utilities, which offer a dramatically slower growth rate but are less volatile and more predictable.
 Particularly if you're investing for the long term, you want to include stocks in your portfolio that will continue to perform well in a turbulent market. This way, in the event of another recession you won't be at risk of losing everything you've invested.For example, no matter how bad the economy is, people still need food, and people will still get sick.
Investing in food and grocery companies, as well as in the medical sector, can ensure your portfolio doesn't take too much of a hit in the long term if the market crashes.
Makers of basic household products, such as Procter & Gamble, also are considered recession-proof for similar reasons. No matter the state of the economy, people still need to wash their clothes and dishes.
 Some threats can have a negative impact on several different industries. To use diversification effectively to protect your investments, make sure you're not investing in industries that share similar threats.On the other hand, a threat that has a negative impact on one industry could have a positive impact on another.
Having stocks in those two industries would be effective diversification, because when one fell the other would rise.
For example, a war in the Middle East could wreak havoc on the oil market. However, increased demand for military hardware could at the same time strengthen the steel industry.
 While diversification is a good thing, too much diversification will blunt the purpose behind having a diversified portfolio in the first place. You'll get more out of your investments if you invest sizable chunks in each industry.Keep your investments relatively even so diversification will work for you. For example, if you invest 20 percent of your total investment dollars in Chevron Oil, invest another 20 percent in a different industry that counterbalances the oil industry.
Balance with fast and slow growth as well. For example, if you invest 30 percent of your fund in tech stocks such as Microsoft and Apple, invest 30 percent in a slow-growth sector such as electrical utilities.
You would then have room to put another 30 percent in recession-proof stocks such as health or grocery companies, with 10 percent left to play around with.

