 For this style of kitchen island, you will need a desk or table which has two flat sides which act as the “legs”, similar to Ikea’s Malm desk. You can purchase a table like this from furniture stores or you can make one from two rectangles of sturdy wood, or thick plywood. They should be at least 2” thick.


The first rectangle will serve as the countertop and should be cut to the desired size. The second rectangle will be cut in half and used to form the legs of the table, shortened if they make the counter higher than desired.Join these together by cutting a 45° angle at the edge of both sides of the top and at one end of each of the two legs. You will then need to press these angles together, lining the inside of the joint with wood glue and screwing from the top of the legs into the center of the countertop at at least four points.
Once completed, you can paint or laminate the main section of the island as desired.
 Next, you will attach cabinets or organizers to the underside of the table in order to create interesting and usable space in your design. These will be chosen partially by the space (as the width of the island will determine the depth of any cabinets) and partially by your organizational needs.


You will need to be sure that they equal the length and width of the underside of the island. They also should be no taller than the underside.
Use a pair of upper cabinets with organizational shelves sandwiched between them to maximize usability with your island. It will be best if the cabinets are double-sided, so that some items can be accessed regardless of where you are in your kitchen.
 Attach these by screwing from the inside of the cabinets or shelves into whatever part of the main island they are touching, as well as each other if there is any wood thick enough.


Be sure to use only screws which go no further than halfway through the wood panel, as any further may split, warp, or puncture the outer surface.
 You can paint the under-counter storage if you want, either the same color as the main island or a contrasting color. You can also add different countertops if you wish, by tiling the wood, adding butcher’s block or a granite slab.

