 This is necessary if the pain is extremely severe, you have major loss of function after 72 hours, or the pain has continued after self-treatment for a week. Tests may include palpitation, x-rays and range-of-motion tests. Your doctor may do the following:


Your doctor might prescribe additional medication, including steroids and muscle relaxers like Robaxin and Soma.Prescribe a neck brace if there is severe pain and muscle weakness. This can be provided by a medical supply company in the area.Prescribe an imaging study after a few weeks or months, or if you show signs of neurologic compromise (numbness, tingling, weakness, clumsiness), to verify and better understand the injury. Possible imagining techniques include MRI, Myelogram, CT, or EMG., Physical therapy includes stretches and straightening exercises, which strengthen the muscles that support the neck. It also is likely to include traction, which gently relieves the stress on the neck for short periods of time.Building strong abdominal muscles and lean body mass will also be important for preventing future re-injury., Occupational therapy may be necessary if the way you work or your daily routine has caused or aggravated the disc herniation. These therapists may be able to improve the way you walk, sit or stand to help reduce pain. Special care should be exercised when performing heavy lifting., Chiropractic care may also be necessary in order to restore mobility in the neck and to open up the joint in order for the disc to return to its normal position. You do not need a doctor's referral in order to go to a chiropractor., Consider surgery only if conservative treatments were attempted and failed to produce results after a period of at least six weeks or if you have a large herniation with neurologic compromise. Your general practitioner will refer you to a specialist for advice about these procedures. Procedures include an anterior cervical discectomy or artificial disc replacement.Procedures typically require the disc to be removed.