 You may be uncomfortable sharing information about your partner's or your own mental health. Not everyone needs to know. Think about how a person will respond to the information before you disclose. You may not want to tell an employer who has not been supportive in the past. Only share when you feel safe and supported.


Start with the people you believe will be the most supportive. This will boost your confidence and create a buffer if you have to disclose to those less supportive later. Talk to your partner and make decisions about who should be told before you disclose to anyone other than a doctor or clinician.
If your partner is suffering from depression, it's very important you not disclose without his or her consent. Disclosing without consent may contribute to feelings of helplessness and worthlessness.
 A lot of people don't understand depression, so you may need to educate them. You can find resources online or ask your doctor for brochures to help you explain what you are experiencing. Family and friends will probably want a description of your symptoms to better understand what you or your partner is experiencing. They may also have questions about what might have caused the depression and how it can be treated.You might try writing out answers to these common questions, so you feel prepared when you disclose to others.


Friends and family will probably also ask what they can do to help, so take this opportunity to ask for emotional support.
 If you are struggling to talk to friends and family about depression, ask a professional for advice. Doctors and clinicians have to talk to people about diagnoses all of the time, so they have lots of insight. Because your doctor is familiar with your specific case s/he may have really great suggestions. You might even consider inviting a friend or family member to your appointment so s/he can ask questions in an environment that feels safe for you.


If your partner is suffering depression and isn't talking about it, consider asking your doctor or clinician to speak with him or her. Knowing you trust the person may help him or her to open up.

