 If you find that distracting yourself from your fears is not effective, you may want to consider finding the root cause of your fears. To do this, start by acknowledging your fear-based emotions. Whenever you have a moment of fear, take a deep breath and acknowledge your fear. Say to yourself, “I am feeling fear right now and that is okay.” Try to get in the habit of acknowledging your fear, rather than try to avoid it or distract yourself from it.Rather than respond emotionally to the fear, simply acknowledge that it is there and be more aware of it. View it logically as a feeling you are experiencing and try not to run away from it or avoid it.
 Once you acknowledge your fears, you can then start to process them. Ask yourself, “Why am I feeling fear right now?” Consider the situation you are in, the people around you, if any, and any other external factors. Think about your day and whether certain moments or situations in your day may have contributed to your feelings of fear. Work on processing your fears so you can gain control over them.You may need to take a few deep breaths and sit somewhere quiet to really process your fears. Take your time and meditate on how you are feeling as well as the possible root causes of your fears.
 If you have a specific fear, such as a fear of heights or a fear of crowded places, then you can work with a mental health professional to treat your fear using cognitive behavioral therapy and other techniques. If you are struggling to acknowledge and process your fears on your own, consider talking to a therapist or counselor about your fears. Get a recommendation from your primary care doctor for a therapist in your area. Go to a local mental health clinic to talk to a therapist. Reach out to a school counselor if you are student and need professional support.


You can also call a mental health hotline like the SAMSHA Treatment Referral Hotline in the U.S, 1-877-726-4727. Through the hotline, you can get a referral to a mental health professional in your area so you can find a therapist or counselor to talk to.