 MAC Pro only processes applications online, so it’s important for you to visit the website to gain membership. The application process is simple and very quick. After arriving at the website, you need to:


Choose your resident country.
Click "NEW MEMBERSHIP.";
, You’ll have to enter your individual identification information so MAC Pro can verify your identify and be able to contact you. Contact information is especially important, as you’ll need to review any documents MAC Pro sends you. Make sure to supply your:


Name
Address
Contact information
Profession, Once you’ve submitted your identifying information, you’ll need to upload some sort of professional identification. This identification is required so that MAC Pro can verify your profession, career, and affiliation. There are a variety of identification cards that are acceptable, including your:


Union card
Professional license
Publication masthead
Agency composite card
Editorial page with name credit
Press material or similar material, After submitting your professional identification, you’ll need to pay your annual dues to MAC Pro. By paying dues, you receive access to a wide variety of benefits and gain affiliation with MAC Pro. Remember that:


A one year membership is $35.
A two-year membership is $65.
MAC Pro accepts American Express, MasterCard, and Visa.
You will be charged after submitting your application. However, if your application is declined, you will receive a refund.
If you have a promotional code, you can apply here: https://www.MACproapplication.com/index.html#/complimentary-application, Once you’ve submitted your application, you’ll have to wait for an email confirmation stating that your application has been approved or denied. The time it takes to respond to your application may depend on the season, the current number of applications, and other factors.


Approval or denial may take from a week to almost two months., If you’ve waited an extended amount of time and have still not heard about a decision on your application, you’ll need to contact the company. When you contact the company, have all your membership information available. To contact MAC Pro membership customer service:


Call 1-877-553-5536
Send an email at https://www.MACcosmetics.com/MACpro/customer_service/contact_us.tmpl


, If you think you’ve been wrongly declined, you can appeal the decision. Remember, like everyone else, the people at MAC Pro are not perfect and may occasionally decline people who should be accepted. In addition, you may have made an error on your application. When appealing:


Start by sending an email to MAC Pro. Start your email by stating that you feel you’ve been mistakenly declined. State something like: “To MAC Pro Customer service, I believe I have been mistakenly declined. I am a beauty professional in the greater Atlanta metropolitan area and I serve a wide range of clients to which I recommend MAC Pro Products. Could you please contact me.”
If you do not hear back about your email, call the customer service number.
Be polite at all times., Only certain people are eligible for MAC Pro membership, such as people in the beauty and entertainment industry. There are three groups of professions that MAC Pro will grant membership. They include:


Beauty specialists like: Makeup artists, aestheticians, cosmetologists, hairstylists, fashion stylists, manicurists, and costume designers.
Performers like: models, actors, or those in similar professions.
Photographers or those in related professions., The MAC Pro membership program has a variety of benefits that those in the beauty industry may find beneficial. However, the value of the program will really depend on your personal preferences and whether you use MAC Cosmetics.


The main benefit is a 30% to 40% discount. You can receive these discounts at MAC stores for MAC permanent products. You will not receive discounts at MAC counters at major retailers.
You will also gain the ability to attend MAC’s professional artistry classes. At these classes, you’ll be able to learn from and talk to professional makeup artists.
For a full list of benefits, visit: https://www.MACcosmetics.com/MACpro/membership/benefits.tmpl


, MAC Cosmetics is a global cosmetics company that produces a wide range of products. MAC Cosmetics are sold in major retailers and in standalone stores around the world.


The company is a subsidiary of Estee Lauder Companies
MAC has a permanent line of beauty products as well as seasonal and temporary lines.
MAC products are known for being relatively affordable.

