 After completing “The Fallen” quest, the dragon named Odahviing, Alduin’s right hand, should now be trapped inside Dragonsreach in Whiterun. In order to free the dragon, simply talk to the guard located on the second level where Odahviing is held captive, and he will pull the chain, freeing the dragon.


Note that this step will also start the quest called the “World Eater’s Eyrie.”;
, Once freed, Odahviing will offer to carry you to Sovngarde. Accept his offer and you’ll be able to climb up to his back. He will then take the air and fly out of Dragonsreach.
 Odahviing will land somewhere southeast of the Skyrim map around Jerall Mountains. He will then tell you that you’ve reached Skuldafn (Alduin’s fortress) and that he can no longer take you beyond this point. After climbing off Odahviing, start walking through the large stone arches into Skuldafn Temple.
 Once inside the temple, you’ll find yourself in a room with two lock doors on both the left and right sides, and three pillars with three animal sculptures on each sides—namely, a snake, a bird, and a whale.


To solve this puzzle, simply turn the middle pillar so that its snake side is facing the door on the left of the room. Turn the other two pillars so that the side with birds are facing the same left direction too. Pull the lever on the middle of the room afterwards, and the door to the left should unlock, leading to the rest of the temple.
 After solving the first riddle, you’ll find yourself again inside another puzzle room. This time, there’s a wooden ramp on the other side that you can bring down by turning the three pillars (one in front of the door and two on the upper level on each side) inside the room.


To solve this puzzle, simply turn the pillar in front of the door so that its side with a snake is facing outside. Turn the second pillar on the second level to the right into bird, and turn the third pillar on the second level into whale. Pull the lever you see on the middle of the room, and the wooden ramp should come down, letting you pass.
You can also simply opt to jump the gap on to the other side of the room to skip solving this puzzle.
 At the end of the Skuldafn temple, you’ll find a dragon priest named Nahkriin guarding an altar. Attack the priest with whatever weapon or spell your character has and kill him. After killing Nahkriin, loot his body to obtain the Dragon Priest Staff.


The best way to kill Nahkriin is by using the pillar in the area as your cover. Equipped with your bow and arrow, simply fire arrows at Nahkriin and hide behind the pillar after every shot. The priest will only attack your character if it’s out of its cover. Keep firing shots and hiding alternately until Nahkriin is killed.
 Open your item inventory and equip the Dragon Priest Staff. Approach the altar and use the staff while standing here to activate the portal that leads to the afterlife world. Once the portal is open, jump through it and you’ll find yourself on the soil of Sovngarde.

