 Alaska is beautiful, and nature is surrounding you. Enjoy the beauty.;
, There are several places to play frisbee golf. It's more fun with several friends, or fellow frolf players.
 If you can spare a couple of weeks, turn off your phone and pack up your stuff. Go explore the wilderness. Camp out somewhere, and convince yourself aluminum is bad. Try bringing along instruments to play in the dead of night. Stop brushing your hair. Alaska is the perfect place to experiment with this.
 Convince yourself aluminum is bad. Skip excessive hygiene, start wearing your jeans cut at the knee and recycle or resew the remaining denim.
 Everyone in Alaska loves anyone up here beating a conga. Is it Alaskan? No. Does it remind of us a remote tropical island? Yes, and that is sort of refreshing.
 Alaska has superior furriers. Save it for a special occasion, or wear it in the middle of summer with a pair of shorts.
 Plug in your iPod, and just wander around the state thinking, fantasizing and planning. Just don't stray to far.
 Snow usually peaks in December/January.
 Girdwood is fantastic if you dig Alyeska (google it!) and it's a great place to camp. They host the July 4th Forest Fair. Seward is usually a quiet fishing town nestled at the base of Mount Marathon, but it's one heck of a party place around July Fourth. Also super crowded during that time. Fairbanks is just like Anchorage, with a relative amount of different offered leisure. Give it a shot.
 Alaska is an acceptable place to drink "during the day"- because are days start really early and end really late (during summer).
 According to Alaskan law, your plant can't be too large (google that also). You cannot buy, sell, or smoke it, because that goes against National law. Basically, it's a houseplant for decorative purposes only.
 Buy a pair of binoculars, spot for whales, or bird watch. Don't go crazy with the "spying".
 Nothing beats jumping into a lake/ocean or spot of cold Alaskan water. Washing off under a waterfall is completely acceptable.
 Open any windows in your residence, and crank it.
 Go crazy.
 If it's summer, look around for hot dog stands. Learn the best. If it's winter, grill your own wieners indoors, or outside. Who says you can't use your grill in the winter?

, Buy all that tourist-y stuff, snap photos. Nothing feels more satisfying.
 Priceless.
 Nothing beats using a flashing morocco to warn oncoming traffic and pedestrians that you are there!

, Please don't try biking on icy streets.
 It gives you an entirely new outlook. Very inspiring to take a nature hike.

