 Add roughly 1 gallon (4 liters) of warm to hot water to a large bucket.


The water does not need to be steaming hot, but it should be significantly more than merely lukewarm.
 Stir 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of baby shampoo or mild liquid dish detergent into the hot water.








Do not use a scented or dyed dish detergent, since these are more likely to create streaks or cause damage to the laminate.
Baby shampoo is gentle enough to use on laminate floors, but do not use standard adult shampoos.
Mix the soap and water with your hand until the soap dissolves and bubbles begin to form.
Do not use abrasive cleaners, like bleach or other strong cleaning chemicals.
 Soak a terry or sponge mop in the soapy solution. Wring it out thoroughly so that it is only mildly damp.









Soapy water is a good choice when cleaning floors that have been exposed to mud, salt-covered snow boots, or other major forms of contamination.
You could also use a microfiber cloth, but mops are preferable since you will be cleaning the entire floor at one time instead of working on small patches.
Excess water can cause laminate flooring to become distorted. As a result, it is important that you wring out the mop until it is only mildly moist rather than soggy.
 Start from one side of the room and work your way to the other side, covering the entire floor.









You can also start in the center and work your way to the outside perimeter of the room. The only thing you should avoid doing is working your way from the outside into the center of the room, since you will have to cross over your newly cleaned floor to leave the room.
Re-soak and re-wring the mop as necessary to make your way across the entire floor.
 If you used a small amount of water, the flooring should air dry quickly. If it does not show any signs of air drying by the time you reach the other side of the room, dry it by hand using a dry microfiber cloth.









Do not allow puddles of water to sit on the laminate for prolonged periods of time.

