 The digital age makes it much easier for grandparents to form and maintain attachments with grandchildren over long distances. Even if you have one who is a newborn and unable to answer a phone call, you can still keep tabs on their growth and development.


When it comes to developing a bond with very young grandchildren, the answer lies in staying in touch with their parents. Ask your son or daughter to include the ultrasound in an email or text message. If you can’t travel for the live birth, have someone record key parts of it so you’re able to observe from afar.
In addition, talking on the phone or videoconferencing can help you hear cries from infant grandchildren. To note how fast they’re growing, request that your children complete a monthly shot of each young child. Recording first words and steps on video is also another way for you to be kept abreast of growing grandkids.
 If you are just itching to hear their little (or big) voices each week, have your kids carve out a window when the whole family is available to do videoconferencing. There are a range of services out there like Skype or Google Hangouts that allow you to make live video calls. Endless possibilities await with this kind of technology: watch movies together, read books, listen to music, or cook the same recipe for dinner.


To connect in this way, you need a smart phone or a computer with a webcam and speakers. If you have trouble with technology, suggest that your older grandchildren teach you how to set up or use your equipment. Adolescents today are quite tech-savvy!, Keeping in touch doesn’t have to be elaborate. Old-fashioned letters can be just what your grandchildren need to stay in touch, and sending a response can help little ones perfect their handwriting skills. Care packages can be sent with the letters or separately, too. Include special treats, pictures of your life, birthday cards, little gifts, and even home-baked goods., A simple text message to say “I hope you have a good week at school” might lift a teenage grandchild’s spirits. On the other hand, you can ask your children to scan and email copies of report cards and hand-drawn pictures for you to stay updated on how your grandchildren are performing in school or at home.Any shared interest can be discussed through phone calls, text messages, or emails. If you and one grandchild have a shared passion for jokes, send some humor to their inbox. If one grandchild has developed an interest in baking, pass on a secret family recipe for cookies.