 This is the simplest, most direct way to make a girl blush. Almost everyone appreciates a good compliment. If you choose the right words — walking the thin line between sincere and funny — she just might blush. A few tips are below.


Try to make the compliment about her, rather than about her things. As a simple example, you might say "You look great in that dress" instead of "I like your dress."
Explore topics besides her looks. For example, her smarts and artistic abilities are also great things to bring up.
Don't lay it on too thick. One or two compliments per conversation are fine. A constant string of compliments will usually make people feel uncomfortable.;
, Sometimes a single look can say a thousand words. When you catch her eye as you talk, smile at her and keep your gaze for a few seconds longer than you normally would. If she is shy, even the slightest amount of eye contact may turn her cheeks pink. If she smiles back at you, this can be a sign she feels an attraction for you (though you shouldn't go off of this alone).


When something else catches your attention or someone else starts talking, break your eye contact. Don't keep staring at the girl — this can come across as creepy leering.
 Not all girls will blush over something as innocent as eye contact. However, a little good-natured flirting can usually do the trick. Flirting is a skill that is a little too complex to explain in a single step, so see our article on it for detailed instructions.


One basic way to flirt is to give someone a ridiculous compliment with a joking or sarcastic delivery. For example, if the girl flexes to show off her bicep, you might say something like, "Oooh, soo sexy." It should come across like you're teasing her but being a little sincere at the same time.
 This takes a little finesse, but it works great when you get good at it. Your goal here is to embarrass the girl, but only slightly and only about something that's not actually very important. You should always keep your teasing lighthearted. Back off immediately if you sense that she feels offended or deeply embarrassed.


A good rule is to tease her about her skills or decisions instead of her personality or appearance. For example, teasing her about her bad driving skills can be cute. On the other hand, teasing her about a few light wisps of facial hair is a bad idea.
 When you're hanging out in a group of people, try making a joke that only she will get. It can be a reference to something from your past, something funny that happened to you two but not the other people, or something that references a mutual interest. If you pull it off, she'll feel special. Out of all the people, you singled out her for some humor.


Thinking up an inside joke is up to you — only you can search your shared history for something amusing to say.
 Girls (like boys) listen to their peers. If she hears her friends or family talking about what an amazing, desirable person you are, she may start thinking about you in new romantic ways. Your best bet for this to happen is to simply present your best self. Look as good as you can, have confidence in yourself, and make an effort to be friendly to all of her peers.


If you're already dating, impressing her parents with your politeness and achievements can be a major plus. For many girls, the approval of the parents can mean the world. A little old-fashioned chivalry and good manners in front of the parents can make you look like an absolute gentleman. If you really want to look good, consider getting a clean-cut haircut as well.
 If you're dating the girl that you're trying to make blush, you have more options at your disposal because you already share a level of intimacy. Let her know that she's extremely valuable to you. If you're comfortable with the idea and your relationship has reached this point, you can also bring the "L word" into the conversation. For the best effect, your actions should reflect your words. A few ideas for showing your seriousness are below:


Write her a sweet, hand-penned note.
Make her a mix with her favorite songs on it.
Take her to your favorite hiking or camping spot.
Share a picnic somewhere with a gorgeous view.
Treat her to a semi-fancy night out just because.
 On the other hand, if the girl you're trying to make blush isn't your girlfriend, making your romantic intentions known can certainly make her blush. This can be something as simple as breaking the touch barrier (for instance, touching her shoulder as you laugh) or a little flirting. If you want to be drastic, consider asking the girl out. She's certain to be flattered, even if she doesn't feel the same way. If she does, you have an exciting new relationship to explore!


If you're ready to take the plunge, see our guide on asking girls out.
 When it comes to complimenting a girl, you'll want to avoid anything that makes her feel like a sex object (or a "piece of meat") rather than a feeling, thinking human being. Keep you compliments about her beauty, her intelligence, her decisions, and her personality. Avoid the following subjects:


Her sex characteristics (e.g., bust size)
How revealing or non-revealing her clothing is
Her race or ethnicity
Outward identifiers of her religion or social status

, While it's OK to be attracted to someone or be captivated by someone's beauty, getting too fixated on her looks can be a great way to ruin your chances. In extreme cases, this sort of behavior can constitute harassment. Actions and comments that are inappropriately personal or sexual or personal are off-limits. Avoid the following sorts of actions:


Staring or ogling — especially if you're looking below the neck
Asking prying questions about her dating or sex history
Pressing her for a chance to hang out together if she says "no" or offers an excuse for why she can't
Making any sort of comment that insinuates that she should do something sexual with you

, Touching a someone inappropriately against their will is wrong. At best, it is cause for this person to get angry with you. At worst, it can be a crime. If you haven't already established that touching is OK, keep your hands to yourself except for harmless flirtatious gestures like briefly touching her shoulder as you laugh. If she appears uncomfortable or asks you to stop, stop — even if you don't think you're doing anything wrong.
 As noted above, gentle teasing can be a great way to flirt with a girl and get her to blush. However, there's a fine line to be aware of here. Teasing a girl in a way that makes her feel self-conscious or under attack can lead to hurt feelings, anger, and even lasting grudges. Avoid the following sorts of topics as a general rule:


Negative comments about her appearance or weight
Serious criticisms of her personal, political, or religious views
Gossipy comments about her family or the people she spends time with
Mean-spirited imitations of her tics or habits

, A few sincere presents or a fancy night out every once in a while can be great for showing that a girl means a lot to you. However, trying to throw your weight around by spending lots of money on your outings or buying luxurious gifts isn't a good idea. It may make her blush, but if she's intelligent, her blushing is likely to be out of embarrassment for you. Money is entirely separate from your ability to make girls feel special. People with lots of money can be romantic, but this isn't why they're romantic. Trying to woo girls with money is only likely to make you end up broke or in the company of women with poor life priorities.

