 Grocery stores have daily, weekly, or even monthly sales, and you can save lots of money on healthy foods by saving these coupons and redeeming them when you buy products.You can get coupons from a number of places, including:

In-store flyers
Mailers
Online;
, Grocery store mobile applications often offer different deals and coupons from the print versions. For each grocery store that you frequent, consider downloading their app to take advantage of digital coupons and deals.Print coupons are often for convenience and snack foods, but you can find great deals on healthy foods using grocery store apps.
 Before you go grocery shopping, make a list of all the items you plan to buy. Check the coupons that you’ve clipped or downloaded and make a note of which list items are on sale at which grocery stores.Look for on-sale alternatives to your list items as well. For instance, if you have kale on your list but have a coupon for spinach, opt for the spinach to take advantage of the savings.
 Points cards, store memberships, and loyalty programs are a great way to save at the grocery stores. All grocery stores are in competition with each other, so they're going to offer you different incentives to shop with them. These include in-store savings for members, special deals when you redeem points, or other opportunities to save., While online grocery shopping isn't as big a business as in-store shopping, there are still online grocers that sometimes offer great deals that you'd never find in the stores. Plus, when you shop online, you’ve got a running total of your cart right there in front of you, so it’s easier to keep track of how much you're spending.You can either shop for healthy food online through your regular grocery stores, or check out discount grocers like Amazon, Grocery Outlet, and Netgrocer.
 Knowing exactly what you need before you get to the grocery store can help you avoid spending money on things you don’t need. Make a list of all the healthy meals you plan to eat throughout the week. Then, check your cupboards and crispers to see what you already have, and make a grocery list for all the items you still need.When you go to the grocery store, stick to your list and don’t be tempted to purchase things that aren't part of the meal plan.
Use the coupons you’ve collected to help guide your meal-planning. For example, if you have a number of coupons for pasta, add a lasagna to the meal plan for Monday and spaghetti for Thursday.
 Hungry people tend to spend more on groceries because they're more likely to be tempted by foods they don’t need. To help yourself stick to your list, go grocery shopping after a big meal.

If you can't plan your shopping trip for after a meal, at least have a snack before you hit the aisles., Leafy greens are one of the cheapest healthy foods you can buy in the grocery store. Plus, there are tons of different kinds of leafy greens out there, so don’t be afraid to experiment. Things you may want to try include:Kale
Collards
Chard
Beet greens
Dandelion greens
Rapini
Turnip greens

, Many people opt for organic produce because they think it’s healthier than conventionally grown produce. However, the nutritional value of organic and conventional produce is the same, and because organic is more expensive, you can save lots of money by purchasing conventional produce instead.If you're concerned about pesticides, look for spray-free instead of organic, since organic farmers do still use pesticides.
 Bulk foods are often cheaper because they don’t have the same processing and packaging costs as pre-packaged foods. You can try bulk or wholesale stores if your grocery store doesn’t have a bulk section. Healthy foods you can find in bulk include:Rice
Flours
Grains
Cocoa
Spices
Beans and legumes

, Many grocery stores have clearance sections where they sell produce and other goods that are nearing their best before dates. These products are still perfectly healthy, and you can reap great savings by shopping there.

If you find produce or meat that should be eaten right away, take it home and freeze it to extend its life., The less a food has been processed, the cheaper it will be, and this applies to healthy foods as well. For instance, look for:Rolled oats instead of instant oatmeal
Dry bean and legumes instead of canned
Cheese blocks instead of pre-shredded
Whole fruits and veggies instead of precut

, Brand name health food products are often more expensive, because you're paying for the name and the packaging just as much as the product. Generic and store-brand products are just as nutritious, and usually at a reduced price., Frozen produce is just as healthy and nutritious as fresh produce, as long as it doesn’t have any additives. It’s especially cheaper to buy out-of-season fruits and vegetables frozen instead of fresh.

Not only is frozen produce cheaper, but you can also buy in bulk when it’s on sale and store the extras in your freezer for much longer than you could with fresh., Farmers markets aren't always cheaper than the grocery store, but you can often find great deals on fresh, local, and in-season fruits and veggies.Especially if you're willing to buy in bulk, you can save lots at the farmers market.

Don’t be afraid to bargain with the vendors to get a better price.
 It is possible to eat healthy food out at restaurants and fast food joints, but it will never be cheaper than cooking your own meals at home. Avoid eating out whenever possible, take lunches to work and school, and pack food and snacks when you go on trips., Growing your own food is one of the most cost-effective ways of saving money on food.Seeds are exponentially cheaper than fresh fruits and veggies, but they do take a lot of time and effort to grow. There are even lots of plants you can grow in pots in small spaces.

Check with local community gardens to see if there's space if you don’t have room for a garden of your own at home.
 Leftovers are a source of great food waste, and wasted food means wasted money. In fact, the average American family wastes about $1,500 worth of food each year.When you make a big meal and have leftovers, store them in an air-tight container to ensure freshness, and keep them in the refrigerator or freezer until you're ready to eat them up.