 Because the wound is between your vagina and your anus, you will need to take extra care to keep the wound as clean and dry as possible.Always rinse the area with water after urinating and wipe your bottom from front to back after you have a bowel movement. Doing so will help keep the area clean and reduce the potential for infection from bacteria in the stool.
 Start doing Kegel exercises as soon as possible after you give birth as long as your doctor says it is okay. Doing Kegel exercises will help to improve circulation and speed your healing time. It will also help your body to repair some of the tissue damage from giving birth.Kegel exercises strengthen the pelvic floor muscles that support the bladder, uterus, and rectum. In addition to helping your episiotomy wound to heal, these exercise can also help reduce urinary incontinence in women and strengthen contractions during orgasm.To perform Kegel exercises, start with an empty bladder and imagine trying to stop yourself from urinating and passing gas at the same time. You are trying to squeeze and lift the area. Be sure that you are squeezing and lifting without using any other muscles. Do not tighten your stomach muscles, squeeze your legs together, tighten your buttocks, or hold your breath. Only the pelvic floor muscles should be working., Since an episiotomy wound does not get much exposure to air during normal daily activities, it is important to expose your wound to air now and then. Exposing your wound to air for a few hours per day will help to reduce the moisture against the stitches.When you are napping during the day or at night, take off your underwear so that your wound will get some exposure to the air.
 You will need to wear a sanitary pad while your episiotomy wound heals. Wearing a sanitary pad will help to keep the wound dry and also prevent any blood from getting on your underwear. Keeping the area clean and dry will help it to heal faster. Make sure that you change your sanitary pad ever two to four hours even if it looks clean.
 Although your episiotomy wound should heal within 10 days, your internal structures have been stretched and may have minor tears in them. Most doctors recommend waiting six to seven weeks after giving birth before you start having sex again.Ask your doctor before you start resuming sexual activity to make sure that it will be safe for you to do so.
 Infections to your episiotomy wound can slow the healing process and increase your pain. If you get an infection, you will require immediate medical attention to reduce the potential for serious consequences. For the first seven to 10 days after your episiotomy, do a visual inspection of the stitches and wound area every day. Call your doctor if you notice any of the following symptoms:Increasing pain
The wound appears to break open
You have discharge with a bad odor
You have a hard or painful lump in the areaThe skin between your vagina and anus looks redder than usual
The skin between your vagina and anus looks swollen
You see pus coming from the stitches