 In order to play Twister, you will need at least two people (an equal number of men and women tends to work best). Divide your players into teams of two people, preferably with a man and a woman on each team.If you’re playing the game with couples, each couple can be their own team.
If you don’t have an equal number of players, ask one person to serve as the referee and official spinner. If you do have an even number of players, the referee position will rotate amongst the players.
If you prefer not to play with teams, each player can play on their own individual team.;
, Spread your mat across the floor; if you’re playing the game outside, make sure to anchor the mat at each corner so it doesn’t blow away. Players should start at opposite ends of the mat, with each person standing near the word Twister. Each player should begin with one foot on the yellow circle and one foot on the blue circle closest to their side.If you’re playing with three people, set up the players as you would for a two player game, then have the third player face the red-circle side of the mat, with one foot on each of the two middle red circles.
If you’re playing with teams, a member of each team will play in each round and eventually the winners of each round will face off in a final match.
 Every time the referee spins the spinner, they will call out the body part and color the spinner points to. Each player must place that body part on the corresponding circle. A circle must be vacant for a player to be able to use it.If a player currently has a body part on a color and that color is called again, the player must move to a new circle of that same color.
If two players reach for the same circle at the same time, it is up to the referee to decide who got there first.
If all six circles of the same color are already covered, the referee must spin again until a new color can be called out.
 Any player who falls or touches the mat with an elbow or knee will be immediately ejected from the game. Players may choose to eliminate themselves if they feel they cannot hold a position any longer.The player left standing at the end of the game, wins.
If you are playing with teams, don’t forget to have the winners of each heat face off at the end.

