 As you are working with your professors and your school, it may also help to have a classmate in each of your classes that you can call on. Identify someone that you are friends with or comfortable with in class. This way, you'll have someone in each class that empathizes with you and what you are battling.A classmate will be able to assist you in the following ways.


They will be able to provide you with class notes or materials, if you need them.
If you are having difficulty getting up and getting to class, and miss one, your classmate can collect any materials that were handed out for you.
If you were in class, but struggling with focusing, they can lend you their notes or help you study.
 Succeeding academically includes working with your schools resources and planning for success. Part of what you can do to help cope with your depression is to build or create your schedule in a way that accounts for symptoms you experience.If you have the ability to create your schedule of classes with your school, consider the following.


Avoid early morning classes if you struggle with getting up in the morning.
Avoid evening classes if you are usually fatigued at night.
If your school block schedules classes you may not be able to choose your class times. However, you might be able to substitute the class for an online class from another school. Try and make sure the rest of your schedule works with the symptoms you experience. Schedule studying time, social activities, and even sleeping, so that it will be easier for you to be successful.
 Adapting your study habits to your experience with depression can also help you succeed. Start by planning your study time and scheduling sleep time as well.If getting up in the morning is difficult, make sure you avoid studying late into the night or pulling all-nighters. If you find that you are getting tired or studying is causing more stress, schedule study sessions in short bursts.


Start studying far in advance of when you think you need to start. This will help to ensure that you have plenty of time to cover everything and allow room for unforeseen setbacks.
Find a good study spot.If concentration is difficult for you, find a study spot that is quiet with minimal distractions. If you feel better being around others or studying with some background noise, consider studying in common areas or student lounges.
 Symptoms of depression can include sadness, hopelessness, and a lack of motivation.Struggling with these symptoms can cause you to procrastinate or to avoid your studies and schoolwork. Work against those urges to make sure you can keep up with classes and succeed.


Find an accountability partner to study with you and to help get you back on track when you get distracted.
Set earlier deadlines for yourself than when assignments are actually due. This will help you avoid waiting until the last minute to complete assignments.Reward yourself with tasks you want to do, after completing the schoolwork you are less motivated to do.