 To be gracious means to be courteous, polite, and pleasant. Act accordingly. Treat everyone you meet with respect, just as a princess would treat everyone who surrounds her--her subjects included--with the utmost kindness and respect. You must accept everyone for who they are, and excuse their faults when they struggle to be the best they can be.A part of being gracious is to handle annoyances gracefully. If someone is rude to you, or something does not go your way, don’t throw a fit. Instead, act like a princess and try to make the best of the situation. If your plans have gone astray, try to find a way to enjoy the outcome. If someone is being annoying or rude to you, show kindness and patience to them. They may be quieted simply by your grace.
Never raise your voice or act cruelly to those around you--even if they are getting on your last nerve. Princesses stare adversity in the face and conquer it with kindness.;
, Ladies are dignified--they are the crème de la crème of refinement. Ladies sit up straight, walk with grace, and show respect to everyone. In essence, ladies have the best of manners. Acting like a lady means acting like a princess--they are one and the same.


You can take etiquette classes to learn about the different ways to act properly when in the company of others. The classes will teach you how to have good posture, use the right fork for the first course, and generally how to act like a lady.
 Really listen to what others have to say and reflect their interests in your conversation. Pay attention to what people say to you and show them that you empathize with them.


Part of being a princess is making speeches and listening to her subjects. While you may not be a princess, you can still show the same regard for what your friends, family, and acquaintances have to say. Never brush anyone aside or wave what they are saying off as trivial.
 Good princesses know that they have the power to influence others to do good. You do too! Simply having a positive attitude at all times will inspire those around you to make an effort to be positive. Use your positive attitude and confidence to make change happen. Take care of those who need help--the poor, hungry, and sick. Volunteer at soup kitchens and shelters--take care of those who cannot care for themselves.Make yourself a role model--find an issue that you are passionate about and make others aware of it.
 Essentially, be kind to everyone. Everybody is important to a princess and everybody is valued by a princess. Your friends are a treasure for life, so guard them well. They are more important than all the treasures in your jewelry box. And be sincere with everyone. It is easy to see when someone is being insincere. If you act naturally and kindly to everyone, you will simply glow and those around you will love you all the more for it.


You should also be kind to animals. Anyone who treats animals poorly should be considered a villain. Be loving to your furry friends and people will see you for the kind person you are.
 Princesses need to be confident in order to win the love of their subjects and help govern properly (after all, they could be queen someday.) Draw inspiration from these princesses and be confident in your own life. Look in the mirror and tell yourself you're beautiful and smart. You really are.
 Always make sure to have an open mind. Princesses must keep in mind what the people of her sovereignty need, and what will bring them happiness. You should also consider what the people in your life might need, no matter their situation. Has your best friend recently been dumped? Act like a princess and show her kindness and support--bring her ice cream, a great movie, and all the hugs in the world.Part of keeping an open mind is making sure not to judge anyone. We are all different and have different dreams and desires. Maybe your best friend wants to open a pet pedicure salon. Even if you might think it is a strange wish, keep an open mind and support your friend.
 Make sure to dress in clothing that suits you (and that you like) or else people will see that you are uncomfortable with yourself (and may question your confidence.) So dress the way you want to, but keep in mind that none of your clothes should be too revealing, rumpled, or have stains. Keep your clothes well pressed.


Pick a local designer and champion them. Shop ethically. People love princesses (and women) who support local designers.
 Stick with the basics and allow your inner beauty to shine through. Don’t put on gobs of makeup--keep it classy. Pick out a lipstick that you can wear in any situation and have it with you at all times (for reapplication.)


Don’t be afraid to try out fun new colors every once in a while. It is good to show that you have a fun side and can try new things.
 Daily hygiene is really important--always brush your teeth and hair before leaving the house. Shower regularly and invest in a delicious perfume that reflects your personality.


A part of being well groomed is maintaining your nails. Make sure that they are filed nicely and evenly. Paint your nails a light pink or pearly color (these colors are clean and pretty.) Consider getting a French Manicure ( or doing a frenchie yourself) as a french manicure will transform any hands into things of great elegance.
 While you do not have to do your hair up in tresses, ribbons, and ringlets like the princesses of yore, you should have a cute hairstyle that you maintain regularly (which means no split ends.) There are many ways to do classy updos for formal occasions. Try some out and see which works best for you.
 Princesses dedicate a part of their lives to helping those who cannot help themselves--you should do the same. Spend some of your time doing volunteer work. Every princess must have time to help the needy.Some ways to be charitable include making donations to charities, volunteering at shelters and hospitals, helping or hosting benefits, etc. Find a cause you are passionate about and try to better the lives of people around you or that need help.
 Make others want to dress like you and be like you. This could mean setting a fashion trend, or getting people interested in a certain topic (such as a cause, a completely new cookie recipe, etc.) Most importantly, show that you are confident in this trend, and promote it without being pushy.
 Everybody likes a well-hosted dinner party with a kind and gracious host. There is something incredibly classy about being able to pull off a really fabulous dinner. Create a great menu, select the right wines and cocktails, and decorate for the occasion (this means bringing out those silver candlesticks.)


Alternatively, you could host a tea. High tea is a wonderful tradition in the United Kingdom that involves tiny petite fours, scones, really delicious sandwiches, and a whole lot of tea.
 Just because you do not actually live in a palace does not mean that home should not be beautiful. Whether you live in a tiny studio apartment, or in a room at home, make it as beautiful as possible. Paint your walls a bright, cheery color. Decorate your house with a keen eye--pick a theme and fill your house accordingly.


A great way to bring happiness and beauty to a room is by adding a flower display. Buy a nice vase and fill it with beautiful flowers. Make sure to replace them when they begin to fade. If you don’t want to buy flowers all the time, you could invest in some house plants. Just don’t forget to water them!

, Bad posture gives you a bad reputation and at the end of the day your back will hurt a lot . Prevent all that with a straight back girl !