 Relieve the stress from your shoulders and back by keeping your backpack clean and organized. Pack up the night before so that you don’t feel rushed in the morning. Make sure you look over the next day’s lesson before you pack.Clean out any food or gym equipment so that your bag doesn’t smell. Keep food and liquid in separate compartments and containers to make sure they stay fresh and protected.
 Go over what you can still use from the year before and make a list of the essentials. Check with your teachers, older students, or online for tips on specific brands that may be worth their price.

Create your list based on what makes your life easier. Just because something looks good, doesn’t mean that it’s worth the price. For example, a binder with your favourite band on it may be twice the cost of a waterproof binder that has extra compartments for your pens.
 Whether you download an app or use a physical scheduler, learn how to follow a scheduler so that you don’t miss any important deadlines. Staying ahead of projects, presentations, and exams lets you balance your school work with your social activities.Planners and schedulers give a quick snapshot of your schoolwork. Understand how much time you need for projects, papers, and studying so you can keep your grades up. Cramming and last minute work is a surefire way to increase your stress level and lower your GPA.
Read reviews and forums to ensure you download the best scheduling app for your needs.
 School can bring stress and anxiety on a variety of levels. Remember that you’re not alone. Talk to your friends, family, and your teachers about how you’re feeling. Take advantage of any counseling and stress management resources your school offers.


Contact older students who have gone through the same process to ease your mind about the upcoming school year. You can also reach out to other students outside of your social group. Understand that it may take time and effort but establishing a solid support system of peers is an essential way to relieve stress., Understand that you do not have to change your personality or do anything that you don’t want to. Avoid peer pressure by focusing on your studies and being comfortable in your own skin.

