 Before you pick up the phone, take a moment to get together the information you have, so you can convey your tip clearly and concisely. The more organized and straightforward you are, the more likely it is that ICE will be able to obtain usable information from your tip.You may want to write the facts down before you call so you can communicate them in a logical way. Keep in mind that the more details you have, the more likely it will be that ICE will investigate the matter.
If all you have to go on are suspicions or gossip that you heard from someone else, you may not be ready to submit a tip. ICE won't investigate unless there is some real, concrete evidence of criminal activity.
 If you truly want to remain anonymous, use a public telephone or a different number that can't be traced back to you. Otherwise, your identity may be revealed by simple caller ID.You might want to look at getting a virtual phone number online, or using an app that will provide you with a virtual number that isn't connected to your personal number.
Keep in mind that even though the tip line is anonymous, the agency may still be able to collect and gather information such as where you're calling from.
The extent to which you go to protect your anonymity really depends on the reasons you want to remain anonymous, and from whom you want to remain anonymous.
If you simply don't want the people you're reporting to know that you reported them, for example, it probably doesn't matter to you that a law enforcement agency could potentially track your call.
On the other hand, if you're concerned about being implicated in the criminal activity you're reporting, or if you're reporting people who have a close relationship to you (such as extended family members or co-workers), you may want to take additional precautions.
 ICE has a tip line that you can call to report illegal immigrants anonymously. If you're close to a U.S. border, you may want to call the Border Patrol with jurisdiction over your area instead of calling ICE.The ICE tip line is toll free, and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Call 866-DHS-2-ICE to report suspicious criminal activity such as drug smuggling, human trafficking, terrorism, or other violations of immigration law.
If you are outside the U.S., Mexico, or Canada, you can call 802-872-6199.
If you're calling the ICE tip line, it cannot be to submit a tip that duplicates information you've already submitted online.
General illegal activity can be reported anonymously to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by calling 1-800-BE-ALERT.
If you want to report kidnapped or exploited children, call 1-800-843-5678 to submit your report to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. The information you provide will be forwarded to the appropriate law enforcement agencies for further investigation.
 When you call the number, follow the prompts to leave a message with your tip. The lines are monitored by specialists who will forward your report for further investigation.The ICE tip line exists primarily for the benefit of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI). The HSI force investigates international crimes that threaten national security, such as terrorism, cyber crimes, and drug trafficking.
While you can report illegal aliens using the ICE tip line, you may be able to find a better place to submit that tip unless you have reason to believe the individuals you're reporting are engaging in criminal activity.
Remember to provide as many concrete, factual details as you have so law enforcement officials have something to go on.

