 If you are buying your glasses for a specific sport, such as cycling, this should be easy for you; however, if you plan to use these glasses for a variety of sports then you need to consider what demands and expectations you will place upon this product. Try to think of it in terms of percentages: I will use these glasses 50% for running, 10% for boating, and 40% for leisure.;
, Are you playing a sport where weight matters? If this is the case, then you will need to go with a lighter frame. Do you expect your glasses to fall on the ground at least once? Then you need a frame that can withstand some ‘abuse.’ Do you care about cost? If so, your frame choice may be more limited.The standard plastic frame is a cheaper option. It is a bit heavier and less aerodynamic; however, a well-made plastic frame can last for quite a while. Acetate is a plant-based frame material that mimics traditional plastic. Its layered construction creates a strong frame that is usually rather lightweight.If you are concerned about the environmental impact of your purchase, you may want to go with a castor frame, which is made from castor plants. These frames possess similar qualities to acetate ones with the added benefit of being eco-friendly.
For the ultimate in flexibility, look into a nylon or nylon-hybrid frame. These frames are designed for sport and can bend yet retain their original shape. Traditional nylon frames are also cheaper than a hybrid option.
Metal frames are not usually chosen for sports as they offer less flexibility and can potentially cause injury when broken. If you do decide to go with metal you will most likely need to choose between aluminum, titanium, and stainless steel., This type has a head-hugging design that allows for less light to penetrate inside the frame. It also tends to grip your head tighter resulting in less movement, even when participating in a sports activity.


Some sport sunglasses also have a foam insert that allows you to have extra seal/coverage for sports, offering wind protection too.Wraparound sunglasses generally have a higher ‘base curve’ meaning that they follow the angles of your face closely. Standard non-sport sunglasses generally have a shallower ‘base curve’ as they draw away from your face and let additional light in. Note that if you have a high prescription you are at greater risk of having troubles adapting to glasses with a high base curve., If you are participating in a sport that requires other head gear, such as a helmet, you need to consider how your sunglasses with work with, or against, these other items. Ideally, everything that you wear should function together to provide you with maximum safety, performance, and comfort.


For example, if you are a cyclist, your new sunglasses will need to fit well with your helmet.If you are a motorcyclist, you need sunglasses that fit under your face-shield or act as independent protection with an open-faced helmet.To ensure the proper fit, it is probably a good idea to bring your helmet or other gear with you when trying on your sunglasses. Move your head around to check for motion. Look out from all angles to check for an obstructed view.
Layers upon layers of gear can make things hot. Don’t forget to consider how much ventilation your sunglasses will provide. Some of the most protective pairs can also feel rather smothering in higher temperatures., If you are participating in a watersport, investing in a floating frame might be a very good idea. These frames are made of lightweight material and are designed to stay on the surface of water (usually for quite a while) after falling off., When you think of UV ray protection, special lenses probably come to mind; however, in snow sports, UV rays can reflect off snow and infiltrate the gaps in frames. Specialized frames designed for high-altitude sports minimize this damage by including shields on the side and over the bridge of your nose. The shields can actually improve your ability to look around without facing glare.High altitudes are another consideration for additional awareness of UV exposure as the higher you go, the thinner the atmosphere, and greater the UV exposure.

