 The best way to avoid being embarrassed on the dance floor is to appear confident, even if you are not. Hold your head up and keep your back straight. This will give you a look of confidence. Make sure to always smile and enjoy yourself on the dance floor. This will make you appear confident in your dancing abilities.Avoid looking at the ground and hunching forward. This makes you seem shy and uncomfortable.;
, A drink or two can help to loosen you up and give you enough confidence to hit the dance floor. However, if you get too drunk, you may actually end up embarrassing yourself. When you are drunk your inhibitions are lowered and you are more likely to test out some new flashy dance moves. You will also have less control over your body and could bump into other people or fall on the ground., You may be nervous to dance because you’re worried that other people will judge your dance moves. You don’t need to be music-video ready to hit a dance floor at a bar or other social event. Just try to blend in with the crowd. Most people are too concerned about how they look while dancing to even notice your dancing style., If you are worried about embarrassing yourself while dancing, then you should stick to basic moves. Don’t try and pull off a wild move that you saw on your favourite dance competition show. Leave that to the professionals and stick to moves you know will look good. For example, avoid breakdancing, krumping, or any style of dance that may draw attention.Similarly, avoid flashy moves like the moonwalk. You probably won’t be able to pull it off with as much swagger as Michael Jackson.
 You are more likely to feel comfortable dancing if you are surrounded by your friends. This way you won’t feel like all eyes are on you. Similarly, if you dance with a partner, you can think about them rather than focus on whether or not people are judging you.If you are dancing in a group, make sure to respect the space of those around you. Avoid flailing your arms or stepping on other people’s toes.

