 Instead of registering for home goods, register for your honeymoon. Wedding guests can donate to your honeymoon online, giving amounts for specific activities such as contributing to your flight or buying you dinner for the evening.You can register online with sites like Wanderableand Honeyfund.Include a link to your registry in your invitations and save-the-date cards, as well as on your wedding webpage.
 While it’s advisable to avoid monsoon and hurricane seasons, many places simply have a high and a low season based on tourist traffic patterns. Look into the low season for your destination and book then to save on flights and hotels.Many Caribbean islands, for example, have a high season from December through April due to cold North Americans wanting to escape the winter. Book in the late spring or early fall for better prices.
Europe, on the other hand, generally experiences the greatest number of tourists in the summer and immediately around Christmas. Book a winter or early spring trip for major savings.
 The sooner you start planning, the better prepared you will be when it comes time to book. Start planning one to two years in advance, if possible, to track flight and hotel prices and find the best time to book.Do not wait to book until the last minute. The closer to departure you get, the more the price of flights, trains, hotels, and activities will go up.
 Look at budget airlines, trains, and busses to get the most affordable ticket to your destination. If you have to fly, look at airports further out from your destination. These often are home to budget carriers which offer cheaper service.You may also want to consider driving to your destination. This could offer an affordable alternative to flying or taking a train, and give you and your partner a chance to take a roadtrip together.
 Meals are often a large and overlooked expense during a honeymoon. Plan where you are going to eat in advance so that you can set a reasonable budget for going out.


Treat yourself to one or two truly nice meals, such as a sunset dinner or gourmet breakfast, and opt to dine at more casual restaurants such as cafes and diners the rest of the time.
You can also cook for yourself if you have an apartment rental, or prepare no-cooking needed meals like salads and sandwiches from your hotel. Pack a romantic picnic for the beach to save money and still make a memory.
 Save money on your honeymoon by saving money for your honeymoon. Instead of taking it immediately after your wedding, which likely had its own heavy costs associated with it, plan to take your honeymoon at a later time, such as your one year anniversary.Create a savings plan such as putting ten percent of each paycheck or $100 a month toward your honeymoon during that period of time.
Review destinations and costs and start planning in advance during this period to get the best deals.

