 There are many underlying causes for low blood pressure. Treatments vary and are determined by the underlying condition. Your doctor will perform a physical exam. They will also need a complete medical history and a detailed description of your symptoms.A full blood count should be done by the doctor. This should include cholesterol, B12, and hemoglobin.
Try and have a few blood pressure readings to show your doctor. Take your blood pressure yourself or at any pharmacy. Take your blood pressure while sitting, lying down, and standing to see if there are differences depending on your position.;
, You should tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take. Many medications cause low blood pressure, and combinations of certain medicines can also cause low blood pressure. Ask your doctor if they think your medication is causing the low blood pressure. The doctor may decide to change your medication or adjust your dosage., Depending on the reason for the low blood pressure, your doctor may be able to prescribe medication that can raise your blood pressure. Fludrocortisone, midodrine, and erythropoietin are commonly prescribed for hypotension.This is usually prescribed to treat orthostatic hypotension, which is a condition where you get low blood pressure from standing up after sitting or lying down. This is a treatable condition but requires the documentation of repeated blood pressure readings to confirm.
 Low blood pressure is often caused by underlying conditions. If your doctor has diagnosed a cause for the low blood pressure, they need to treat the underlying condition. Sometimes, treating the underlying conditions can treat the blood pressure problems.Underlying conditions include heart conditions, anemia, diabetes, very low cholesterol, and obesity, neurological conditions like Parkinson’s, and thyroid disorders.People who diet too heavily, those who have removed all starches from their diet, and those who suffer from anorexia nervosa are prone to hypotension.
Hypotension can also be a subtle sign of some bleeding. This could include heavy periods, stomach cancers, bleeding peptic ulcers, and more.

