 Foods that cause inflammation can increase your risk for heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. They can also cause indigestion, bloating, stress and depression, all of which can trigger angina pain. These foods are also high in saturated fats, which can cause blood clotting, constricted blood vessels and plaque formation in the heart’s arteries, increasing the risk of heart attack in people with angina. Try to avoid these foods as much as possible:


Refined carbohydrates such as white bread, pastries and donuts
Fried foods
Sugar-sweetened beverages such as soda or energy drinks
Red meat such as veal, ham or steak and processed meats such as hot dogs
Margarine, shortening and lard

, Certain fruits can be effective in stopping angina pain. Because they are rich in antioxidants, they aid in purifying and thinning the blood, eliminating toxins and improving blood circulation. They are also a rich source of essential minerals, vitamins and nutrients. They may help to improve your immunity and the elasticity of your blood vessels. Fruits that promote heart health, and thereby reduce angina pain, include:


Grapes
Pineapples
Strawberries, blueberries and cherries
Oranges
Pomegranates
Apples

, Vegetables that are rich sources of minerals, vitamins and nutrients may aid in managing cholesterol, reducing inflammation and regulating blood flow to reduce risk of angina pain and other heart diseases. Some vegetables to include in your diet include:


Leafy vegetables such as spinach, kale, collard greens, lettuce and cabbage
Broccoli
Green beans
Sprouts
Carrots
Tomatoes

, Eggs, fish and lean poultry meats contain essential omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. These acids help lower bad cholesterol that can cause obesity and plaque formation in the arteries. They also help reduce stress and improve blood circulation and immune function. These factors will help reduce the risk of heart disease, heart attack and angina pain.,,Foods that are high in omega-3 fatty acids are are:


Eggs
Flaxseed
Fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, mackerel and shrimp
Poultry meats such as quail, turkey and chicken
Nuts such as walnuts, almonds, and Brazil nuts

, Some vegetable oils such as flaxseed, canola, olive, and soybean are rich in omega-3 and omega-6 essential fatty acids, which help reduce cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart disease. Replacing your regular vegetable cooking oil with a healthier alternative can help decrease the risk of angina pain., , You can also use these oils for salad dressings.
 The phenolic constituents in honey such as quercetin, acacetin and galangin may help to treat cardiovascular conditions. Flavonoids in honey may also decrease your risk of other heart conditions. Because of this, honey may improve blood circulation, oxygen supply in the blood, and may enhance the functioning of your organs. It can also reduce the accumulation of fat in your arteries, thereby reducing the possibility of angina pain. Eat a teaspoon of wild honey in the morning every day.
You can also add ½ teaspoon of honey to decaffeinated tea or glass of water and drink the mixture, up to three times per day.
Make sure the honey does not contain added sugars, as these sugars can increase the risk of diabetes when used for a long period.

