 You may think you are getting more done if you try to juggle a few things at once. However, doing too many things at once, you never give a single task your complete focus and attention. You will be more efficient if you devote all of your energy to complete a task before you move on to the next.For example, instead of answering emails and returning phone calls at the same time; answer all of your emails before you make phone calls.Switching back and forth between tasks is more work for your brain and slows down the process.
 You cannot do everything yourself. Allowing another person to take care of something allows you to devote yourself to another task while still getting everything done. Be sure you delegate to someone that is reliable and trustworthy. You do not want to waste time worrying if the person will get things done.Remember that delegating is a sign of strength and intelligence not weakness.
 You will complete a task more quickly if you can give it your full attention. Turn off any distractions such as email notifications, your phone, television, social media. Set aside time when you do not want to be disturbed and do not address any interruptions unless you have to.For example, if you plan to write or read something for 45 minutes, do not answer your phone or respond to any emails during this time. If you turn off the notifications, you will not even notice that people are trying to get in contact with you. Once the 45 minutes are up, you can check your email.
Social media is a big distraction. Schedule social media time throughout the day and stay away from it unless it is during a scheduled time block.
 You cannot work or be productive 24 hours a day. Schedule breaks throughout your day. A break will allow you to recharge and come back to a task with a fresh perspective.During a scheduled break you may:


Get on social media
Call a friend
Take a walk
Try to do something on your break that is completely unrelated to your task.
 At the start of a task that you don't really feel like doing, promise yourself a reward at the end of it. For example, if you have a writing assignment you need to complete but are in no mood to do, allow yourself to use Instagram for half an hour or less once you're done with the assignment.Make sure your reward is something that you really enjoy.
Your reward should never cause a setback or cause you to get off track.
 It is easy to take on more than you can handle or believe that you can accomplish a task in a shorter amount of time. Try to be realistic and schedule only those things which you think you can achieve in an allocated amount of time. Also, try not to take on a lot of extra work.Learn to say “no” if you are already too busy. If you cannot say no, be honest about your time constraints. For example, if someone asks you to get something done by the end of the day, you may say, “I’m a little overloaded right now, but I can have it to you by the end of tomorrow.”
Over-scheduling can also lead to stress. When you are stressed, you become less productive.
 At the end of each day, take a look at your list. If you did not accomplish everything on your list, what could you have done differently? What things did you do well? Adjust your schedule based on your evaluation.


It will take time to find the best strategies for you. Maybe phone reminders work well, but planning during your downtime makes you super stressed.

