 Though you may try to avoid letting your child watch too much television or go on the computer too often, you may loosen up a little on these rules when you are sick. Putting your child in front of the television while you are ill on the couch can keep your child occupied and allow you to relax. You may also allow your child to play games on their iPad, the computer, or on your phone so you can lie down and recover.If you want to still interact with your child while you are ill, you may suggest that you both watch a television show or play a computer game together. That way, you can spend time with your child and get some rest.;
, To keep your child occupied while you are sick, you may suggest a solo activity that is creative and fun. Allow your child to build a fort in their room or suggest that they pick their favorite book and read quietly on their own. You may also let your child play with their toys in their room while you recover from your illness.If you have a little bit of energy despite your illness, you may try setting up a craft area in your child’s room where they can draw or color on their own for as long as they like.
 If you have a baby or a toddler, you may worry about keeping them occupied while you are ill and unable to move around much. One option is to set up a play area that is contained, such as a play pen or a fenced off room. Then, you can put your child down on the ground with toys and watch over them as they play on their own. Setting up an area for them to play can help keep them busy and allow you to rest without interruption.


If you have a very young baby that cannot crawl or walk on their own, you may need to pick up your baby periodically. You may try scheduling in some pick up time and then allow your baby to lay down on their back in the contained play area so you can rest.
 If your child does better playing with others, you may suggest they invite a friend over to play with. Allow your child and their friend to play in the yard or in your child’s room while you rest in your room. Provide toys, games, and books so your child and their friend can hang out together without bothering you.You may also suggest your child invite over a family member so they can spend time with them while you recover.
If your child has a friend who lives in your neighborhood, you may suggest they go over and play with them so you can rest at home alone.

