 Liquids such as soups and smoothies are a great way to lose weight. They can fill you up with healthy fruits and vegetables. One of the best tools for making soups, smoothies, and creamy low-calorie dressings is a hand-held immersion blender. Not only can it make preparation easier, but can also help you get a meal together quickly if you are famished.Look for the following elements when choosing your immersion blender:Easy buttons to push and hold
Easy cleanup
Ergonomic rubber grip
Blending container
Warranty;
, No matter if you’re avoiding carbs or just want a small serving of cheese, a veggie peeler can be one of the biggest weapons in losing weight. Your peeler should have sharp blades and the ability to handle the shape of any food without clogging or losing its edge.Get a peeler with an ergonomic rubber handle. You can get a traditional swivel peeler or a Y-shaped version.
Use the peeler to make zucchini or eggplant “noodles” or even to curl cheese and chocolate for thin 10-calorie servings., Many people who are trying to lose weight worry that healthier foods may lack flavor. However, using a cheese grater or zester can help add a dash of flavor without adding too many calories.Get a grater or zester with extra-fine grade grating. Combine with your measuring spoons for 1 tablespoon of lime, lemon, cheese, or another food to boost the flavor of your meals., You may think measuring spoons are only for adding liquids or spices to recipes. But measuring spoons are also useful for sprinkling a small serving of foods such as nuts, sugar, or other toppings in prepared dishes. They can help you control portion sizes to lose weight.Look for measuring spoons that allow you to “dip and sweep.” You should be able to use a flat blade to sweep across the rim for the most accurate measurement. Avoid spoons with bumps or dips in the handle, which can hinder your ability to get an accurate amount., Like measuring spoons, you can use measuring cups to aid your weight loss. You may like to eyeball amounts when cooking or baking. However, the best way to ensure you’re not getting too many calories is using nested, heavy-gauge stainless steel measuring cups. Beyond cooking, you can also use them as a way to measure out exact servings of food., Forget the muffins. Use your muffin tin to make individual sized servings. Get a 12-cup non-stick muffin pan, which lets you know how big each serving is. Muffin tins are also a great way to prepare meals ahead of time in case you’re in a pinch.Foods you can cook in a muffin tin include:Hash brown cups
Broccoli frittatas
Poached eggs
Cranberry oatmeal bites
Spanakopita
Mini lasagna
Frozen yogurt fruit cups

, Eating vegetables is a great way to promote weight loss. But many preparation methods, such as boiling, can leech vital nutrients out of veggies. Getting a vegetable steamer can promote your weight loss by providing vibrant veggies that are still nutrient packed.Invest in an electronic steamer if you like. You can also purchase a simple and inexpensive basket or metal steamer to set in pots and pans.Use measuring cups to add broth or stock as your steaming liquid., Portion control is a key part of losing weight. Using bigger dishes can make you overindulge. Instead, eat your meals from smaller plates and bowls. A full, small plate tricks your brain into thinking you are getting a larger portion than if you have the same sized serving on a bigger plate.Invest in white plates, which can also trick you into eating less. Some dish sizes that can help you lose weight include:8-inch salad plates
8-12 ounce soup/ salad bowls
Tall, thin drinking glasses
Small serving bowls and spoons
8-10 ounce mugs for hot beverages

, If you’re not using measuring cups to serve a specific portion size, you can also get serving utensils in pre-measured sizes. This can make serving the correct amount of food for weight loss easier.Keep in mind that in addition to serving spoons, you can also get gadgets such as ladles in specific sizes. A ½ cup ladle can help you easily figure out how many calories you’re getting in a serving without going overboard on portion size. For example, 2 ladles of split pea soup, which is 1 cup, has 180 calories in it.
 Some things you make may require weighing your food. Getting a kitchen scale can help you get portion sizes right and cut calories. It can also help you learn to eyeball portion sizes in restaurants.A digital kitchen scale is your best choice for getting the most accurate food weights.Recognize that a digital scale can help you avoid calorie creep. The difference between a 6 ounce and 7½ ounce potato is 30 calories. If you add this and other small amounts up over the course of the day, it could cut 500 or more calories.
 Maintaining a healthy weight is important to your overall wellbeing. Before you make dietary changes or start any fitness programs, talk to your doctor to ensure these are safe for you. Some dietary changes or activities may not be appropriate for you.Let your doctor know you would like to lose weight with dietary changes and exercise. Ask your doctor what foods are best and activities are safe for you.
 Eating healthy foods and watching your diet is the most effective way to help you lose weight. This is especially true if you use your kitchen gadget together with sensible food choices. Meeting a registered dietitian can inform you about diet and nutrition to help you lose weight. A dietitian can also help you make sensible food choices to ensure you get sufficient vitamins and nutrients for your health.Tell the dietician what your goals are. This may include losing weight, making healthy food choices, and preparing nutritious meals.
Ask your doctor or medical professional to recommend a registered dietitian. You can also find dietitians in your local area., Eating healthy foods as a part of a sensible diet is one part in losing weight. Figuring out what nutrients you need and what foods contain them can help you make sensible choices for cooking and at restaurants. Choose foods from the five food groups at each meal and make sure to vary your choices at every meal to optimize nutrient count and your weight loss potential. Make your choices from the five food groups and get the recommended amount of servings per day:Eat 1-1.5 cups of fruit every day. Raspberries, oranges, blueberries, apples or cherries are good choices.Eat 2.5-3 cups of vegetables every day. Mix things up with broccoli, spinach, sweet potatoes, peppers, and tomatoes.Eat 5-8 ounces of grains every day. At least half of your daily grains should be whole. This includes foods such as brown rice, quinoa, or whole wheat pasta and bread.Eat 5-6.5 ounces of protein every day.Opt for lean meats such as pork or chicken, eggs, cooked beans, or nuts.Have 2-3 cups of dairy every day.Foods such as yogurt, cheese, milk, and even ice cream are can help you get your daily dairy., Composing a weekly meal plan can help you make sensible food choices and lose weight. It can also help ensure you get enough nutrients to promote your overall health and wellbeing. loss.For example, make sure healthy breakfast to get each day off to a good start. Pack your lunch as often as possible or choose salads and other light dishes not if you go out. Make sure your evening meal is light and packed with nutrients.


Avoid processed, high fat, and calorie-laden dishes for planned meals and whenever you eat out. This can also help keep you on track.Steer clear calorie bombs such as buffets, breadbaskets, fried foods, or dishes in heavy sauces such as spaghetti carbonara.Make sure your plan includes plenty of salads, steamed vegetables and lean meats. Have whole fruits for dessert or a snack.
 Regular low-impact, moderate intensity cardiovascular exercise can help you lose weight, especially when combined with a sensible diet. Talk to your doctor beginning any physical activity or exercise program.


Do activities that you enjoy. This can make it easier to get exercise. Go walking, swimming, hiking, jogging, rowing, biking, or use an elliptical machine for your activity. Fun activities such as scuba diving, kayaking, or even jumping on a small trampoline are also types of exercise.Do at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity all or most days of the week. Split sessions into three 10 minute blocks if you are not able to move for 30 consecutive minutes.Consider trying full body strength training exercises. Increased muscle mass boosts your metabolism, can help you lose weight.Try lower impact strength training such as yoga or Pilates if you are not able to lift weights.

