 To start writing calligraphy, you need to gather the basic materials. You will need:


A calligraphic writing tool such as a pen or brush
Ink
Paper
A smooth, hard, flat supporting surface
A seat at a comfortable height
You may also want a ruler and pencil (to make lines to write along);
, For calligraphy, you have different pen options. You can use a felt calligraphy pen, a fountain or cartridge pen, or a dip pen. All produce beautiful results with slight variations.


A felt calligraphy pen is similar to a marker. This kind of pen is good for a beginner because it gives you more control with your strokes. Harder tips are more predictable, while soft tips respond to your hand as you get more advanced. These pens can easily be held on a horizontal surface. Choose a fine tip for extremely detailed work and larger tips for bold strokes.A fountain pen has a nib for the tip, but contains a cartridge of ink inside the pen. A fountain or cartridge pen can be used on horizontal surfaces, won't run out of ink mid-word, and doesn't require open bottles of ink. The nib is extremely rigid, so it doesn't respond and isn't flexible. They also leak, can clog, and get messy when you have to change the cartridge. It is good for beginners.A dip pen is the original calligraphy pen, which is related to the early pens made from reeds or feathers. To use a dip pen, you dip the nib into ink. For a dip pen, you need two items: a metal nib and a handle. Dip pens can use India ink, drawing ink, and acrylic, and other inks that destroy fountain pens by clogging. There are different size nibs you can get to make various lines in different widths. You can also change color if you're using different color inks. Using a dip pen is harder, but most serious calligraphers use a dip pen., Because of the kind of ink used in calligraphy, regular paper is not the best choice. Printer or graph paper is thin, so the ink bleeds through. Any type of regular paper can be used while practicing, but if you are completing a finished product, you want to choose better paper.


Look for "sized" paper. Sizing means the paper has been made so that the ink won't absorb into the fibers of the paper. This helps you achieve clean, sharp letters.
Get acid free or pH neutral paper. This paper won't yellow over time.
Buy heavy paper. Heavier paper gives a rigid surface for your calligraphy. Calligraphy pads range from 20-70 lbs. Start with at least 60 lb paper when completing any final projects. That's good for most calligraphy projects.
There are three types of paper surfaces: hot-pressed (smooth), cold-pressed or not hot-pressed (some roughness), and rough (very rough). Smooth surfaces are usually good for calligraphy, though a little roughness can help grab the ink. Start with hot-pressed paper at first. Try cold-pressed once you become more advanced and use a dip pen.You can buy calligraphy pens and paper at most art and hobby stores.
 When writing calligraphy, you want to have straight lines to write on. Use a ruler to draw lines on the paper. The height of your letters will depend on nib widths, if using a dip pen.


For practice, draw parallel lines on a sheet of paper 3/4" apart.If you want to practice upper and lowercase letters, place dashed lines halfway between the parallel lines.
You can also use lined practice paper that elementary students use when learning to write.
 Dip the pointed end of the nib into the open ink bottle. Hold it there until the ink reaches 3/4 up from the tip. Tap the nib on the rim of the ink bottle to shake off any lingering ink.


If there isn't enough ink in the pen, it will run out faster. This will cause scratchy lines. You will also have to stop to refill. If there is too much ink, it can overflow, which will cause the ink to drip or spurt.Hold the pen horizontal after you put in it. Keep it over the paper to avoid getting any ink in your lap.
Test the ink flow of the pen on a scratch sheet before beginning., Grip the pen in whichever hand is your writing hand. Don't grip the pen too tightly. That might cause shaky letters. Make sure you are sitting comfortably. If you want, you can write on a slightly angled surface of 30 degrees.Hold the pen like you would a normal pen.


Although you hold the pen like you do a regular pen, you won't write with it the same way. You will vary pressure and use different strokes than when you write normally.To get the best release of ink, hold the pen against the paper horizontally at a 20-45 degree angle.Keep the pen angle constant as you write.
 When you get the pen filled and positioned above the paper, it is time to write with it. The pressure you apply varies depending on the kind of stroke you make. To make a downward stroke (from top to bottom), press hard. When you make an upstroke (from bottom to top), use a light pressure so that the pen is barely touching the paper. If you press too hard on the upstroke, you will get ink splatter.


Make sure the tip of the pen is always in the same position and facing the same way. No matter if you are going up, down, or sideways, it should remain in the same place. Don't turn the tip of your pen; instead, move and turn your hand.
Lead the nib with your hand. Don't push it.Wipe off the nib every couple of minutes. Dip it in a cup of water and then wipe with a paper towel., Just like normal writing, calligraphy has both uppercase and lowercase letters. Where these letters fall on the page is very precise. There are three areas you need to know when thinking about writing with calligraphy.


The baseline is the bottom parallel line. All the letters sit on this line. Always return to this line.
The ascending line is the top parallel line is where all tall letters reach.
The waistline is halfway between the baseline and the ascending line. On a practice sheet, it may be invisible or dashed lines. This is where the lowercase letters reach.
The descending line is the same width from the baseline as the waistline. This is where any letters that reach below the baseline fall., The downward stroke is one of the two main strokes in calligraphy. It is one of the first things you want to practice and perfect. Before you start practicing this stroke, though, use some practice sheets just to draw lines, curves, and loops. Get a feel for the pen and paper while practicing filling up your pen.


Place your pen at the top line. With the tip of the pen flat on the paper, move your hand downward. Don't keep the line straight; instead, the line should slant to the right if you are right-handed. If you are left-handed, let it slant to the left. The stroke should extend from the top line to the bottom line.
There should be a little tail at the bottom when you finish.
Fill the whole page with downward strokes. Work on improving your lines and getting used to the feel of the pen.
 The basic curve is the second of the two main strokes in calligraphy. The basic curve looks like lowercase c.


Start with the tip of the pen in the middle of the two parallel lines. If you made dashed lines between the parallel lines, start at that line.
Curve your pen down and left. Pull up when you reach the bottom line.Practice by filling a whole page with the basic curve.
 Draw lines parallel instead of downward. Keep the nib at the same angle and in the same position as when you did the downward stroke and curve.


Next, practice making diagonal lines. Make sure to keep your pen in the same position no matter which direction you go. Make a diagonal from right to left. This will produce a very thin line. Then, make a diagonal from left to right. This will make a wider, bold stroke., After you get the basics, learn some letters. Letters consist of a bunch of strokes placed together. Practice stroke basics before starting to learn letters.


For the letter h, start with a roundhand script. Place your pen tip on the ascending line. Make a downward stroke all the way to the baseline. Lift your pen and place it on the downward stroke just below the waistline. Make an arc towards the right and then downward.
The letter a in roundhand script will take 3 strokes. Start a little to the right at the waistline. Make a curving downward stroke to the baseline. The bottom should end approximately the same perpendicular line as the top. Make a short left to right stroke at the top of the curve. Then, place your pen right where that left to right stroke ended and make a downward stroke towards the baseline. There should be a little flourish towards the end.To write a different a, start with a downward stroke from the waistline to the baseline. It should have a rounded flourish at the top and bottom. Then, make a half curve on the left side of the downward stroke. It should start halfway between the waistline and baseline and curve towards the right, ending at the downward stroke. Then, make a left to right stroke from the top of the half curve to the downward stroke. This completes the a.