 Sometimes the image you have doesn't lend itself well to color changes. This commonly occurs with very dark hair, which may be so close to black it is impossible to lighten it or get new colors. A good way to fight this is to use multiple transparency layers, allowing you to get multiple effects on the same head of hair. Create a new transparency layer underneath the first one by right-clicking on the first transparency layer. Then try the following effects before moving on to your standard color-changing layer.


Adjust Hue and Saturation for wild color schemes. Click on Hue and Saturation and adjust the Hue to turn one color into another one, like vibrant red, purple, green, etc. Saturation will adjust how vibrant the color is -- too low and the hair will get gray, two high and it will be nearly-neon. Change the hair to yellow to make it easier to adjust.
Use Brightness and Contrast to lighten dark hair before changing the color. Brightness affects the light, contrast affects the difference between whites and blacks.
 Mix and match the two colors to get good final tones-- a bright, low contrast yellow hue on black hair can be easily transformed into blond hair with the second layer. The more you can lighten the dark hair before moving on, the better.


A yellow hue, combined with raised brightness and contrast, should give you enough room to start messing with the actual color.
 This may be the easiest way to get dark hair lighter. Use the normal techniques to get the hair a little bit darker. Once you're happy with the first layer, simply copy and paste the transparency layer once or twice. If you're using "Overlay" mode, the lighter copies will "stack" on each other, making the final effect much more pronounced., The benefit of transparency is that it retains the light values of the original photo, making sure the shadows and highlights all stay the same and match the rest of the photos. When making precise edits with the eraser or brush, remember to leave the natural dark and lights spots on the hair identical. Save your tweaks to the strands on the side and the difficult, uneven lines. Don't try and darken up a shiny spot to make the hair look darker or lighten up the shadows to make the photo blonder.


You may be tempted to invert the colors of dark hair blond (making black white and visa versa), but this will completely flip the lighting of the shot and make the hair look unnatural.
Any change you make to the total lightness or darkness of the hair should be done to the whole head, not just certain sections.

