 You don't want to do work and not get paid. But if you don't require tuition from your students up-front, that may be what happens. Choose billing options that best suit your financial needs.The easiest option is to have students commit to a month at a time, and pay for that month up front. This method not only makes accounting easier for you, but also ensures a level of commitment from your students.
Paying in advance for a month's worth of lessons also makes it easy for you to schedule and allot your time, which is immensely important if you are working a day job and teaching guitar on the side.
 The more you improve as a musician and a teacher, the more students you will attract. Becoming a better guitarist yourself also means you can keep students for a longer period of time.For example, if you are an intermediate guitar player, you may have no problem teaching beginners. But once your students become as good a player as you are, you have to let them go because you have nothing more to teach them. While you can probably find other beginners, you're limiting yourself if you don't continually improve your own skills.
With time and experience, you will learn new teaching methods or new tricks that help a particular thing to "click" with your students. Expand your repertoire by talking to other guitar teachers on a regular basis and getting ideas from them.
You might consider joining a band or doing open-mic performances on your own to gain exposure. Someone listening to you play may be interested in learning from you.
 When you start teaching guitar, you are also starting a small business. Regardless of whether you just want to teach guitar on the side, or eventually want to grow your business and quit your day job, good record keeping is essential.You may want to subscribe to a bookkeeping app or service so you can quickly and accurately record your income and business-related expenses.
Keep in mind that you will have to include your income on your taxes, but you also can deduct expenses related to your guitar teaching business. For example, if you're teaching students in their own home, you can deduct the mileage to and from those lessons. You also can deduct the cost of materials, such as guitar strings or paper used to print handouts for students.
You may want to set up a meeting with a small business advisor or an accountant so you can get a handle on the records you need to be keeping and how long you need to keep them.
 Particularly if you intend to teach guitar full-time, you'll want to organize your business into a defined structure to separate it from your personal finances. Creating an LLC is perhaps the simplest way to do this.Setting up an LLC means that if one of your students has a legal dispute with you, or if you have a dispute with another business, your personal assets will be protected and they won't be able to go after those.
Consult a local attorney to find out what the requirements are for setting up an LLC where you live. Typically you can do everything yourself without having to hire an attorney to do it for you.
There also may be other permits or licenses that you need to conduct your business legally in your area.
If you live in the United States, you'll need to register your business name and the business itself with your state's Secretary of State.

