 For example, if your character is British, your readers will expect a stereotypically English name, so a non-English name like "Cho-Lin" would only work with a convincing backstory (see also, for example, the Desi family from Coronation Street). Remember that most readers will hear a name and instantly visualise a character based on that name, especially if that name hails from a particular culture.


By a similar logic, bear in mind that some names are considered old-fashioned or New-Agey by today's readers. Does the name fit the time period your story is set in?;
, If the character is quite strong-willed and stubborn, strong sounds like "k" and "p" will pick up well here. On the other hand, if your character is pretty and a bit shy, soft sounds like "f" and "s" work much better.
 Search through baby name websites, looking for names that have a meaning that will go well with your character. You can go with physical appearance ("Bianca" for a blonde, "Bella" for someone pretty") or personality ("Lewis" means warrior and "Leo" means lion).
 Remember that certain names, such as "Adolf" or "Elvis", have certain overtones, and a character with a well-known name is unlikely to develop in their own way as you want them to. However, this can be made into a plot device or a running joke, if you want. Just be aware that people may well prejudge your character for this reason, and it is recommended that you use this technique sparingly, if at all.
 If so, you need to determine three things to your audience: (a) who calls the character by the nickname, (b) why they have developed this nickname (some, like Becky/Rebecca, need no explaining, others may need more) and (c) does the character like/accept this nickname? Is it a hated handle?

, Read out each name to them in turn and ask what sort of person might have that name. If they come up with something completely different to your character, it probably won't fit.
 It might be someone you love, someone who has influenced you or supported you, or the person that this character is based on.


Be careful though — if you're naming your character after someone, check with them before it ever gets made public. They may not be happy with being associated with that character, especially if the character is portrayed unfavourably, and you may end up with a difficult court case. If they say they would rather not, accept this and change the name.
This is different from using your own family members — your family, your business (although you should still use common courtesy, especially if these people are still alive). Garfield the cat, for example, was named for Jim Davis' grandfather.
 You may think that Xzighlab is the perfect name for your character, but if the reader has to struggle through this name several times a page they will be put off.
 Examples include Rachel/Robert, Mary/Martin, Sophie/Sam etc. Even if they don't start with the same letter, but sound similar, there can be confusion, e.g. Jacob/George.

