 If you want to keep your cat from digging in a potted plant or chewing on its leaves, you will need to move it out of reach. While this can be difficult to do with cats, it is possible. One of the best ways to place a plant out of reach is to hang it from the ceiling in an area that doesn't allow the cat to get up to it. You can also place plants on window sills or shelves that the cat cannot access.


Plants can be hung from the ceiling relativity easily. You will need to install a hook in the ceiling that can hold the weight of the plant. Then place the plant in a hanging pot which can be hung from the hook.
If you are hoping to place a toxic plant out of reach of your cat, remember that they can still drop leaves when they are hung, which can endanger your cat.
 If your cat is obsessed with a particular plant, you will likely need to move it out of the cat's area to keep it undisturbed and alive. If there is an area of your home that your cat doesn't go in, move the plant there.


If your cat currently has full reign of your home, you may need to make an area off limits to save your plant.
 There are some cats that can be trained to leave plants alone. If you have trained your cat in the past, it's worth a try to keep it out of your houseplants.


Training your cat should not involve physically or verbally punishing the cat. Instead, you should use positive reinforcement for good behavior and correction for behavior that you don't want occurring., When relocating your plants to keep them away from your cat, make sure that they don't actually pose a new threat to it. It is important to place plants so that they can't fall and cause injury, if the cat does find a way to get to them. For instance, a large floor plant could tip over onto the cat, or a plant could fall onto the cat from a tabletop or shelf if it is not placed in a completely isolated location.


It is especially important to think about the physical risk to your cat if it is very interesting in playing with the plants.

