 You can use many materials:



C&C cage grids. These can be joined either with connectors or zip ties if you want a flexible fence. These are simple to make even for a beginner, and can easily be expanded as desired.
Wood and mesh fences. These types of runs are harder to make, but may look better, depending on the area. Make sure the wood has not been treated with poisonous chemicals, and is a type of wood safe for guinea pigs. Cut the wood to size, nail it together in the desired shape, and attach the mesh. Keep in mind that your piggies may chew on the wood or even urinate on it, so be prepared to take care of it in these situations.
Pre-packaged runs. These are easy to set up and use, but may be expensive. Follow the directions on the package to assemble, and ensure that they're safe for your pigs before use.
Plastic mesh or chicken wire. Make sure that the mesh is small enough that the guinea pig cannot get through or get their head stuck in the mesh. Additionally, ensure that no sharp ends are poking out that could potentially injure your pig. This works best on a lawn, as you can use tent pegs to secure it to the ground.;
, Zip tie your grids together, assemble the wood, or put together the run as instructed on the package.
 Check for places your guinea pig's head could get stuck, possible escape points, sharp edges, and anything else that could cause injury.



If the temperature is between 60 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit, you may wish to set up the run outside. If so, choose a shady area with no poisonous plants nearby.
If you choose to have your guinea pig play inside, choose an open area where you have space to set up the run. Make sure that it is out of direct sunlight, and that your guinea pig won't be able to escape anywhere.
 Simply unfold and place the grids, or place the cage in the area you chose.
 If your guinea pigs enjoy chewing, newspaper alone isn't a good choice as they may eat it. You can lay down newspaper with a layer of fleece, towels, or something similar to absorb any accidents your pigs may have.
 Get creative, and build obstacle courses or mazes if you wish. Try putting in some toilet paper rolls, crumpled newspaper, or similar items for your pigs to poke at and enjoy.
 Water and hay are crucial to your pig's health, so always have a bowl or bottle of water and a pile of hay in the run somewhere your guinea pig can easily access it. Put in a bowl of pellets if the guinea pigs will be there a long time.
 Pipes, hides, and tunnels will provide fun running through, and make guinea pigs feel more secure. Guinea pigs are prey animals, so shelter is a must -- especially when they're exploring a new and exciting area.
 Place it gently in the enclosed area.
 Especially when introduced to a new area, your guinea pig may be frightened and simply run to a shelter to hide. Give it time, and it may decide to come out and explore eventually.


If it doesn't come out to play, don't be discouraged. Try again for the next few days, and soon your guinea pig will realize that there's nothing to be afraid of.
 Feel free to sit down inside the run and let it hop up on your lap. Bribe it with treats, or practice training to enhance the session.

