
Take responsibility for your own well being.
Set goals toward wellness.;
, Take into account the World Health Organization’s twelve determinants of health, which include:


Income and social status
Social support networks
Education and literacy, i.e. health literacy
Employment/working conditions
Social environments
Physical environments
Personal health practices and coping skills
Healthy child development
Biology and genetic endowment
Health services
Gender
Culture

, Tests may include:


Treadmill testing
Strength, posture, and balance testing
Autonomic nervous system testing
Electrocardiogram (ECG), skin temperature, skin conductance, and surface electromyogram (EMG) testing
Neurological impairment testing (sensation, muscle tone/tremors, reflexes, and coordination)
Respiratory impairment testing (via swallowing)
Bedside peak flow meter and pulmonary function testing
Bedside oxygen saturation testing (supine, sitting, standing, exertion)
Overnight oxygen saturation testing (takes two nights)
Any other basic evaluations

, These can include:


Pharmaceutical prescription
Physiotherapy
Education series
Desensitization approaches
Intravenous therapy
Counseling
Psychotherapy

, Employment assessment, monthly work re-entry workshops and monthly work re-entry follow-up support group continue to inform about vocational review, resume preparation, job search and interview skills, work re-entry protocols, transitional employment, work-place follow-up, liaise with insurers, workers compensation board, pension plans, and networking with community agencies—these are just a few of the benefits of rehabilitation.
 Spiritual services recognize that individuals have spiritual as well as emotional and physical needs. Spiritual needs are met through our connection to the world and others, which in turn helps make our individual experiences more meaningful. Such spiritual services might include:



Body Mind Awareness Program, which is based on Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction. This model for stress reduction and health puts mindfulness and awareness practices in an appropriate (and scientific) context for healing.

Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition is a process of identifying, assessing, and recognizing what a person can do. It supports that learning is continuous and connected to virtually all aspects of our lives including formal education, life, and work experience. As a tool for transition, this program can assist participants in making occupational choices.

Home and Workplace Evaluation can help MCS patients determine how their atmosphere affects their condition, and how to improve their setting to improve their MCS.

Expressive Arts engages the patient in art music or body movement. Participants explore images which they use to identify feelings of anger, grief, and loss. This program offers interactive ways to explore issues of long-term illness, which can be very spiritually beneficial.

Mindful Yoga works to unify the body and mind. A combination of gentle stretching exercises and breathing exercises can really make a difference to someone with MCS.
 They often contain fewer chemicals. Here is a list of good products to use:



Household Cleaning and Laundry Products

Shaklee Basic H – (available through a distributor)
Simply Clean – laundry, dishwashing, all purpose.
Baking Soda
Borax



Soaps and Shampoos/Hair Care

Nature Clean (shampoo and conditioner)
Spice of Life – soap (honey & oatmeal, avocado)
Aquatain – unscented body lotion
Lubriderm – unscented body lotion
Marcelle – face cream
Almay – face cream



Deodorants

Marcelle – roll on, available at most pharmacies
Crystal Rock – some pharmacies
Natural Science
Earthwise – chamomile
Baking Soda
Simple
Dove – fragrance free (sensitive skin)
Ladyspeed stick – unscented, invisible



Shaving Products

Use an electric razor preferably
Aveeno – shaving cream


Always sample products before you buy!

, Ask if he/she will allow you take certain measures to help your condition (opening doors, bringing in air purifiers, etc.).
 Suggest alternative products they can use to help you.
 These may come from scented personal care products, detergent, laundry and cleaning products, air fresheners, household cleaners, pesticides, pretty much anywhere.
 You can also try a respiratory mask that covers the nose and mouth—this might relieve some breathing symptoms.
, It will sweat the toxins out of your system.
 If you don't know anyone who specializes in this field, ask for a reference from your family doctor.
 Carrying a grudge because the world won't accommodate your needs is futile. Downplay the irritations as much as possible, even when you're having a bad day. The less you mope about MCS, the less it will negatively affect you!

