 Surviving after a major apocalyptic event is not going to be short term since the entire country or the world is likely to be falling apart––there are no two ways around that reality. However, hopefully having three months of supplies will get you settled and going with your new self-sufficient habits. The more time you have dedicated to forming a plan when disaster 'does strike, the better. When preparing the supplies, think in two categories: basic survival and getting by, as outlined in the following two steps.;
, Consider storing the following:


Jugs of water
Canned goods
Vacuum-sealed goods
Blanket and pillow
Medications
A weapon that you actually know how to use properly
A knife (in addition to a weapon)
Warm, long sleeved clothing (if your climate requires it)
Carrying bag (for moving and/or fleeing).
 Think about having these items at your disposal:


Batteries
Flashlights
Matches
Pot (for cooking or boiling water)
Plastic eating-ware (plate, mug, spoon, fork)
Rope or twine
Map
Permanent markers (something to write with)
Change of clothes
Can opener
Lighters
Camp stove and propane
Hatchet or axe
First aid book
Sunglasses
Duct tape
Glow sticks
Boots
Extra pants
Smartphone
Water filters
Other comfort items.
 Whether you're on the lookout from cannibals, flesh-eating super-bacteria, zombies, or a meteor, you'll need to think about your health. Here's a list for what you need to put in your emergency kit:Adhesive bandages, such as Band-Aids
Gauze
Medical tape
Antibiotics (not for the zombie virus but for normal bacteria)
Antiviral drugs (not for the zombie virus but for normal viruses)
Ibuprofen (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID))
Acetaminophen/paracetamol (over-the-counter pain relief)
Antihistamine
Aspirin (over-the-counter pain relief)
Laxative
Iodine
Potassium Iodine
Hand sanitizing liquid
Candles
A multi-use tool (aka a "hobo tool")
Phone charger (preferably solar)
Wood for burning
Towels
Life jackets, if your area is prone to flooding
Extra warm clothes
Paper towels
Solar charger (see below)
Pet food (enough for 30-90 days)
Tweezers
Plasters
Safety pins
Thermometer
Superglue
Toothpicks/needles.
 You'll be dealing with everything from cuts to dysentery. Hospitals will cease existing and simple problems will seem a lot more daunting. If you or a family member has a specific ailment, stockpile medications for that, too.
 That's a nice way of saying, "Everybody poops." To keep hygiene from being an issue on top of everything else, pack the following:


Toilet paper (a couple rolls will suffice)
Menstrual products
Toothbrush and toothpaste
Plastic garbage bags and ties
Shovel or trowel
Bleach
Soap and shampoo

, Everyone in the household and close family and friends should have a communication system to communicate with family and friends. Communicate secret locations with your family members and friends using the radio.


Keep batteries with your radio. The last thing you want is to presume you're prepared when you're really not. And if you have a loved one you're taking care of, make sure they have a radio and you're not keeping both of them for the two of you.
When all else fails, work out how you will contact each other. This is when your permanent markers will come in handy. If the apocalypse strikes and you have left the house, write down where you are going, when you left, and if/when you'll be back on the wall, on a rock, on a nearby car, wherever you can find.
 Hoarding gasoline won't work; the chemicals that once kept it fresh will degrade it in time. After a year or so, it goes bad. Chances are gas stations will run out of gasoline but there could be some diesel left. In addition, all military diesels can run on other fuels as well, from rotten kerosene to fermented leaves. So invest in something that can handle the harder fuels.


In said vehicle, it's equally as likely that you'll be in it when all breaks loose, so pack a survival kit to keep in your car as well. Is there such a thing as being too prepared?
If this isn't an option, make sure you have a bicycle laying around somewhere that's fully functioning. There will be a point when you need to cover large distances in a short amount of time.
 Knowing how to work a gun is going to keep you from either dying or being voted off the island.. And while you're at it, buy a couple (if you haven't already).Regardless of who or what you'll be facing, this is probably a good idea. Anything menacing needs to be kept far, far away. Whatever or whoever your enemy, shooting them will probably increase your chances of not being attacked or eaten.

Unless the apocalypse is due to some bacteria that's floating around in the air. In that case, get a gas mask. The people/zombies/menacing forces will probably still see you as an enemy.



Master the art of the snare trap. If you're really scrappy with it, you need nothing but what nature provides you.
If you're on the ocean or near a body of water, get to fishing or fly fishing. Your stock of baked beans and Spaghetti O's certainly isn't going to start spawning miraculously.
Take a hint from Katniss and start honing your archery skills. Once you've got a reason, learn how to make your own bow.
 Take the time to read through wikiHow's disaster preparedness section. Read every novel on every version of apocalypse you can. Even though such novels are "fiction", reading about how the characters scavenge for food, retain water, and find shelter might just be the thing to save your life.However, do not rely on these as your only preparation.


Examples of books to read include: The Road by Cormac McCarthy, Lucifer's Hammer by Larry Niven, Alas, Babylon by Pat Frank, Earth Abides by George R. Stewart, Stephen King's The Stand, and The Day of the Triffids by John Wyndham are all great places to start (even if the apocalypse doesn't end up coming anytime soon). You've already read The Hunger Games, right?

, If we're all honest with ourselves, what kind of world could we recreate without others?


For most of us, not much. Can you make a battery from a lemon? Or a potato clock? Lowering the bar... how are you at tying knots?

, Taking car batteries and daisy chaining them will act as an energy storage device, but you're going to need to generate power. A generator running on wood, gas or a diesel engine where you can make your own fuel is good, but the real payoff is using renewable energy by making your own wind turbine out of PVC pipes and a car alternator or scavenging some solar panels near a highway. When the events do take a turn for the worst, at least you'll be able to be productive at night and have some of the luxuries of your former life.


Having electricity in your safe house will keep the lights on and keep electronics running. Electricity is important to run power tools, welders, water/fuel pumps, radio equipment as well as charge any portable item or comfort item you may wish to use. It'll be a surprising source of morale, too.

