 Open a new bank account that is in your name only.  This will be your separate account that your wife cannot access. Find out what your state's (or national) law is regarding marital property and make a deposit accordingly.  


For example, in Arizona, you may take your half of the marital community's cash and deposit that amount into your new bank account.;
, Open up a credit card account in your name only. Use restraint and pay off the charges every month to establish and raise your personal credit score. Consider canceling any credit cards or accounts that are no longer in use, but in both your names.
 To provide a complete family financial picture for your divorce, make copies of all documents going back at least one full year. If you don't know which documents are relevant to your case, copy everything and let your attorney help you decide. If you are unable to find specific files, be sure to retrieve the account numbers so you can access it later. This information includes:


Paystubs and income verifications
1099 and W2s
Bank and credit union accounts
Credit card accounts
Insurances policies (note beneficiary designations)
Pensions and retirement accounts
Investment accounts 
Vehicle certifications of title and any loans
Business operations records.
 Change the passwords to all your financial, email, and social media accounts. Open a new email account for all communications with your attorney. If you ever suspect that your wife has acquired the password to any of these accounts, change them immediately and let your attorney know about the possible security breach.


See the comment below about staying off social media.
 Take an inventory of all personal property by preparing an accurate list and taking photographs. The easiest way to do this is to go building-by-building and room-by-room (make sure to have a date stamp on the photos). Refer to your state's (or national) marital property laws - if you live in a community property state, list each item as community or separate property.


Community property includes all assets that you and your wife accumulated during the marriage.
Separate property includes any property owned by either of you before marriage, or that either of you acquired by gift or inheritance during the marriage.
 Sometimes in divorce, people take their frustrations out by damaging, defacing, or destroying separate property and other things the other holds dear. Take items like early photos of your children and other family keepsakes, make copies and take photos, and store the keepsakes in a safe deposit box that your wife does not have access to.
 Start keeping a parenting journal that details and notes what is happening on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis in regards to your children. If you plan on seeking primary physical custody, stay involved with your children's lives and maximize your parenting time. Regardless of the custody decision, a parenting plan with everyone's schedule can help coordinate visitation, holidays, and activities.
 Learn the names of the people involved in your both your life and your children's lives. Make sure to prepare a list of their phone numbers, addresses, and email information. This includes:


Family members and neighbors
Healthcare providers
Financial planners, accountants, and insurance agents
Teachers and administrators
Employers and professional advisors
Babysitters and day care centers
The parents of your children's friends,school, and teammates.
 Even though you have already changed the passwords to your accounts, your social media presence - especially Facebook - will be highly scrutinized during your divorce. Don't badmouth or lash out against your wife, her family, or her attorney. Even after the divorce is final, any such activity can be used against you in a child custody matter.

