 Lost or stolen licenses can be used to commit crimes and should be reported to your local police department. The reporting process will also help you prevent identity theft. One you report the lost or stolen license, keep the report.


Even though it is recommended you do this, it is not a legal requirement and any failure to complete this step will not alter your ability to get a replacement., You must replace an old license in person if your name has changed or if your license was issued prior to July 1995 (in order to get a new picture)., When you visit your local MVD office, you will need to present the same forms of identification as if you were changing an out-of-state license., The fee for replacing a license with a duplicate is $12.Most MVD offices will accept cash, check, or credit cards.
 If you do not have to visit an MVD office in-person, you might want to consider getting your duplicate online. To start, visit http://servicearizona.com/duplicateLicense?popularclick and click on the button for a "duplicate driver license."


You will need to enter your name, date of birth, driver license number, and the last four digits of your Social Security number.
You will then explain why you need a duplicate license. In this case, you would explain that your original has been lost or stolen.
Pay the $12 fee using a credit card.
Print out your receipt and your duplicate will be mailed to you in about four weeks., If you do not have access to a computer but you do not want to go to the MVD office, you can call 800-251-5866. Let them know you need to apply for a duplicate and they will help you from there. You will pay the $12 fee over the phone with a credit card. Your license should arrive in about four weeks., You can send a written request, along with a check for $12 (payable to Motor Vehicle Division), to Motor Vehicle Division, P.O. Box 2100, MD 510, Phoenix, AZ 85001. Your request should include your name, date of birth, Social Security number, Arizona address, and your reason for needing a duplicate. Your new license should arrive in around four weeks.