 Puppies are naturally playful and curious, and they develop quickly during the period between 3-12 weeks. It’s important to socialize them during this formative time; once your puppy has reached 21 or 22 weeks of age, it will no longer be developing as quickly.Failing to socialize your puppy during this crucial stage may result in an adult dog that lacks important social skills.


It’s important that you introduce your pup to others around the same size and weight, especially when yours is 3-8 weeks old. If you introduce your small pup to a much larger, older puppy, the larger dog could potentially knock down or hurt yours in the excitement of playing.;
, Puppy classes are specifically designed to allow pups to meet one another, and to play together in a safe, supervised environment. These socialization spaces can go a long way towards familiarizing your dog with other pups of its own age, and can replicate the social environment that your pup would’ve gotten with its litter-mates.Puppy classes are often offered by large pet stores, such as PetSmart and Petco. Also ask your veterinarian and the staff or owners of your local pet store if they know of any local puppy classes. Finally, look at the vet’s office and pet store for posted signs or flyers advertising puppy classes.
However, before considering a puppy class, make sure that your pet has had all necessary vaccinations. If any of the pups at the class haven’t been vaccinated, they pose serious health risks to the other animals.
If there are no puppy classes in your area, reach out to your friends and acquaintances. It’s likely that one or more of them have puppies and would be happy to socialize the animals together.
 The entire purpose of socialization will be defeated if your puppy finds the process overwhelming or scary. When socializing your puppy with other dogs, always make sure that your pup is having a good time—playing, wagging its tail, barking—and does not feel overwhelmed or threatened.If you’re exposing your puppy to new dogs and the puppy huddles in the corner, either remove your pup from the situation or have some of the other dogs/puppies leave. You don’t want your puppy to associate other dogs with feelings of fear and anxiety.

