 Open a new web browser and go to this website, squareup.com/signup#user_signup. This is the Square Up sign-up form.;
, On the sign-up page, you will see four fields. Enter your email address in “Enter Your Email” and “Confirm Your Email” fields.
 Enter it in the “Create a Password” field.
 When you’re done, click “Continue” at the bottom of the page.
 Complete your Business Information details, as requested on the page, and Address by entering it in the provided fields. Click “Continue” button to proceed.


Square Up will then provide details on how they will send you the card reader after you complete the registration. The card reader will be sent to the physical address you provided. You can continue to the next steps only after you have received the card reader.
 The card reader you receive will be packed in a Square Up box. Unbox the card reader. It is advised to clean the magnetic part with a tissue paper or a napkin, then connect it to the headphone jack of your Android device.
 It is the application with two gray squares in a white background. If you don’t have the application installed on your device, you can download it for free from the Play Store.
 Once launched, the app will provide you with instructions on how to connect it with your bank account. Just follow the on-screen instructions to do so.
 Once you’ve connected, you will see it as a digital card reader machine on your screen. You can enter the amount of the transaction or your purchase, and it will be shown on the amount box, located at the top of your screen.


You can also add tax to the amount by tapping on the menu button located on the top left of your screen. It will open a pop up. Tap on “Taxes,” and it will allow you to add tax to your transaction. You can add multiple taxes according to your transaction by repeating the process.
 After entering the amount, tap “Proceed” at the top right of your screen (right arrow icon). Tap the “Credit Card” option, and it will take you to the next page where you will be asked to enter the details of your credit card; just input the necessary information asked on the screen.
 Once done with the credit card details, swipe your credit card through the Square Up card reader. You will see the Square Up application authorising your transaction. Wait until the authorisation is completed.
 After the authorisation is completed, the application will ask you for your digital signature. Sign on the screen with your fingers then tap the “Continue” button on the top right of your screen.
 You will be asked if you want the receipt of your transaction sent to you by Text or by Email. Tap the option you prefer, and provide the details needed (e.g., cell number or email address). If you don’t want a receipt, select “No Receipt.”


Once done, tap the “New Sale” button, located on the top right of the screen, and you are ready for the next transaction.

