 Use sweet-smelling soap and shampoo, and clean your face with a face cleanser.


If you want to have a luxurious bath, and have the time for this, then go ahead!;
, Clear the decks for a new coat. If you need a manicure, now is the ideal time for this. Once done, paint two coats of nail polish on each nail.
 An important part of any date is clean teeth and sweet breath.
 A dab of perfume or cologne is nice. Definitely use some deodorant under your arms as nerves will probably make you sweat a bit. Don't wear too much perfume or cologne, or it will risk causing your date to gag. Always think what might happen if he or she hated the scent you've chosen!


If you have a strong perfume, spritz two puffs of perfume in the air in front of, close your eyes, wait 5 seconds, and then walk through the puffs of perfume.
 If you're not sure where you'll be going, dress smart casual. Some other ideas are:


Going for a dance: For girls: Dark wash skinny jeans, paired with wedge heels, a pastel tank top and a flirty shrug/cropped cardigan. Accessorize with sterling stud earrings and a charm bracelet. For guys: Neat jeans (chinos are good), t-shirt or shirt and nice shoes.






For a sunny day: For girls: A short, strapless, bright colored dress. Wear it with either matching gladiator sandals, or soft ballet flats, and a pretty necklace. If it's cold, cozy up with a sweatshirt. For guys: Polo top or t-shirt and neat shorts or pants.
For the beach or park: For girls: Shorts, a summer halter, and sandals. A cute anklet and a tribal bracelet pair well. If it's winter, then skinny jeans, moccasins/ballet flats, a halter and an over-sized cardigan look fantastic. For guys: T-shirt, shirt or jacket and jeans, trousers or shorts.For a visit to the beach, be sure to pack shorts or a swimsuit. If you are going to a fancy restaurant, wear a nice dress or a nice pair of pants and some respectable shoes.
If you are just going for a walk in the park, wear something nice but casual, such as a top, pants and a belt. Since this is the ultimate non-gendered look, it's a perfect solution for all events really.
 You could curl it, straighten it, wear it in a ponytail or braid, whatever you like. Or, just comb or brush it and leave it be. Fussing too much with your hair can make it seem like you've tried way too hard.
 For guys, this isn't a big deal but for some girls, especially in North America, it's considered essential. However, if you're not the type to wear makeup, then don't feel obliged. It's best to be known for who you are than for wearing something that makes you extremely uncomfortable., You don't want your date seeing a pimple!

, Keep it simple and have a kissable face not a minefield of minerals and artificial coloring.

Try a thin line of charcoal-colored liner on your bottom lash line, champagne-colored eyeshadow and sparkly lip gloss.
Or black mascara on your lashes, light-rose lipstick, and a thin layer of dark peach blush. If you usually wear dark eye makeup and cherry lipstick, then tone it down.
Lavender-colored eyeshadow, clear mascara, and tinted and shiny lip stain.






Wear a pretty tinted gloss, some mascara, and blush.
 Pearl necklaces, sparkly bracelets, and rings are good ways to show off your personal style.
 This is good because it adds to your overall look and it is convenient for storing gum, mints, tissues, cellphone. However, the bag isn't essential and if you prefer a wallet or a wad of cash plus phone in the pocket, that's okay too.
 If you see any makeup mistakes, pimples, or a messed up bit of hair, fix it. Now go out and have fun!

, This is the best form of appearance you can produce for the date.