 Summertime doesn’t just throw your sleep off-kilter. Your whole daily schedule changes, which can be pretty fun and relaxing, but also difficult to kick to the curb when it ends. When you wake up, eat your breakfast at the same time as you will when you wake up for school.


Studies have shown that breakfast helps wake you up and gives you more energy. Eating in the morning provides your body with glucose, the source of energy for your whole body, so it’s not surprising if you often feel lethargic when you first awaken.And why breakfast will help pep you up – you are, after all, breaking your overnight fast.
Research also shows that eating carbohydrate-rich cereals improves your mood, which can only help in gearing up for school., After you wake up, proceed as if you are going to school. If you normally eat first, do that. If you normally take a shower first, do that.The point is to reform habits, so when school starts you won't be quite so startled when the alarm starts ringing in your ear and the act of getting out of bed won’t feel quite so drudging.


Make sure you finish the job. For instance, if you normally style your hair and wear make-up to school, do your hair and make-up during this period of readjustment, too.
Also work toward getting it all done in the same amount of time that you have allotted for getting ready once school starts. If you get in the habit now, you won’t feel so rushed later.
 If you’re able, leave the house at the same time that you would for school. This will push you to stick to your schedule, and it will get you back into the habit of doing something outside of the home in the morning.Here are some suggestions:


You could go to the library. This could serve the dual purpose of also helping you freshen up on your Algebra, for instance, or catch up on your summer reading.
Go to a friend’s house who is also re-establishing his/her morning routine. Together you can set off for the day to go to the park, see a movie, go the mall and so forth.
Sign up for a morning class in your community. Many local art centers, YMCAs, churches and parks departments offer a variety of classes throughout the summer for students to take during breaks.

