 Before you bathe your dog, you need to thoroughly brush its fur. Brushing will help remove knots, tangles, and dead hair. If you run into any matted hair, gently work out the mats with your fingers. Do not try to brush it out.








If you cannot work through the matted fur with your finger, apply a detangler and then try to un-matt the fur. You can then use a small comb to loosen the hairs. If none of this works, you will need to cut out the mat.
Do not bathe your Maltese without removing mats. The mats will only get worse when exposed to water.
 Thoroughly wet your dog before you apply the shampoo and conditioner. Try not get any water in the eyes or ears. Apply a straight line of shampoo down your Maltese's back and work in the shampoo. Use a plastic cup or a spray nozzle to rinse off the shampoo. Once you have rinsed out the shampoo, use these same steps and apply the conditioner.








Bathe your dog in a bathtub or sink.
Remove any bows, collars, or dog clothing before you begin.
Do not use human shampoo and conditioner on your dog. These products are too harsh for Maltese skin., Gently pat down your Maltese with a soft towel once you are finished bathing. Do not completely dry your dog with the towel. You want the fur to be damp when you brush it again.








You can also use a blow dryer to dry the fur. A hands-free canine dryer is better than a hand held dryer. The hands free dryer will allow you to brush the hair during the drying process.
Use low to medium heat to dry the fur and dry small sections at a time.
 Brush your dog from head to toe after each bath. Start with the hair that is closest to the skin and work your way out. Keep in mind, the fur should still be slightly damp when you are brushing the fur.








The face should be the last part of your dog that you brush. Use a metallic comb when you are doing this.
If you notice long hair around your dog's anus while you are brushing, trim the hair so that feces will not stick to it when your dog has a bowel movement.
 Your dog's nails should be softer after a bath. This is an ideal time to cut and trim the nails. Only cut the tips of the nail and be careful not to cut too deep. Cutting too deep may result in bleeding.


Trim any hair that you see between your dog's toes at this time as well.
You can purchase nail clippers from your local pet store.
 Use doggie toothpaste and a doggie brush to clean your dog's teeth. Never use human toothpaste brush your dog's teeth. Apply a small amount of toothpaste to the toothbrush and rub it against the front teeth. You do not have to brush the back of the teeth.If you do not buy a doggie toothbrush, you can use a human baby toothbrush. These brushes are super small and soft.You can also purchase a finger brush that may easier to use.
Regular teeth cleaning is important because small dogs are more likely to develop gum disease, tartar buildup, tooth loss, and gingivitis., Dampen a clean cotton ball and wipe the inside of your dog's ear until you no longer see any residue. You will probably need to use multiple cotton balls. Never use a Q-tip to dig down into the ear.If the cotton ball is not getting the job done, you can use a ear cleaning solution.
If you notice a strong odor or a heavy wax buildup, take your Maltese to the veterinarian.
If your dog keeps shaking its head, tilting its head, or scratching its ear, your dog may have some sort of ear problem.

