 Many professionals suggest the use distractions to alleviate anxiety you might feel about your bus ride.Self distractions can take many forms depending on your interests and preferences. If you are the sort that likes scenery, you can take your mind off the bus ride by sketching the landscape or playing eye-spy with a friend. Many activities that you do in your room at home can also be used as distractions from whatever it might be that you dislike about the bus.
 Decide on common roadway sites, like convertible cars, construction vehicles, wood paneled vehicles, and others. Assign point values to the objects to turn the game into a competition with your friends.


Make things more interesting by giving rare objects, like a Rolls Royce, more valuable by assigning a higher point value.
 The board for the classic game battleship is numbered 1 - 10 horizontally and A - J vertically. Take turns trying to guess where your enemy's ships are hidden. Keep your paper hidden and place:


1 carrier (5 squares long)
2 battleships (4 squares long)
3 destroyers (2 squares long)
2 cruisers (3 squares long)
1 submarine (3 squares long)

, Draw a grid of unconnected dots and then take turns with your friends, each turn requiring a player to draw a single line to connect only two dots. When you form a box, write your initial inside to claim it as your own and earn a point! Each box you complete earns you a bonus turn.
 Though if you have motion sickness, reading might not be the distraction for you.Check out comic books, genres in your areas of interest (fashion, science, fantasy), or review schoolwork to prepare for your next class.
 You might be surprised to learn that anyone can get motion sickness.You can prevent this from happening by eating something light before traveling, sitting somewhere you can clearly see the road ahead of you, and wearing a wristband one and a half inches up your arm from where your wrist bends., Social media might make it hard for you to concentrate on homework, but on the bus it can make a difficult ride home a little more bearable. If you're not in the mood to interact with other people on the bus, pop in your earbuds and listen to some of your favorite tunes.


Handheld games can make your bus ride pass in a flash, but be careful to check bus rules before you play, as some districts do not allow handheld games at school or on the bus.
 Preparedness can do a great deal to ease your mind.Why not see if you can take a tour of the bus and meet the driver before you have to take your first ride? Most school districts and transit authorities provide online resources for bus etiquette, but some major points to keep in mind are:



At the bus stop, do not run, do not jostle others waiting for the bus or roughhouse with friends, and try to arrive five minutes before the bus.While on the bus, stay in your seat, remain seated while the bus is moving, talk quietly and try not to be distracting to the driver, and never play with emergency exits.Getting off the bus, do not run, go straight home, and never attempt to chase a bus down to retrieve a forgotten possession. If you drop something around a bus and want to pick it up, make sure you have the bus driver's attention and they clearly know what you are doing.
 Self-talk is your inner voice. It's what you tell yourself in your own head, and it's a useful tool to help you accept your need to take the bus. If, as an example, most of your peers drive to school and you ride the bus, you might feel self-conscious. When you feel this way, ask yourself "Why? Does the bus really determine my worth?" By doing this you will begin to address the source of your embarrassment, which is much healthier than avoiding it., It's frequently the case that people believe loneliness to be the result of a personal shortcoming or failure.The most important thing is for you to reach out when you feel lonely and have compassion for the fact that most people feel lonely at least some of the time.Focusing on the needs and feelings of others can help take your mind off feeling friendless and break up negative thoughts you might be caught up in., Many schools allow a parent to ride along while you adjust to the new routine of riding a school bus. Or, if you have friends or a relative that go to your school, why not ask them to have a sleepover so you have moral support on the bus the next day?

