 Vibrato is an effect that warbles a note while you play. Vibrato is achieved by bending and unbending your finger as you play on a string.This dynamic is usually marked as “Vibr” underneath the notes that should be played as vibrato., Pizzicato is a technique, usually noted as "pizz" or sometimes spelled out in its entirety, that indicates you should play a note by plucking the violin string with your finger.


If there is no obvious “pizz” or “pizzicato” designated, then assume the musical piece should be played as “arco,” or using the bow to play the notes., Pizzicato may also be designated with the Bartok pizzicato symbol, also known as a “snap pizzicato.” This symbol, a circle with a vertical line through the top, will appear above the note to be plucked. This type of pizzicato is given an extra snap by pinching the string with two fingers and snapping it back into the finger board., A tremolo is a style of playing very quick, rapid sounds as the bow draws back and forth across the string. The tremolo is noted with thick, short diagonal lines drawn through the note or the stem of the note.They can be either measured or unmeasured.


One diagonal line means 1/8 note tremolo (measured).
Two diagonal lines mean 1/16 note tremolo (measured).
Three diagonal lines mean an unmeasured tremolo.
 Style markings give you an indication of the mood with which to play music. These are typically noted in Italian.Some of the more common words you’ll see are:



Con: With

Poco a poco: Little by little

Meno mosso: Less movement

Dolce: Sweetly

Allegro: Quick and lively

, Dynamics in sheet music indicate how loud or quiet you should play. These are typically indicated below the staff and will change as you progress through the music. Written in Italian, these range from very quiet (pianissimo) to mezzo (medium) to fortissimo (very loud).Dynamics usually show up as lower-case letters, such as p (piano), mf (mezzo forte), ff (fortissimo) and so on.
Crescendos and diminuendos are also used, which indicate that your playing should get louder or quieter gradually. They are typically indicated by a long, thin carrot or accent mark.

