 You should gather everything you will need to write this story. You should get pens, pencils, paper, erasers and a pencil sharpener.;
, You should sit back and let your imagination run wild. You should imagine what you want the story to be like. There are many ways to gather ideas for a story, be it inspiration from your life, the world around you, or the works of other film makers but it is important you think outside the box and try to bring something new to the world. Try your best to come up with an idea that you and others would enjoy, ensuring that is worth all the effort writing the script will entail.
 You have to make a decision and decide what kind of story you want to write. If the plot to the movie is given to you already then build upon that.
 You have to construct the story from scratch. If you want ideas then you should read a few books that have to do with the plot of the movie. This will give you an idea of what to write. Possibly the most important aspect of this step is ensuring that the frame of your story has no big conflicting story points or plot holes in it (unless put there intentionally *a dangerous move probably left to the professionals but if it works out, go right ahead*). This simple self criticism could save you hours if not days of hard work in the future trying to rework the tale so that it all makes sense later on when there are already details built upon the faults.
 You should write out a draft for the story. You should review this yourself and decide if it is what you wanted. If it is not what you wanted then write another rough draft.is what you wanted. If it is not what you wanted then write another rough draft.|}}

, You should show your rough draft to people you trust. Have them read the draft and tell you what they like or don't like about it. This way you know what you can correct or what looks good.
 You should write out a lot of pages for your story. You should have this around as a sample to show people your work. This will give people you are working with an idea of how the story is coming along.
 After you are done with your story, you can check it over and over again for mistakes. If you have the income take your story to an editor and have him or her review your story. If you have a professional who can review your story for free then go ahead.
 You should call all the important people you are working for or want to work for. Let them know you are done with your story. Setup a meeting and have them review your story.

