 It's normal to feel anxiety when you're on your own in a new place, but this can make it difficult for you to approach new people and make friends. Make sure you start your day with a protein filled breakfast, like eggs or yogurt, and avoid caffeine.When you start feeling anxious, take a few deep breaths and remind yourself:


It's normal to be nervous when new somewhere.
Everything is OK. There's nothing wrong with being new to a place.
People move other places all the time and are just fine. I can make new friends, too!, When you introduce yourself, don't stop at "hello"! Ask your conversation partners a question after you give your name, or add some extra information about yourself. You can do this simply by offering a quick greeting, your name, and adding a question. Some examples of this might look like:


"Hi, I'm Tony, what brings you to this party?"
"Hi, I'm Sarah, how do you know the host of the party?"
"Good to meet you, Tom. I'm Sam and I just moved from New York. The host is my next door neighbor - how do you know him?", Even if you hate making small talk, you can't expect to jump into deep or personal conversations with people you've just met. There's nothing wrong with starting with safe, simple topics like work, hobbies, favorite books, movies, and so on.


You might also talk about differences between where you are now and where you used to live, like differences in climate or geography., It can be daunting thinking you have to rebuild your social life in a few weeks or months, and these feelings might make it difficult for you to put yourself out there and meet new people. Reach out to people you already have some kind of connection with, like acquaintances, classmates, coworkers, or the friends of closer friends. See if they have free time and would like to do something, like play ultimate frisbee or see a local festival., Meeting people is the first step to making friends someplace new, now you need to turn these acquaintances into friends! Follow up with people you think you might enjoy spending time with and invite them over for dinner or out to do something fun. As you become more comfortable with your acquaintances, ask questions about their personal lives to show him you're interested in becoming closer friends.


Always try to show interest, even if your acquaintance is on a topic you're indifferent about. Asking questions and showing interest can help build a friendship quickly.
Keep eye contact while talking and use the other person's name to improve your connection and help you remember the new name.