 It's the grey gear icon that's on one of your Home screens (or in a folder entitled "Utilities").;
,,, It should turn green, signifying that your entire Camera Roll is now uploading to iCloud.


In order for the iCloud Photo Library to work on your device, you'll need to have enough storage in your iCloud account for your entire library to fit.
While in the "Photos" menu, you can also slide the My Photo Stream switch off to disable Photo Stream, which also eats up photo space.
 After your photos finish uploading to your iCloud Photo Library, you can delete any undesired duplicates from your iPhone.
 This is the multicolored pinwheel icon on one of your Home screens.


If you can't find the Photos app on any of your Home screens, check your folders as well.
 This is in the bottom right corner of your screen.
 If you want to view all of your photos in one place, you can select Camera Roll in the top left corner of the page.
 This is in the top right corner of your screen.
, It's in the bottom right corner of your screen.
 Depending on how many photos you're deleting, this button will change. For example, if you're deleting 12 photos, the button will read "Delete 12 Photos."

, You'll find this in the top left corner of your screen.
,, It's in the bottom left corner of the screen.
 Doing so will permanently remove your selected photos from your phone, thereby clearing up space for more photos to follow.
 It's the grey gear icon that's either on one of your Home screens or in the "Utilities" folder.
,, It should turn green. Doing this will prevent your iPhone from keeping the normal exposure of a photo that was taken with HDR enabled, which will cut down on the amount of space each individual photo takes.
 It's in the "Camera" group of options above the "Keep Normal Photo" slider.
 Not all iPhones or iPads will have every option listed here:


720p HD at 30 FPS - Takes up 60 MB per minute.
1080p HD at 30 FPS - Takes up 130 MB per minute.
1080p HD at 60 FPS - Takes up 165 MB per minute (iPhone 6S/iPad Pro and up).
4K at 30 FPS - Takes up 350 MB per minute (iPhone 6S/iPad Pro and up).
 This is in the top left corner of your screen.
 Only iPhone 6S, iPhone 6S Plus, iPhone 7, and iPad Pro users will see this option., Your options include:

1080p HD at 120 FPS - 350 MB per minute.
720p HD at 240 FPS - 300 MB per minute.
 Your videos will now be recorded in a lower resolution. If you shoot a lot of video, this will make a noticeable difference in the amount of space your videos take up.
 This is the camera-shaped icon on one of your Home screens.


You can also swipe up to open the Control Center and then tap the camera icon in the bottom right corner.
 This will disable the "Live Photos" feature. Live Photos combine a burst of photos into one exposure--disabling this feature will clear up a significant amount of room for future photos.

If you don't have an iPhone 6S or newer model (or an iPad Pro), you won't have this option.
If this circle is white, the Live Photos feature is already disabled.
 This is to the left of the Live Photos circle. Tapping it will disable the "High Dynamic Range" (HDR) setting, which compresses multiple exposures into one photo.


If HDR has a slash through it, it's already disabled.

