 Pills and chewable tablets of simethicone can be found at your local drug store. It can help reduce bloating as well as the pain associated with gas. Consult a doctor before taking if you are pregnant.Some over-the-counter brands include:


Gas-X
Imodium Multi-Symptom Relief
Maalox Anti-Gas
Alka-Seltzer Anti Gas
Mylanta Gas

, If you have irritable bowel syndrome, you should ask your doctor for a prescription that will target the specific causes of your bloating. Your doctor may recommend a pill that contains either Lubiprostone (such as Amitiza) or Linaclotide.Dietary recommendation for people with IBS include avoiding food that causes gas, including cabbage, broccoli, and cauliflower, and eliminating gluten. Other medications include fiber, antidiarrheal medication, antispasmodics, antidepressants, and antibiotics.
 If you have severe bloating caused by Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS), you can ask your doctor if a medication containing spironolactone (such as Aldactone) will help. Your doctor may also recommend birth control.Other recommendations include skipping salt and eating a healthy diet. Further, avoiding caffeine and alcohol can help prevent PMS symptoms.
 If you want a more natural way to treat your bloating, you can try probiotics. Probiotics help balance out your natural gut bacteria. Look for tablets containing Bifidobacterium Infantis (sometimes listed as B. Infantis), as this is the best probiotic for bloating and gastrointestinal issues.You can also eat some plain yogurt. Yogurt is a natural source of probiotics.Other food containing natural probiotics include the following: pickles, kefir, tempeh, kimchi, sauerkraut, buttermilk, and miso.

Lactobacillus and bifidobacterium are the best for easing bloating symptoms.
 Carmint tea may be able to relieve the bloating and pain associated with bowel disorders, such as irritable bowel syndrome.Boil water, and remove it from heat for a minute before steeping the carmint.


Carmint is also known as a catmint or catnip.
 While activated charcoal (also known as charcoal caps) is a popular home remedy, there is not enough evidence to show that it can help with bloating, gas, or flatulence. Furthermore, if you have obstructed intestines, you could make it worse.