 Make an adjustable slip knot on the hooked end of your crochet hook with one end of your yarn.


The unattached end of the yarn, or "tail end," will be ignored for the remainder of the pattern. The end still attached to the skein, or the "working end," will be the side you draw from as you make the hat.
 Make four chain stitches from the loop of yarn on your hook.
 Make one slip stitch through both loops of your original chain stitch, which is also the fourth chain from the hook. This will join the last and first stitches and form a starting ring.
 Make two chain stitches. Then, work 13 double crochets into the middle of the ring previously created. Slip stitch through both loops of the first double crochet to join the last and first stitches, completing the round in the process.


Note that the first two chain stitches do not count as a stitch in this round.
 For the second round, work two double crochets into each stitch of the previous round. Slip stitch the first and last double crochets of this round to join them together.


When done, you should have 26 stitches in this round
Note that you should not turn your work around for this step. Your stitches should be made in the same direction as those made previously.
 Chain two. Make one double crochet in the first stitch of the previous round, then two double crochets in the next stitch, followed by one double crochet in the stitch after that. For the rest of the round, make two double crochets in one stitch followed by one double crochet in the next. Your last stitch should be a set of two double crochets.


When completed, you should have 39 stitches in this round.
Join the last and first stitches with a slip stitch.
 Chain two. Work one double crochet into each of the next two stitches, then two double crochets into the third stitch of the previous round. Repeat this pattern around the rest of the way, making one double crochet, then another one double crochet, then two double crochets.


This round should have 52 stitches when you finish it.
Join the last and first stitches with a slip stitch.
 The pattern for each of these rounds will be the exact same. Chain two at the start of the round, then work one double crochet into each stitch of the previous round. Join the last and first stitches of each new round with a slip stitch.


Each of these rounds should still have 52 stitches.
 Chain two, then flip your hat around. Continue making one double crochet in each stitch of the previous round as before, and conclude the round with a slip stitch.


Rounds 15 and 16 are also made using this pattern, but you should not flip the hat around any more when making your rounds.
Each of these three rounds should have 52 stitches.
 Chain one, then make one single stitch into the first stitch of your previous round. Follow this pattern around the entire previous round, making one chain then one single crochet.


Do not skip any stitches of the previous round.
Join the last and first stitches of this round using a slip stitch.
 Cut the end, leaving a 2-inch (5-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook and tighten to create a secure knot.


Weave the excess end into a few stitches of the hat to hide it.
Turn up the last three rows of double crochet to form a cuff on the hat and finish the project.

