 "Hacks" — downloadable programs that affect your gameplay — are widely available for Minecraft. Using one or more of these hacks is usually fairly simple, but since there are so many hacks available, there's no one-size-fits-all approach to using them. In this section, we'll give a brief overview of how to get and use a hack. For more detailed information, consult the online resources for the hack you've chosen.


One good source for Minecraft hacks is MCHacks.net.There are other fine hack sites, but MCHacks.net has a fairly easy-to-use interface and plenty of selections.
 On the hack site, browse the selection of available hacks and find one that appeals to you — usually, the features for each hack will be listed on the download page for the hack. Download the hack and locate it in your downloads folder.


For example purposes, you may want to follow along with these steps by installing Nodus Hacked Client, which allows you to fly, auto-mine, move through walls, and more. Nodus is available for download here., Most hacks come in compressed "zip" files. In order to install your file, you need to use a program that can decompress and extract the files. This process is fairly easy — see our articles on Winzip and other extraction programs like 7Zip for more information.


Note that the extraction process will not be identical for every hack. Always read the read-me or help file included with the download if you're not sure how to proceed.
 Usually, once you extract your hack, you want to move the hack folder into your Minecraft directory. Depending on the hack you've downloaded, this location can differ. Consult the read-me/help document that came with your hack for more information.


In the case of the Nodus Client, the precise file location you want to move the hack folder to differs based on your operating system:

Windows: %appdata%\.minecraft\versions

Mac: ~Library/ApplicationSupport/minecraft/versions

Linux: \Home\.minecraft\versions

, Most hacks need to be enabled before you start playing the game. Some even require you to set up a new profile, so, as always, use the help resources that came with your hack to guide you.


To play with Nodus, follow these steps:Open the Minecraft launcher
Select "New Profile"
Set your profile name to "Nodus 2.0" and your version to "release Nodus"
Save your profile
Select your new profile and click "Play"

, Whenever you're using hacks, it's important to remember that not everyone in the game will appreciate the fact that you are able to do things that they cannot. Many servers will even have strict "no hacking" rules. For this reason, you may want to restrict yourself to servers with lax rules that allow for hacks and other cheat. Using hacks in "vanilla" servers is a great way to earn the hatred of your fellow players and have your I.P. address banned.


Never use hacks to intentionally screw up other players' projects or annoy them — this is called "griefing" and it's something most moderators will ban you for.

