 Make sure that the water temperature is relatively warm, between 80 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit (27-38 degrees Celsius). This warm water temperature will help to increase mobility and flexibility in aging dogs. It also helps to increase blood flow.If the water is too warm it can cause your dog to overheat.
 When you are first introducing your dog to using a water treadmill, you should start slowly. Your dog may be nervous around water and the equipment. Typically, the pet therapist will enter the tank with dog and stay with them throughout the first therapy session to make sure they are comfortable.If your dog is nervous around water, you should have them get used to walking on the treadmill first before filling up the tank with water. Most facilities will only add an inch or so of water to start, and then will gradually add more water as your dog gets used to the sensation.
Most dogs will eventually become accustomed to the equipment and will enjoy the exercise.
Dogs do not need to be able to swim because they will be able to touch the bottom at all times.
The clinician and/or veterinarian will evaluate your dog prior to treatment to make sure that exercise on a water treadmill is a suitable activity for your dog.
 Exercise on a water treadmill is an excellent option for senior dogs because of the added buoyancy that water provides. As your dog progresses through the treatment and muscle strengthening occurs, the pet therapist can decrease the amount of water to begin putting more pressure on the dog.As dogs age, they may develop sore muscles, stiff joints, arthritis or hip dysplasia. If you dog has one of these conditions, then using a water treadmill may not be ideal. He may do better with an exercise like swimming instead.
Initially, the pool will be filled with water to just below the dog's shoulder height.
Water will need to be adjusted specifically for each dog that uses the treadmill. You can do this by draining and adding water to the tank.
 The speed of the treadmill can also be adjusted to meet the needs of your dog. For instance, smaller dogs, with short legs, will generally walk at a slower speed than taller dogs. The clinician can also increase the speed throughout the exercise session in order to increase the water resistance and give your dog a better workout.Your dog should use the water treadmill once a week for 30 minutes at a time.
 Once your senior dog has completed an exercise session on a water treadmill, make sure that you thoroughly dry your dog. Older dogs will become colder more quickly than younger dogs. As a result, you should dry off the dog immediately once they get out of the water.Use a towel to dry the dog. This will help to remove some of the water. You can also use a blow drier to completely dry the dog once you get home.

