 If your parents are difficult, you can protect your sanity by keeping all visits with them short and sweet. Don't cross your fingers and expect a weekend stay will go along smoothly. Set parameters that prevent their difficulties from getting under your skin.


For example, you might arrange to visit with other family and friends whenever you come home. That way, your parents are more understanding when you have to cut the visit short.
It may also help to stay in a hotel rather than bunking at their house, and rent a car so that you can find activities around town for when you and your parent need a break., Sometimes, a supportive friend can be just the armor you need to face difficult parents. If you have a empathetic friend or partner who understands your family dynamic, it may be wise to invite them with you to visits.


This person can serve as a buffer to minimize your parents' "acting out." They can also change the subject when things get tense, or make you laugh when you get upset.
You might say to a friend or partner, "Would you mind going to visit my parents with me next weekend? I need someone there for support. I'll treat you to a nice dinner!", Deciding to forgive your parents for their past and current mistakes can take a burden off of you. It allows you to let go of the hurt and grief you have held onto, and possibly move forward. Those who hold grudges are the ones who get hurt, not the ones who the grudge is against.


Consult with your religious advisor or therapist if you have difficulty with forgiveness. They may be able to guide you towards the path of letting go., Talking to a therapist may help you to repair your relationship with your difficult parents. Or, at the very least, it may help you to accept what happened and move on. Having your parents attend a session with you could assist you in understanding each other, which could improve your relationship.


When approaching your parents, you could say, “I really want to repair our relationship. What we have done in the past and present isn’t working. I think we owe it to ourselves, and our relationship, to go to therapy together.” If they don’t want to go, simply accept their decision and go alone., Sometimes, walking away from a relationship is the healthiest thing you can do. If your parents are toxic and attempting to be in their lives only causes pain and hardships for you, cutting ties may be the best decision. Cutting someone out is a major move, so you’ll need to think long and hard before you do so.


Recognize what the repercussions of cutting your parent out of your life are before you do so. Consider how it will affect your siblings, children, partner, other family members, and your conscience. Decide if you will feel guilty for doing so, and if that burden is worth it.
On the other hand, cutting ties may help you release resentment and hatred. Carefully weigh the pros and cons before making such a big decision., Sometimes, people are difficult because your reaction is reinforcing their negative behavior. Knowing that they were able to get under your skin and upset you may give your parents the satisfaction they need to continue the behavior.


Instead of reacting, simply acknowledge what they say or do, and move on. Over time, your mature responses may be what it takes for them to stop. It may also be helpful to take inventory and see if you are acting difficult, as well. Being difficult with others will often cause them to react in kind to you.
 If you have siblings, they likely have the same relationship with your parents as you. Ask them about their experiences and how they cope. They may be able to offer you insight on how they deal with your difficult parents. If nothing else, you can be sounding boards for each other.


For example, you could say, “I have a hard time dealing with our parents when they are being difficult. Do you find that they act this way with you? If so, how do you handle it?” Confiding in those who are going through the same thing you are can make you feel better and more optimistic about the relationship.