 You can use any type of paper you want to make your pennants. The best paper to use is scrapbooking paper, because it is very colorful. Cardstock is also a good option, because it is sturdy. The paper can be all one color, or multiple colors.
 You will need one sheet of paper for each letter in your message. You will also need an extra sheet for the spaces between each word.
 You can use almost any shape you want, but the most popular shapes are circles, triangles, and rectangles. Make the template a few inches larger than the letters you are planning on using. It needs to be large enough so that you can easily read it across the room.


If you are using a rectangle, consider cutting a ^ shape into the bottom., Use a pencil if you can. Once you have cut the shapes out, erase any pencil marks that are still visible. These will be your pennants. You will be sticking the letters onto these.


If you could not find a pencil, cut the shapes out just inside the lines you have made.
 Use a contrasting color. This will create a sort of frame around the letter. To do this, take your template and cut it smaller all around by ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters). Trace the template onto contrasting sheets of paper, cut the shapes out, and attach them to the center of each pennant. You can use glue or clear, double-sided tape.
 The letters need to be several inches high, but smaller than the pennants. You will need one letter for pennant. Consider using a contrasting color to make them more visible. Here are some ideas on what you can use for the letters:


Use some large, letter stickers.
Paint the letters on using stencils and acrylic paint.
Cut the letters out of paper and glue them on. You can even use glitter scrapbooking paper for some extra sparkle.
 Choose a thin string, such as baker's twine, yarn, or balloon ribbon. Plan on leaving about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) of string at the front and end of your banner so that you can hang it.
 Use a hole punch to poke a hole in each top corner. Then, weave the ribbon through the holes like so:


Push the string down through the left hole.
Bring the string across the back of the pennant.
Pull the string up through the right hole.
Push the string down through the left hole of next pennant.
Bring it across the back of the pennant, and pull it back up through the right hole.
Keep doing this until you have no more pennants.
 Position it about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) below the top edge. Secure it in place with a long piece of clear tape. The tape should go from one side of the shape to the other.


If you are using a rectangle shape, tape the string 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) down from the top edge. Fold the top edge back by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) on top of the string. Secure it with glue or clear, double-sided tape.
 Depending on what you used, this can take anywhere between a few hours to a whole day.

