 Most business entities need an EIN. The IRS provides a detailed checklist to determine whether you need one on its website. You likely need an EIN if any of the following is true:

your organization has employees
you operate as a corporation or partnership
you file employment, excise, or alcohol-tobacco-and-firearms tax returns
you withhold taxes on income paid to a non-resident alien
you have a Keogh plan, or
you are involved with nonprofits, trusts and estates, or farmers' cooperatives.
 From Monday to Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. EST, you can use the official IRS online form to apply for an EIN.This is a fairly short application that asks for basic information such as your organization's name, address, and number of employees. The website should issue you an EIN immediately, as long as you have provided this information and meet the following criteria:You must be a responsible party of the organization (typically an owner or partner) and have a valid TIN (e.g., SSN, ITIN, EIN).The business must be located within the United States or U.S. Territories.
If the business (1) already has an EIN and (2) received this EIN online, it must apply using one of the other methods below when changing its EIN.
 If you have any questions about the application process, or if you think your business might already have an EIN but you do not know what it is, call the IRS at (800) 829-4933.If you are calling from outside the US, call 267-941-1099 instead., If you would prefer to fill out a paper application, print a copy of Form SS-4 here or visit a local IRS office and request a copy of this form (enter your ZIP code here to find the IRS office closest to you). Be sure to read the official instructions for completing Form SS-4, as they will tell you exactly how to fill out the form based on your individual circumstances. Fill out the form according to the instructions and then send it to one of the following addresses:Mail, applicants located in a U.S. state or District of Columbia:

Internal Revenue Service
Attn: EIN Operation
Cincinnati, OH 45999



Fax, U.S. applicants: (859) 669-5760

Mail, international applicants:

Internal Revenue Service
Attn: EIN International Operation
Cincinnati, OH 45999



Fax, international applicants: (859) 669-5987
Response by mail may take up to five weeks. Response by fax typically takes one week if you provide a return fax number.
 If you cannot obtain an EIN before the deadline for mailing your tax returns, send your returns in anyway with this notation:In the Employer Identification Number box, write "Applied For."
If you have not yet sent in an application, print and fill out Form SS-4 and attach it to the return.

