 Do not feel that you have to provide alcohol, especially if this is against your beliefs or for your health. Although for many people, parties and alcohol are deeply partnered, this does not have to be so.


Give party-goers a heads-up if your house is alcohol-free. Many people will bring drinks in the spirit of hospitality.
 If you are significantly impaired, you will not be able to effectively avoid or respond to hazardous situations. That may mean limiting your own alcohol consumption, or forgoing it.
 While this is the guest's responsibility,(you cannot demand a person be a designated driver), but making polite inquiries will make people consider the post-party strategy.


For large parties, some people give designated drivers specific bands to indicate they are not supposed to be drinking. While this is not a fool-proof system it does make people make a promise that is visible. People will also avoid offering alcohol to such people.
Consider having everyone turn their keys over. They would have to be sober to pick them up later. Either that, or everyone would agree to be staying the night with no driving. If so, make sure that there is a place for everyone to sleep (or pass out).
Be aware of the increased personal liability that there will be for whomever is returning key. Be sure of the potential driver.
Have a cab ride fund for whoever wants, or needs, one. They might need to get home, sooner than later. You're better off covering all your bases.
Have the number handy for the cab service. If you think that there is a chance that you will be using their services, you might call them and give them a heads up.
 In countries with legal drinking ages, you can be held criminally liable if your under-aged party-goer gets intoxicated at your party.


If adults are drinking at a party, it is relatively easy for teenagers to sneak alcohol. So consider carefully if you will provide alcohol for adult guests at your teenager's "Sweet 16" party.
For large teenage or young adult parties, be careful that you check the drinks regularly. Sometimes young party-goers will "spike" the drinks with alcohol such as vodka.
 People sometimes feel pressured into drinking if it is clear that only alcohol is served at your party. Also, if people choose to drink, it is always a good idea to have other drinks to "pace" oneself and avoid a hangover. Ideas include:


Water: not only bottled or ice water, but sparkling water or flavored waters.
Soda. Many people enjoy soft drinks, whether popular brands, energy drinks, or even premium quality sodas or even homemade soda.
Juices. You can offer plain juices, or offer sophisticated drinks like blood orange, pomegranate, or other "fancy" mixes.
Coffee or tea. At dinner parties, offering coffee or tea at dessert is traditional.
 Food will not stop a person from becoming intoxicated, but drinking on an empty stomach will get a person drunk very quickly. A party with only alcoholic beverages also send a subtle message that this is a drinking party.
 As a good host, you will want to make your guests feel that you are attending to them. But do not get insistent about constantly getting them drinks. Unintentionally, you could be sending the message that to please you, the guests must drink. Try instead:


Let them know where beverages are located, both alcoholic and non-alcoholic. That way, the guest can make his or her own decision with less pressure.
If a person says "no thank you" leave it there. Do not insist.
 You will need to be able to recognize all phases of drunkenness. This includes:


Slurred speech
Impaired movement
Marked difference in behavior, such as the normally person loudly singling karaoke off-key, or the boisterous friend sitting in a corner acting quiet and withdrawn.
, This is generally a rare thing and should be a last resort. If that is what you have to do to stop a drunk driver, then do it.
 For one thing, simply having one may raise uncomfortable questions about why you brought a breathalyzer to your own party. At drinking parties, such devices tend to become a tool in order to determine who is the most drunk; this is not conducive to responsible partying.

