 Your (hopefully) spouse-to-be should be surprised, delighted, and / or put a bit off-balance by your proposition. It is the sort of romantic moment most people live for, so be sure to get it right by planning it out early. Think about the appropriate place, time, and words to say. Try to think of things your lover particularly enjoys – favorite restaurants, activities, and / or music – but for whatever reason does not get to indulge in very often. Use these as background elements to set up a truly memorable proposition to marry.;
, If you want to make a great impact with what you say, plan to speak plainly and from the heart., Since you are doing the asking, it is your responsibility to have the engagement ring picked out ahead of time. Think about what your lover likes and dislikes. If there is jewelry for you to examine, do so and avoid gems and colors that make few or no appearances in your partner's current collection.


Feel free to specifically ask your partner about engagement rings, but be sure to do it well in advance of when you actually plan to buy the ring, so he or she will have forgotten all about it.
Do not feel as though you have to spend an exorbitant amount of money on an engagement ring. The more important thing is what the ring symbolizes. Besides, the wedding itself is likely to set you back plenty on its own.
 With the ring stowed safely away, begin your day or night out together. Be on your best behavior and keep things happy and bright. When the time comes, drop to one knee in front of your partner, pull out your ring, and say your piece. With any luck, you will get a resounding “yes!”.


Propose in public, if you can help it at all. Having witnesses around proves to your lover that you are ready to get married no matter who knows it and no matter what they might think. The people around you will love the show, too.
 Once the night is through and you are successfully engaged to be married, waste no time in laying out plans for the ceremony and honeymoon. Even a small civil ceremony needs a time and a place; most people will also want a more formal ceremony, whether religious or civil, which requires all kinds of event planning skills and plenty of money. Do not forget to register with a wedding gift registry, if you would like people to bring wedding gifts.


Plan the wedding with your lover. Include parents and legal guardians as well. More often than not, they will be glad to help plan and defray the cost of the event.

