 To have a sense of family unity, your family member will all have to learn to prioritize the family. This may mean making some sacrifices in other areas, but the sacrifices may lead to a stronger family unit. Some things you can do include:


Avoiding putting work before family plans. Don’t cancel family outings and other family plans if you can help it. This can be difficult, especially if you have a demanding job, but if you frequently cancel on your family to work late or pick up an extra shift, then this can affect your family’s sense of unity.
Making your family aware that they are your main priority. Your family might not know how much they matter to you. To ensure that they know, try mentioning it. For example, you might start a conversation about values over dinner one night and say something like, “I think the thing that I value the most is my family.”
Limiting individual outings. Having too many things going on outside of your home may also interfere with your ability to form a strong family unit. This means that you may have to be pickier about what sort of extracurricular activities or hobbies you and your family members engage in. For example, instead of having your kids do three or four different extracurriculars, have them just pick one or two that they really like.
 Family traditions create a sense of identity for the family as a whole. They also give individuals something to look forward to. These traditions should generate positive memories and facilitate enjoyable gatherings that bring the family together.An example of a tradition is cooking an Easter salmon every year at a family gathering.
You can also have weekly traditions, such as Taco Tuesday, family game night on Thursdays, or Saturday morning walks.
 An obvious example of family adventures is a vacation. Unfortunately, many of people can only take one vacation per year (or less). Fill in the gaps between vacations with family road trips, even if they are only day trips. You can also go camping or hiking to create a memorable adventure to bring your family together., The most important way to establish unity is to gather together whenever possible. Gathering as a family allows the time needed to have adventures, traditions, and conversations that will unify the family. Make gatherings pleasant by avoiding arguments and facilitating good conversations.For example, you could sit down to eat dinner and talk with your family on three or four nights of every week. Or, you could plan on playing board games together once per week, such as on a Friday or Saturday evening. Try to identify something that will fit into your regular routine and that will allow you to enjoy each other’s company.
 Every family experiences tough times. Whether it’s a death in the family, a job loss, or some other hard time, you should be comfortable leaning on your family members. Also, be sure to let them lean on you when they need it. This will strengthen the bonds of family and reinforce that you can trust each other no matter what the occasion.

