  At first it's better not to have your Chihuahua wear their clothes for too long.  You want them to get used to them gradually.  It is better to start with 30 minutes to an hour of clothes wearing at first rather than a whole day.  If your Chihuahua is happy in his clothes than fine but for those who aren't as sure of them you will want to keep the times short in the beginning.  It's important to remember that your Chihuahua will still enjoy lots of time not wearing clothes!;
,  No one likes to wear clothes that are itchy, scratchy, or that just do not fit well and your Chihuahua is no exception.  Clothes should not be so big that they get in the way of your dogs play and normal activities nor should they be too tight around the chest or front legs.  Putting clothes that do not fit well on your Chihuahua is a good way to make him decide that clothes are a bad idea.  You will want to be sure that tags are not an issue and avoid anything too frilly or bulky until your Chihuahua is already used to clothes.  First clothes should be little shirts and simple dresses.  Think comfort.
  One of the best ways to ensure success with training your Chihuahua to wear clothes is to offer treats and just fuss over them when dressed. Dress them up for fun things like outings and walks.  This builds a positive association with their clothes for your dog.  Even chihuahuas who do not care for clothes as much are still cooperative because they know that getting dressed means something fun is coming around the corner for them.  This 'fun' can be an outing, a walk, some playtime, treats or anything your dog enjoys.  Just be sure to always have a fun activity or a tasty treat ready for your Chi once dressed.
  This can be a common problem especially when starting puppies with clothing. Get your dog dressed when you have time to spend with them.  This way you can be making this a fun attention filled time for your Chihuahua AND you are available to redirect their chewing on their clothes and keep them distracted so that they just forget about them altogether since they are having so much fun with you!

