 This is available onlineor in any driver license office.If you are in a driver's education course, you may get a copy of the Handbook as part of your course materials. Study the Handbook carefully. This contains the information that will be on the written test for your license.;
, You are allowed to start taking a driver’s education course when you are 14, but you must be at least 15 in order to apply for a Learner License., This may be a class sponsored by your high school or a private company. Alternatively, your parents may even teach you. This is referred to as PTDE, or Parent-taught Driver Education. They are all valid. , This is a program that is a new requirement (since September 2015) for any teens who wish to take the drive skills exam (which is a requirement for a license). The ITTD is a two-hour informational video designed to reduce the risk of automobile accidents caused by distracted driving. You will view the ITTD after you complete a driver education course but before the drive skills exam.
After completing the ITTD requirement, you will receive a certificate of completion, which you will need to show in order to take the drive skills exam.
 The application form is available online so you can download and print it,or you can pick one up at any driver license office. You may also be provided with application forms in your driver education course., When you are ready, you will need to take the following information with you to your nearest driver license office:


Your parents or legal guardian. (Your parents are not exactly a “document,” but you do need to have one of them with you.) This may not just be an older friend.
Proof of identification. This can be a U.S. Passport, or a birth certificate together with a social security card. There are some other documents that could be used instead, but these are the most common.Proof of Texas residence. For most students, a transcript from a Texas high school is the easiest way to show this. You may also bring evidence of your home address through a mortgage or lease.
The completed application form.
If you own your car, you need to bring proof of registration and insurance. If not, then you need a statement that says you do not own a car.License fee. The fee for a learner’s license is $16. You can pay by credit card, cash, check or money order.A statement of current high school attendance, or a diploma or GED. There is a form, the Verification of School Enrollment and Attendance, that you should be able to get from you high school office or guidance counselor.
A signed form that verifies that you completed a driver education class.
 After submitting your documents and verifying that they are all complete, you will take two tests:Written knowledge test. This will cover information that is in the Texas Driver’s Handbook regarding rules of the road and requirements for driving. The DPS has a monitored testing room for this purpose. You may not need to take the written exam, if it was a component of the driver education class you took. In this case, you will need to show some proof of having taken and passed the test already.
Vision test.
 You will be directed to pay the fee, if you haven’t done so already. If you have passed everything, you will have your picture taken for your license., You may drive only with a licensed driver over age 21 sitting in the seat next to you and you may not use any cell phone, whether hands-free or not, while driving.