 This is crucial if there are more than one person under the same room, especially with children. Designate a safe space, a room that can be easily locked and barricaded in the event of a burglary. You can make this your bedroom, or your child’s bedroom if you have children. Then designate a backup safe space, in case the path to your first option is blocked by the burglar.Make sure the safe room has a phone you can easily access. This can be a landline, or simply a cellphone that is kept within, charged.
Establish an escape route in case your safe space is compromised. If your safe space is on the second floor, this could mean an escape ladder by the window.;
, A masterful plan will fail brilliantly without masterful execution. Make sure everyone in your home knows exactly what to do in the event of a break-in. You can establish a safe word which, when shouted, will alert the household to an intruder. Use this word when you practice your plan, and your reaction to it will be instinctual., There are a few things you can do to improve the security of your home. Some require more of a time or monetary investment, while others are simply good practice.


Lock your doors and windows. Even if you’re at home, just locking up your home can deter possible burglars.
Get to know your neighbors. They can keep an eye on your home when you’re away, and will be more willing to help the police in the case of a break-in.
Keep the outside of your home well-lit. This is especially important for your home’s entry points. Motion-activated floodlights will surprise and possibly scare off a would-be burglar.
Keep the blinds closed. This hides valuables from view and it will be harder to tell if you’re home or not.
Keep the lights on, even when out of the house. That way, your home looks less empty and less inviting., It’s important to differentiate being prepared and living in fear. As you follow the above steps, learn to make them a habit, a normal part of life. This will go a long way to keeping you ready in case a burglar decides to enter your home as opposed to flinching at shadows.


If you find yourself constantly anxious and fearing a burglary, consider getting professional help to work through your worries.

