 It's normal to feel sluggish after a bad night of sleep, but you can wake yourself up faster if you do a physical activity when you wake up. Try to do around 10 minutes of a moderately physical activity to get your body active and awake. For example, you might try:A brisk walk
Going for a light run
Biking to work;
, It's a good idea to alternate physical and mental activities. This will wake you up faster. If you're short on time in the morning, you might be able to read an article while you eat breakfast. Or you could do a crossword while you're taking the bus to work.Try to avoid activities that keep your mind inactive, like watching videos or simply listening to music.
 Trick your body into feeling more awake by turning on lights or getting into sunlight. The light will signal to your body that it's time to start your day. Sunshine is the best for waking you up since you'll also soak up vitamin D and maintain your body's natural sleep cycle.Avoid hitting the snooze button and hiding under your pillow. This will only make you feel more groggy.
 Instead of loading up on fatty fried foods, you should choose foods with nutrients to get your day started. Eat a mixture of complex carbs and protein so your blood sugar stays steady and you have enough energy to begin the day.For example, you might eat oatmeal and an apple. Or you could have granola and a hard-boiled egg.
Avoid drinking caffeine first thing in the morning. Save it for your afternoon energy slump.
 For many, the hardest part of coping with a bad night of sleep is getting through the morning. Remind yourself that you just need to start your day. All you need to do is get through the day so you can get a restful night's sleep at the end of your day.


For example, when you feel tired, remember what you have to look forward in the evening. You might be looking forward to getting caught up on sleep, taking a relaxing bubble bath, or just watching your favorite show.
 Depending on your obligations, you may be able to reschedule your day around your bad night of sleep. If you can, move your hardest and mentally demanding tasks for early in the morning. You'll have a little burst of energy in the morning, but it will probably slump in the afternoon so avoid important tasks or meetings later in the day.For example, reschedule your big meeting or obligations for first thing. Save the mindless tasks for the end of your work day.
 If you find that caffeine gives you a little energy boost or keeps you more alert, plan on drinking some coffee or tea when you begin to feel an energy slump. Keep in mind that it will take some time to feel the effects, so try to drink some as soon as you begin to feel tired.Remember that caffeine may keep you awake and disrupt your next night of sleep. Stop drinking caffeine about seven hours before you plan on going to bed.
 Continue to eat healthy foods throughout the day so your blood sugar stays constant. You may still feel your energy drop in the afternoon. Instead of reaching for a sugary snack to go with your cup of coffee, have a healthy snack that will tide you over until dinner.For example, you might have hummus and pita chips or carrots. You could also have a piece of whole-grain toast and fruit.
 If simple tasks start to become difficult and you're having trouble focusing, take a catnap. Sleeping for just 10 to 20 minutes can make you feel more alert and give you a boost of energy to get through the rest of the day. Just make sure you don't sleep too long or you'll feel groggy.If you can, take a quick nap in your office or in your car on a break. If you don't have a private place to go to, even putting your head down on your desk can make you feel more rested.
 Getting more physical activity is a great way to stay alert through the day. A change of scenery and moving around a little can keep you from losing your focus. Even getting outside and being active for only a few minutes can restore your energy.For example, go for a walk around the block, take the stairs, take the trash out, or do some light housecleaning to get your blood flowing.
 See if you can make it to your normal bedtime before crashing. This way, you should fall asleep easily and stay asleep as your body recovers. It's fine if you need to go to bed a little early, just avoid going to bed as soon as you come home from work.


If you sleep early in the evening, you may throw off your sleep cycle, making it difficult to fall asleep at your normal bedtime.
 The good news is that you can recover from one bad night of sleep. If, however, you make a habit of not getting enough sleep, you will begin to accumulate a sleep debt that may be difficult, maybe even impossible, to make up. To prevent the long-term health effects of consistent lack of sleep, focus on restructuring your life and sleep schedule to ensure you get enough sleep moving forward (six hours a night at minimum, but ideally seven to nine).Avoid sleeping all the next day to catch up on lost sleep. Sleeping a little extra every night is the best way to catch up on sleep.
One study suggests a well-timed 20-minute nap may equate to one hour of extra sleep, helping make up short-term sleep debt., Create a simple sleep routine and stick to it. Go to bed at the same time every night and wake up around the same time in the morning, if you can. Calm your mind and relax before you go to sleep. Ease into your sleep routine.If you have trouble relaxing or calming yourself before bed, try dimming the lights or playing soothing music. Avoid staring at screens or using bright lights in the half an hour before you go to bed.
 Make your bedroom a comfortable and enjoyable place to sleep. You should only use your bed for sleep and sex. This will train your body to expect to sleep when you're in bed. Keep the bedroom a comfortable temperature so you're not restless as you try to fall asleep.If you still can't sleep, avoid just laying in bed. Get up and leave your bedroom. Do something non-stimulating (like reading — but avoid exciting thrillers or suspense novels) until you start to feel drowsy. Then you can return to bed and try to sleep.