 Place the pot on the stove. Turn on the stove on a medium to low setting. Let the water simmer., The fruit should be cut into quarter inch (6.35 millimeter) slices. You could use lemons, oranges, apples or other fruit of your choice. Use one piece of each fruit. Put the fruit into the pot.There is no specific amount of fruit to add to the mix. Add fruit until you get the smell you want to achieve.
 Once you have the pot simmering with a few fruit of your choice, go ahead and add some herbs. For instance, you could add some rosemary, cinnamon sticks, cardamom, basil or mint. Add a pinch or two of each of your favorite herbs.There is no specific amount of herbs to add for this recipe.
 The house will fill up with the fragrant smells of the fruit and herbs in the pot. You can use the same pot the next day but you will need to add more water.The pot should be changed after three days.
Keep an eye on the pot so you don’t burn it.
 Put a few drops of mint extract into a pot of simmering water. Add some dried cilantro. Once you get a desired intensity of aroma, stop adding cilantro. It will add a wonderful smell to your home.There is no specific amount of cilantro or mint for this recipe. Continue adding the ingredients until you get the desired intensity of aroma.
 Put a large pot on the stove and bring the water to a simmer. Add some parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme. Once you get the desired intensity of aroma, you can stop adding the herbs. Enjoy the fragrance.There is no specific amount of herbs to add. Keep adding herbs until you get the aroma you want.
 Bring a pot of water to a simmer. Add cinnamon sticks, vanilla extract, almond extract and nutmeg. Once you get the aroma you want, stop adding the herbs. Let the mix fill your house with the smell of fall.If you like, you can also add a bit of apple cider to the simmering water.
 Add a few sticks of cinnamon and some cloves to a simmering pot. The scent will freshen the air in your kitchen and throughout the entire house.

