 Your skin uses the moisture in your body to stay hydrated and nourished. When you get dehydrated, the water in your body is used for the highest priority functions, like blood flow, before it is used in the skin. By drinking at least eight 8 oz glasses of water per day, the skin all over your body will stay hydrated and not dry out quickly.Try to avoid alcohol and caffeine whenever possible as these can heighten the itchiness of dry feet., Diuretics used to decrease the amount of water in the body or topical or oral retinoids used to treat acne can cause temporary dry skin.If the side effect of dry skin is present for more than two weeks, discuss a potential medication change with your physician.
 Cotton socks allow your feet to breathe and dry off if you’re sweating. Keeping sweat against your skin will increase the rate at which moisture leaves the skin and your feet dry out.Change your socks daily or after sweating (e.g., from a workout or a long walk). Wash them well after each use.
Sleep in socks after you moisturize your feet each night.
 Avoid wearing the same pair of shoes day in and day out. Your feet need to breathe in order to retain moisture so try to wear supportive sandals during the summer or other shoes with air pockets. During the winter, avoid wearing your heavy winter boots indoors at work or school and instead bring another pair of lighter and more breathable shoes to change into., Harsh soaps do not get you any cleaner than one that is gentle to your skin. However, they do dry out your skin and leave you prone to dry skin. Harsh soaps deplete the fats in your skin, which leaves your skin feeling tight and dry.Dermatologists often recommend soaps with a high glycerin content, such as pure glycerin bar soaps and naturally made bar soaps. You can find these at most drug stores and all natural health stores., Instead of a having a hot shower or bath, keep the water at a warm temperature and limit your time to less than 10 minutes in the water. Hot water and low humidity in the air reduce the water in the outer layer of in the skin, which results in skin that feels tight and dry.A good rule of thumb is to set your water temperature in the shower/bath to one that feels comfortable but that doesn't make your skin red.

