 Your doe will need a nest box 28 days after mating to begin nesting in preparation for the baby bunnies. You can use a variety of materials, including a shoebox for the doe to use for the nest., You can get a metal, wood, or wire box to provide your doe with her nest box. Wood or wire may be better in colder climates, whereas metal may be a good option in warmer climates.


Your nest box should be relatively close the the following dimensions: 18 inches (45.7 cm) long X 10 inches (25.4 cm) wide X 6–10 inches (15.2–25.4 cm) tall.Clean your nest box thoroughly after purchasing. Try a 1:10 bleach to water ratio for an easy cleaner. If you do use bleach, but make sure all germs and cleaner have been removed before giving it to your pregnant doe.
 Your pregnant doe will need some cushioning whether you buy or make their nest box. Less shavings are better in the summer, whereas more should be used in the winter. Make sure to measure your shavings quantity with either a tape measure or using your finger up to the second knuckle.


If you use cedar shavings, they should be kiln-dried, which makes sure that the resins in cedar have been neutralized and will not be harmful to your doe or baby bunnies.
 This will help keep the baby bunnies warm once they are born. Additionally, the doe will likely chew or eat some of it as well.


When you are filling the nest box with straw, pack it loosely so there will be space for the doe to burrow space for her babies.
At the top of the nest box, try some field hay or timothy hay. This hay is more delicate and can help your doe's digestion., This burrow will tip your pregnant doe off that this is a nesting box. Additionally, it may make it easier for them to burrow a place for their baby bunnies.


The burrow can be made with your fist and needs only to be about the size of your hand. It gives the doe the starting point for creating their own larger burrow.
 You’ll need to check on the baby bunnies regularly, so make sure the nest box is easy for you to get to. Give the doe time to get used to the nest box, since they may not know what to make of it at first. Eventually, the doe will make its way to the nest box.

