


Measure the dimensions of your existing bathtub. Proper measurement will ensure that you purchase an appropriately sized new tub and fixtures, as well as confirm that the old tub will fit around other bathroom fixtures and through the door once it is removed. You may need to temporarily remove the sink, toilet or bathroom door in order to dispose of the bathtub.






Purchase and replace existing tiles that may become damaged or install a solid-surface tub surround.






Cover the existing bathroom floor with a drop cloth or a plastic tarp for protection.





;
,


Unscrew and remove the overflow cover plate, including any attached drain assembly.






Disconnect the drain, strainer and flange using a screwdriver and a strainer wrench.






Disconnect the waste-and-overflow unit (WO) from the drain line. You may access the WO from below the tub or via an access panel.






Remove the surrounding wall surface up to 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) above the tub. You will also need to remove the water spout and any faucet handles within the 8-inch (20.32-centimeter) range. Use a putty knife to remove tile, a drywall saw to cut through sheet rock or a reciprocating saw to cut through plaster walls.






Remove anchoring screws or nails that are securing the tub flange to wall studs.






Cut through any existing caulk with a utility knife and use a crowbar to pry the tub slightly away from the back wall.






Pry up first one end of the tub, then the other, using a crowbar. Ask a friend to help you lift the tub upright and remove it from the bathroom.



Replace any damaged plywood or floor covering.






Follow the tub manufacturer's instructions for securing ledger boards to the existing wall studs at the appropriate height.






Confirm that the new drain and waste-and-overflow unit will fit properly.
 Confirm proper placement and then permanently attach the unit per the manufacturer's instructions.
, Take care not to damage the protruding WO unit, or the interior surface of the bathtub.
, Close the plumbing access panel.
 Any existing gap between the two surfaces will allow puddled water to seep underneath the tub and cause damage to the subfloor.
, Seal the wall-meets-tub seam with a heavy bead of silicone or tile caulk.

