 Since airplane tickets get expensive during the holidays, you might try planning your itinerary so that you leave before the holiday rush and return after it. If you are self-employed, this may be a good option. If you have a lot of flexibility at your workplace, this could also be an option.Avoid flying on a Sunday.See if you can work remotely. You might consider asking your boss if it is possible to work remotely for a few days. If you get approval, you can stay a few extra days and take advantage of cheaper flying days.;
, By booking a connecting flight, you may be able to save some money. However, you should weigh the cost savings against the higher risk of getting delayed or stuck at the connecting airport. Consider how much savings are worth the extra risk of getting delayed and potentially missing your flight because of an issue at the connecting airport.Prior to searching for your flight, write down a dollar amount representing the cost savings that would be worth it for you to purchase a connecting as opposed to a direct flight. Use this dollar amount to inform your decision making.
 You can sometimes find cheaper flights leaving from airports in another city. If you find a cheaper flight leaving from an alternate city, you should also add up the cost of ground transportation to the other airport. If the cost of ground transportation plus the cost of the cheaper flight is more expensive than a flight from your local airport, perhaps you should just fly out of your local airport. If it is cheaper and you have the time, it can be a good way to save money.If you live in Toronto, for example, you might be able to find a cheaper flight to an American destination by searching for flights that leave from Buffalo.
 Consider whether your itinerary would allow you to fly into a different city and whether this option would be cheaper. You can sometimes find cheaper flights to alternate cities that are still close enough to your final destination.See if the savings are significant enough to warrant additional ground transportation to your final destination.


If you have a friend in a city that is cheaper to fly to and close enough to your final destination, you could fly there first and then make your way to your final destination.
 If your holiday itinerary allows for it, you could fly on the actual holiday. Typically, people avoid flying on Thanksgiving or Christmas Day. As a result, flights on these days tend to be cheaper. If your family plans allow for it, you may as well fly on the holiday itself and save a little money.