 Your parents will need to speak to the school administration to explain your condition. The school should work with you to help you in the classroom. You may need a note from your doctor to confirm your condition, so plan ahead. You might have to remind the school that under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, they are required to accommodate your needs so that you can do your best.You may also need to speak with the school nurse and arrange to go to the nurse's office if you need to take medication during the day.;
, While your school may inform your teacher of your needs, there is a chance that your teacher will be unfamiliar with your condition. Your parents may need to have a separate conference during which they discuss your condition with your teacher. This conference can also ease any difficulties you may be having with your teacher.Having specific details and being able to name your medications can be helpful. The more information you can give, the more people are likely to assist you. "Dr. Smith has diagnosed me as having polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and has prescribed this list of medications," sounds better than, "Oh yeah, I've got arthritis."

, If you have problems in your hands, you may find it difficult to take notes during class. Instead of forcing yourself to painfully write things down, you can ask for accommodation.You can:


See if the school will provide you an aide in class.
Ask if you can borrow notes from another student.
Get permission to record your teacher's lectures.
 Explain to your teachers that your condition may worsen unless you are allowed to stretch.Ask them for breaks throughout class for this purpose. Perhaps they will let you stretch for the first or last five minutes of class, or maybe they will let you stand up from your chair halfway through.
 Your arthritis may cause you to walk slowly through the hallways. Instead of pushing your body and potentially injuring yourself, you should inform your teacher that you need extra time between classes. They may let you leave a few minutes early, or they may excuse you if you arrive late.
 Explain your condition to your friends, and ask them if they would be willing to help you with small tasks throughout the day. Let them know that these won’t be significant or take up much time. If they agree, inform your teacher that they are assisting you, and your teacher may forgive them if they come to class late with you. You might ask:


“Can you help me carry my books between classes? When my hands get stiff, I tend to drop them.”
“Do you mind if I borrow your notes? With my arthritis, I can’t write fast enough to keep up.”
“Can we talk sometime? I’ve been feeling down lately, and I need to speak to someone I trust.”, When people ask you in the halls why you walk so slowly, just say, "My joints have matured early," or use another witty response. If they continue to ask questions, try to answer them the best you can. Students may not be trying to be rude, and this is a good time to teach your peers about your condition.


You can say, "I have juvenile idiopathic arthritis. It's a disease in which my immune system attacks my joints by accident. It can be pretty painful sometimes, but I'm managing it."

