 Like all songs, they all are about one or more specific topics. So start brainstorming some good topics and writing them down to view which one(s) you feel most strong about. It is possible to write using more than one topic but for now, we'll just stick to one to stay away from confusion. Some goods examples are: Winnie The Pooh, Star Wars, gross things, your weaknesses, and whatever else you can come up with that you would like to make fun of. Remember, this is a "CHEESY" rap song. You want it to be funny and humorous. So try to make fun of the topic you write about.
 Okay, since you've got your topic, now we're going to start the writing process. Based on your topic, you need a title for your song. Why are you writing about that topic? What are some characteristics about it? Also try to make it as funny as possible. Try your best, it doesn't have to be perfect.
 After you've come up with a title, now for the lines of the song. Try to think of the topic's weaknesses and what makes it funny. try to think of things out of the ordinary to spice things up. For example, if the topic was Winnie The Pooh, you could consider writing about him in another life style. Wearing baggy jeans, Air Force Ones, bling, and making it come from HIS point of view, talking about his life being gangsta. This is just an example.
 When writing lines in the rap song, make sure you structure it properly to when it comes time for you to test it out and rap it, the words flow nicely. Kind of to a specific beat. Here's a bad example:


Blah blah blah blah
Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
Blah Blah
Blah Blah Blah!
See how the words don't add up? If somebody were to rap this song to a beat, it would be not only confusing, but the song wouldn't sound nice or flow steadily. Keep this in mind because it's VERY important.
 After you've written your song successfully, it's time for you to rap it. Depending on what your topic is, try not to rap aggressively and obnoxiously. Try not to sound nervous either. Rapping takes practice so it would be a good idea to go over the song a few times by yourself before you perform it in front of somebody. That way, you don't embarrass yourself and mess up. Use a calm confident voice so the audience won't get bored of you rampaging around flinging your arms and yelling. Also, try not to sound like a robot. Use expression in your voice when rapping. When you listen to your favorite rapper, he uses expression in certain words. It makes the whole song sound a lot better than just sticking to one voice.
 Lastly have fun! And remember, this song is meant to be funny and cheesy. You can also use these steps to write about a serious rap song too.

