 Choose a sweater with a wide, ribbed hem and an interesting pattern or cable-knit. Colors that work best include: white, ivory, red, and dark green.


The ribbed hem will eventually make the cuff.;
, You can use kraft paper, wrapping paper, or even a paper bag for this.If you are having trouble getting the shape right, trace a Christmas stocking that you already own, or find a template online.
 Align the top edge of your pattern just above the hem, where the sweater starts. This way, then you fold the hem down to make the cuff, the stocking won't be too short.
 If your sweater is dark-colored, use chalk. Trace right along the outside edges of the pattern, without adding seam allowances. When you are done, set the pattern aside.
 Pin the sweater together, starting just below the hem. Sew it together using a long stitch or a stretch stitch and a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.Do not sew the hem part of the sweater just yet. This way, when you fold the cuff down, you don't see the seams.


Remove the pins as you sew.
If the material is fraying, go back, and sew along the edges (excluding the cuff) with a zigzag stitch.
 Cut the slits just above the start and end of your sewing, where the sweater ends and the hem starts. This will allow you to flip the cuff's seams out and sew them.
 If you need to, use your hands to push the sweater out from the inside, and reshape it. When you are done, your sweater should look like a stocking, with the cuff part un-sewn. Don't worry, you will fix that in a moment.
 Keeping the stocking turned right-side-out, pin the side edges of the cuff so that they are on the outside. Sew along them using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. It may look weird now, but once you fold the cuff down, you won't see the seams.


If the material is fraying a lot, go back, and zigzag stitch over the raw edges.
 This will hide the raw edges and the seams. If you need to, use a few drops of glue to keep the cuff down.
 How long you cut your ribbon or yarn depends on the size of your stocking. Bigger stockings will look better with bigger loops, and smaller stockings will look better with smaller ones. Be sure to use a color that matches your stocking!


If your sweater's collar is narrow enough, you can use that instead.
 If you are using a sweater collar, sew the ends of the collar together.
 Attach it about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) below the top edge of the stocking.


Don't have a needle and thread, or don't know how to sew? Use hot glue or fabric glue instead.
 Crochet a long chain using yarn in a matching or contrasting color. Tie it around the hanging loop of your stocking using a slipknot. Make two pompoms out of yarn, then glue them to each end of the cord.


Don't know how to crochet? Braid three pieces of yarn together instead.
Don't know how to make pompoms? Use store-bought ones instead.
Weave the cord around the bottom edge of the cuff instead for a different look.

