 One of the biggest mistakes you can make when shaving your pubic area, is to use a dull blade. Use a razor that is sharp enough to cut the hair without having to go over it again and again.


Depending on how often you shave, you may need to replace your blade every month or so. Some people switch out blades after five uses, but determine what works best for you.
Use a single-blade razor. This will actually be more effective in cutting the hair, so long as it’s sharp.Remember to shave in the same direction that the hair is growing. Otherwise hairs could actually get stuck as they are growing back, thus causing ingrown hairs.
While electric razors may be suitable for most parts of your body, refrain from using one on your pubic area.;
, Use a shaving cream that is designed for sensitive areas. As with any product you apply to your skin, test a little bit of it on another part of your body before using it on your pubic area.


Don’t skip the shaving cream. Just try to avoid ones that are scented, as this could irritate your skin.
Men may want to consider using women’s shaving cream for the pubic region, as many of the shaving creams marketed to men contain a perfume or scent., Always make sure to rinse your blade off after every stroke. This will help to prevent buildup, which puts you at risk for ingrown hairs.


As more hair and skin builds up in your blade, you are at a greater risk for cutting yourself or for having to go over the area multiple times.
 After shaving the area, rinse it with warm water. Next, you’ll want to apply a moisturizer, but don’t need to overdo it. Simply apply a very fine layer to the skin.


An alternative to moisturizer is aloe vera or baby oil. However, men should remember to never use aftershave. It would be extremely painful!Fragrance free is always the way to go. Look for moisturizer that specifically targets sensitive skin as well.
 Shaving too often is a sure way to develop ingrown hairs. If you don’t allow your skin time to heal and give the hair time to grow, you will risk trapping hair under the skin.


Wait until the hair has grown back. Never go over stubble or an ingrown hair with the razor. This will just cause further irritation.

