 If you want to perform a standing balance test, you must first get the right equipment and assistance to perform this test. Once you have everything ready, it'll be easy to measure your results.One of the main components of this test, is timing how long you can balance for. Have a watch or stop clock ready.
Since many things can throw off your balance, its not recommended to time yourself. Ask a friend or family member to help you time your balance when you're performing the test.
You can choose to either wear tennis shoes or sneakers for this test. If you want, you may also choose to do this test barefoot.
Find an area to do this test where the floor is flat and even. In addition, this test should be completed where there are supports to hold on to or catch you if balance is lost. A table, sturdy chair, bars or other people are great options.;
, Once you have everything set up begin your balance test. To start, stand evenly with your feet flat on the ground and your hands on your hips. Both of your eyes should be open.


Choose whichever leg you want to start with. Lift your leg off the ground. You can hold your leg anywhere or anyhow, but do not rest the lifted leg on the standing leg. Hold this position as long as you can. You may find that your balance is better on one specific leg.
 To get an accurate result, you must stop timing once balance is lost.Inform the person helping you that balance is lost once you:


Move your arms from their current position in an attempt to maintain balance.
Move the raised foot in order to re-balance yourself.
Move the standing leg or weight-bearing foot in an attempt to maintain balance.
Open your eyes (if eyes were closed).
Move your torso or upper body in the attempt to stay balanced.
Have successfully completed the test for at least 45 seconds.
 To help you get an accurate result, it's best to test your balance 3 times. The average of your results are the most accurate and reliable.


Have your friend or family member assist you with 3 separate tests. Each test should be performed identically.If you need to take a break between tests, that's OK. But they should all be done within a few minutes of each other.
To get your average result, add up your 3 times. Then, take that total and divide by 3 to get your result.
 Once you've completed the standing balance test and have taken the average of your results, you can evaluate your balancing ability.In general, if you're over the age of 80, you should be able to balance for about 7 seconds.
If you're aged 70-79 years old, you should be able to balance for about 11-18 seconds.
If you're between 60-70 years old, you should be able to balance for 26-28 seconds.
If you're between the ages of 50-60 years old, you should be able to balance for about 36-38 seconds.
Anybody younger than 50 years old should be able to balance for at least 40 seconds.
If you stayed balanced for only 5-10 seconds, this indicates that you are at an increased risk for balance impairment. If you could not stay balanced for 5 seconds, this indicates you're at serious risk for fall injuries.
 In addition to performing the standing balance test in the conventional way, there is a slight modification you can make. Closing your eyes will give you more insight into where you get your balance from.


Perform the test the same way. The only difference here is that your eyes will be closed.
Many people rely heavily upon their vision to help them balance. When they perform this test with their eyes closed and cannot balance, this indicates they're at risk for falls or injuries at night or when vision is impaired.To modify the standing balance test, begin with the same equipment and the assistance from a friend or family member. However, your friend should stand close to you as you perform this test. If you were to lose your balance with your eyes closed, someone should be there to help you regain balance and prevent a fall.
Close your eyes at the same time you begin to lift your leg off the ground. Once the test is over you can open your eyes (if they haven't opened already to help you re-gain balance).
 Another method to test your balance is the tandem stance test. This particular test measures your base of support and is helpful for those who cannot perform the standing balance test well.You should wear tennis shoes or shoes with no heels for this test. Have someone time you during this test.
Stand straight to start. Then slowly bring the heel of your right foot to rest immediately in front of the toes of your left foot. Your right foot should remained flexed with toes pointing upwards.
Keep your arms either by your sides or rest your hands on your hips. Maintain this position for as long as you can or for at least 30 seconds.
If you cannot maintain your balance for at least 10 seconds during the tandem stance test, you're at increased risk for a fall injury.
 The alternative step test is another common method used by physical therapists to measure your ability to balance. In particular, this test measures lateral stability.To start this test, take off your shoes and socks - it should be performed barefoot. Again, ask someone to time you and to act as a support in case you lose your balance during this test.
Use the first step of a stair case or an aerobic step. Step up one foot and plant the entire foot firmly on the step.
As quickly and safely as you can, bring that foot down and lift the alternate foot up to the stair. Repeat by alternating between both feet as fast as you can.
To measure, track the time it takes for you to complete 8 steps between the right and left foot.
If it takes you more than 10 seconds to complete this task, you're at increased risk for falls.
 Another way to measure balance is by how fast and how easily you can get in and out of the sitting position. This movement can throw off the balance for those with balance issues.To start this test, find a sturdy backed chair. Having someone with a stop watch will be helpful so they can time how long it takes you to complete this test.
Whenever you're ready, start the clock and stand up and sit down 5 times as fast as you can.
You need to stand up fully and sit down completely (that means your buttocks comes into full contact with the chair).
If this test takes you longer than 13 seconds to complete, this indicates that you're at high risk for falling.
 If you've measured your balance and are noticing you have some difficulty, consider consulting with your physician. He will be able to guide you on your next steps.


Many people have difficulty balancing. It could be from a trauma, medical condition or age. However, if you're noticing a significant decline in balance or sudden loss of balance, call your doctor immediately.
Talk to him about when you noticed your difficulty and if you're having any other corresponding symptoms (like dizziness or light headedness).
Your physician may recommend that you go to physical therapy regularly to help strengthen your legs and core in addition to improving your balance.
 One way to increase and improve your balance is by practicing to walk heel to toe. This helps improve your coordination and balance as you walk.To start this exercise, put on a pair of sneakers or tennis shoes. Find a flat area to walk. If you need to, have someone walk next you to for support in case you lose your balance.
To start, put your right heel immediately in front of your left toes. Try not to look down at your feet. Choose a spot in front of you to focus on.
Take a step and then bring your left heel immediately in front of your right toes. Take another step and continue to alternate your feet in this fashion - aligning your feet heel to toe.
Do this exercise as long as you can and slowly work to build up more time as you improve.
 Some strength training exercises are also beneficial to help you improve balance. Backwards leg raises help strengthen your buttocks and hamstrings.To start, stand behind a sturdy backed chair and hold the back with your hands. You will slightly lean on the chair for support.
Your feet should start about shoulder width apart. Lift your right leg behind you, keeping your foot flexed.
Raise your leg without bending your knee or leaning forward towards the chair in front of you. Raise your leg until it's about a 45 degree angle from your body.
Hold the raised leg behind you for about 1-2 seconds. Then slowly lower back down to the floor. Repeat with the other leg. Do 10-15 times with each leg.
 Another important muscle group in your legs are the sides of your legs. These muscles help keep your body up right. This particular exercise helps build stability and balance.Like backwards leg raises, start side leg raises by holding onto the back of a sturdy chair. You should also be wearing tennis shoes for this exercise.
Slowly lift your right leg out away towards your body. Try not to bend your right leg or lean over to the left side.
Hold your leg out at about a 45 degree angle from your body. Keep holding this position for 1-2 seconds. Repeat 10-15 times on each side.
 Even if you had difficulty performing the standing balance test, you can modify this test and use it as an exercise to help improve your balance.To start this exercise, stand behind a sturdy backed chair. Use only one hand to hold onto the chair - not both.
Lift up one leg and keep it in the air in a comfortable position. Do not rest it on the weight-bearing leg. The hand not holding onto the chair should rest on your hip.
Try to hold this position for at least 10 seconds. Then, repeat with the other leg. Work up so you're able to do 10-15 times with each leg.

