 LilyPad supports keyboard, mouse, Xbox 360, and 3rd party controllers for button inputs., Go to http://pcsx2.net/download.html and choose the installer for your platform. Upon launching the program you will be greeted with the first time setup.
 By default your system language is chosen. Press “Next” to proceed to the plugin configuration.
 PAD is the second menu in the list of plugins.
 This is located to the right of the PAD menu and will open a list of options for setting up the LilyPad plugin.
 This tab is located in the upper left part of the window and will take you to the button configuration page for the connected device. On the right, there will be a clickable button to set a binding for each button on a PS2 controller.
 For example, to change which button will be used to hit the “Triangle” button a PS2 controller, click “Triangle”

, The input will appear on the list of saved bindings to the left.
 Any keys that remain unbound will not function.
 The sensitivity slider is located in the “Configure Binding” section of the window. Moving the slider to the left will decrease sensitivity, to the right will increase.


Sensitivity can be adjusted for all buttons but it traditionally most effective on trigger or analog stick movements, where partial button presses will register.
Similarly, you can use the “Dead Zone” slider to set a window where partially pressing the button will register no input.
 Select the “Turbo” checkbox in the “Configure Binding” section of the window to enable turbo.


Turbo automates the rapid pressing of a button when it is held down. This is a good setting for games where buttons must be tapped repeatedly, but will interfere in situations where the button must be held down consistently.
 Select a binding from the list on the left and click this button below to remove that specific binding.


You can also click “Clear All” to remove every binding. Keep in mind, this will remove ALL bindings that are set for this device, not just reset to the default.
 Select “Pad 2” and repeat the previous steps as necessary in order to play multiplayer games.
 If you are having trouble, you click the “General” tab on the “Configure” page and try different APIs for whatever input type you are using. Alternative inputs may function better with certain input devices.API options are separated by input device: Keyboard, Mouse, and Game Device (controller).
 Either of these buttons will save your settings. “OK” will also close the window.

