 You might begin by focusing explicitly on one character. Choose one of the people that your story focuses on, namely someone who will fall into or out of love, or will dance anywhere in between. It may sound predictable, but readers are looking for someone to love too – and they’ll likely fall for whomever you introduce first.Prepare the reader to care for a character throughout the story, and to invest their own emotions in that character’s achievement of happiness and contentment.
For instance, introduce a character by showing them experience some sort of significant personal revelation about themselves or another character in the story.
Equally reliable; introduce a character as they’re enduring an undeserved hardship.
 This may seem a bit forward, but it doesn’t necessarily have to be romance at first sight. However the introduction goes, provide the reader with the inclination that this is a relationship to take note of, even if you also include a bit of misdirection to imply some complicating factors.


For example: As Sarah walked down the gangplank, a man with a mane like liquid honey approached. He introduced himself, “It is absolutely thrilling to meet you. The excitement I have derived in reading your letters has prevented me from allowing any other to be the first to greet you. My name is…” He trailed off, rather stunned by the beauty of a woman he had imagined ten thousand times, but whose actual appearance surpassed his most generous fantasies. She looked at him for a moment and replied, “Fetch me a horse.”

, In fact, it may be especially effective to give your lovers a few hurdles to overcome in order to achieve each other’s love. This appeals to several different components of intrigue, as it provides a struggle to invest in both emotionally and in terms of plot suspense.


For instance, “The man turned to beckon a servant, but forgot he’d been holding the end of the rope wound round a pole, and fastened to the gangplank. He let the rope fall to the ground. Before anyone noticed, a gust of wind pulled the boat from the dock, and the rope unwound with incomprehensible speed, dropping gangplank, plumage, and a visibly displeased Lady Sarah into the bay.”

