 It is nearly impossible to have purple eyes (though certain lighting and makeup tricks can make blue eyes look more purple) so get contacts. This is easiest if you already have vision problems and need corrective lenses, but you can also order non-prescription contacts from specialty shops and online stores.;
, Most versions of the Alexandria's Genesis story do not say what color the hair should be but some say that dark (black or brown) hair is most common. If you want to, you can dye your hair a darker color. You should also take excellent care of it so it looks beautiful. Frizzy black hair that looks like it hasn't been brushed is a no no. Use good shampoo and conditioner, brush your hair with the right kind of comb or brush for your hair type, and maintain your hair to avoid the appearance of split ends.
 First, take very good care of your skin to reduce acne. Wash, exfoliate, and moisturize daily. Then you can use lemon juice or a mild bleach intended for use on the face to lighten your skin. You can also buy creams at a local drug store which are intended to lighten your skin.


You can also get some lotion or body spray with a little very fine glitter (or "shimmer") in it to give your skin the sparkle look described for those with Alexandria's Genesis.
 One of the "symptoms" of Alexandria's Genesis is that people who have it cannot become overweight. Eat healthy and exercise to keep your own weight down. A balanced diet (rich in vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein, and low in fats and sugar) can help a lot, plus it keeps you actually healthy and feeling great!

, Those with Alexandria's Genesis are supposed to be free of hair everywhere except for their head. Reduce the appearance of shaving by using a salt or sugar scrub before, after, and periodically in between shaving sessions. You can also wax if you prefer, although this is painful. Use lotions which heal the skin, like Bag Balm, to keep it healthy as shaving is very harsh on your skin.
 Try to make your menstrual cycle less noticeable by being discreet when you need to change a pad or tampon. You can also actually get rid of your menstrual cycle by getting a hormonal IUD or taking birth control pills and skipping the placebos.
 Being healthy in general strengthens your immune system. Get your shots and stay germ free so you don't ever get sick. Eat lots of fruit or take supplements to get your vitamin C, get vitamin D to help your body absorb the C, use zinc drops if you feel a cold coming on, and use hand sanitizer when you're out in public to avoid contracting illnesses.
 Stay healthy, safe, in shape, get checkups, treat illnesses, anything to make you live longer. Try to live past 100. If in the future they come up with a miracle pill that extends your life and is proven to work, take it!

, You can also lie about your age, making it seem as if you're much older than you really are. Learn about history and culture from the recent years past and talk about it as if you were there. You can listen to music, learn about fashion...even buy antiques which you can swear you bought new!

, Although you can't really not produce waste, just don't do it in public. Only in the privacy of your home may you fart, poop, or pee. Of course, if you really need to go, don't strain yourself. Just excuse yourself to "touch up your lipstick" or something else that requires a bathroom.
 Now, the legend explains that Alexandria's Genesis began with a light shining in the sky over Egypt a thousand years ago. In reality, Alexandria's Genesis was created when a young woman named Cameron Miquelon wrote a fanfiction (fan-written story for an existing media) for a 1990s MTV television show called "Daria".
 The symptoms include:


White skin that doesn't tan or burn
Purple eyes
Sometimes dark hair, but certainly no hair anywhere but the head
No menstruation but preserved fertility
Lifespans over 150 years and immunity from disease
No weight gain
No digestive waste

, Supposedly Alexandria's Genesis is a genetic mutation. However, the genes which affect these various parts of the body are not located in the same area. Only a number of mutations could result in so many symptoms, some of which are not even possible. Though it is possible to be fertile without menstruation (as some animals completely re-absorb their uterine lining instead), no lifetime over 150 years has ever been recorded and digestive waste would always be produced.


As for reports that people, such as Elizabeth Taylor, have been born with purple eyes, this is not true. There are many photographs and films that show Elizabeth's eyes to be blue. It is possible to have purple eyes in the case of incomplete albinism, but it is extremely rare.
 There are many ways to lighten your skin. You aren't limited to bleaching if you want to take a more natural, safe approach.
 Even if it is just to pretend to have this condition, getting in better shape is a great life choice. However, it's not totally intuitive. You can learn how to exercise properly to protect your body and achieve the results you want, however.
 Shaving is more complex than it seems. If you've never really shaved before, especially in really delicate areas, it may be a good idea to get some help.

