 Although these two positions are similar in some ways, they differ from each other considerably. While the duties and prerequisites for a medical examiner may be more consistent from one locality to the next, those of a coroner vary a great deal.Know the difference between the two to decide which position adheres the most to your ambition.


Medical examiners are typically appointed. To be appointed, you need to be a licensed physician with a specialization in forensic pathology. Your primary purpose would be performing autopsies when needed and disclosing your conclusions to law enforcement.
Coroners may be elected or appointed.Depending on local laws, you may need to have the same qualifications and perform the same duties as a medical examiner. Or you may serve as more of an administrative head who contracts outside help, in which case the qualifications for your office may require less medical training., For any particular place where you wish to find employment, find out what prerequisites are demanded by the state, county, and municipality. Know what higher education, previous experience, and specialized training is required for that particular office.Determine whether you will have to run for office or simply apply for the job.Find out if your state even offers coroner positions.States mandating that you must be a physician: Kansas; Louisiana; Minnesota; Ohio.

States demanding that you receive specialized training: Alabama; Colorado; Georgia; Idaho; Illinois; Indiana; Mississippi; Montana; Nebraska; Pennsylvania; South Carolina; South Dakota; Tennessee; West Virginia; Wyoming

States without coroner offices: Alaska; Arizona; Connecticut; Delaware; District of Columbia; Florida; Iowa; Maine; Maryland; Massachusetts; Michigan; New Hampshire; New Jersey; New Mexico; Oklahoma; Oregon; Rhode Island; Utah; Vermont; Virginia

, If you are serious about pursuing death investigation as a lifelong career, improve your chances of finding well-paid employment by becoming a medical examiner. Whether a chief coroner position is filled by appointment or election, set yourself apart from other candidates with an impressive resume that is most relevant to the job in question. Increase your mobility with the necessary prerequisites to find employment elsewhere should you fail to be hired for a specific office.

