 Using your student ID, you can register online at footballtickets.nd.edu/students to apply for season tickets. Students from the University of Notre Dame, Holy Cross College and Saint Mary's College are guaranteed a ticket to each home game.


Approximately 11,000 tickets are allocated for current students. The tickets are sold at a 50 percent discount. Students can also enter a lottery using their ID for away game tickets. They should follow the same website to inquire about away game tickets.;
, You must donate to the Annual fund, an annual giving society or another University fund in the previous year in order to be eligible for the following season's lottery.


Create an account at the NDU Alumni Association website, mynotredame.nd.edu, if you have not already. This will give you access to making donations and applying for the lottery.
Approximately 30,000 tickets are allotted for the alumni ticket lottery. You will be given access to a form that allows you to choose the games you would like to attend and pre-pay for them. If you are not awarded tickets, you will receive a refund. The chances of receiving tickets depend upon the popularity of the game. In 2005, 37 percent of those who entered the lottery for a popular game received tickets.
 You will have higher chances of receiving tickets in this lottery than the standard alumni lottery. Both alumni and the public are eligible to be put in the Special Contributor lottery if they have donated an adequate amount.
 Go to the Notre Dame website, at UND.com and look for the link to the "Football Season Ticket Lottery Wait List," to enter. You must pay an application fee of $40.


Approximately 16,000 tickets are put toward season ticket holders. Season ticket holders can request up to 6 tickets per game. The price for season tickets varies from $1,200 to $2,000 depending upon the location of the seats.
 All student, alumni, opposing team and contributor tickets are sold before the general public is given a chance to buy. It is recommended that you call in late July and/or the Monday before a home football game for your best chances.
 Sites like StubHub and TicketMaster provide guarantees and refund possibilities for their tickets. Make sure you trust the site and it gets good reviews before buying a re-sold Notre Dame football ticket.


Online brokers buy their tickets from individual ticket holders. These sites may list tickets for sale that they have not yet acquired. Beware there is some risk that they may not have the ticket after all, so make sure they have a guaranteed refund policy.
