 This is one of the easiest and best ways that you can show loved ones that you care about them and that they’re a priority to you.Make the time to check in with your family and friends and find out what’s going on in their lives. You should also make time to be there for them on those occasions that they need special support.


Ask your loved ones how they are doing and really listen to their answer. Ask questions about what they say in response to let them know you’re listening.
Remove distractions and try to limit interruptions when you are talking with loved ones. Turn off your electronic devices and give the person your undivided attention.
When you can, be willing to stop doing something else to listen to a loved one for a minute or two. For example, if your friend calls and he’s upset because his dog is lost, you could stop working on your paper for a moment and listen to him.
 Even if you can’t attend every event that they have, you can show loved ones that they’re a priority and that you care by supporting them in other ways. Take the time to find out how you can encourage, promote, and support your family and friends in the things that they’re doing.


For example, you might not be able to attend your cousin’s tap dancing concert, but you can have flowers delivered backstage.
Or, for instance, if you can’t help your friend volunteer at the animal shelter, you can pass out fliers at your job letting people know about shelter opportunities.
 Given the number of social networking apps and the ease with which you can post written text, pictures, audio, video, and more, keeping in touch with loved ones is not as difficult as it used to be.Make the most of technology and find creative ways to let your friends and family know what’s going on in your life and find out what’s happening in theirs.


You can send a ‘good morning’ or ‘good night’ text or you can text them in the middle of the day just to let the person know you are thinking of them.
While you are responding to your email messages, send one or two off to loved ones as a way to keep in touch.
Send a video or audio message expressing how grateful you are to have them in your life.
Post a picture of you and your loved ones and tag them in it on social media. This is a great way to share your life and experiences with people that may not live close enough to visit regularly.
 Although it might be considered ‘old-fashioned’, most people would agree that finding an unexpected hand-written note from someone you care about gives you a good feeling. You can give this good feeling to your loved ones by writing a note, letter, or card and giving it to them. This is a simple, but powerful way to let them know they’re a priority to you.


For instance, you could buy your grandfather a card and send it to him via snail mail just to let him know he’s important to you.
Or, for example, if you make your child’s lunch for school, you could put a small “I love you” note in their lunchbox.
Be creative and post a note for your loved one in a public place. For example, if you know your partner always checks the message board in the cafeteria, put a sweet note with their name on it on the board.

