 Hold your bow up and keep your grip on it loose so you don't hurt your wrist. Keep a slight bend in your elbow. This is not only more comfortable, it keeps you from twanging your arm with the string as the arrow releases.
 You want to pull the bow back in a solid, fluid motion, keeping your bow arm straight on target the whole time. Your arm, extended in front of you, is a naturally straight line that you can use to guide your motion smoothly. For added drawing power, think about rotating your shoulder backward as you pull back, keeping the rest of the body in place. This activates your back muscles for added control. If you need a little extra power, you can slightly push the bow forward as you draw as well, though this should be avoided if possible.








Your hips, bow arm, and feet should all be still while drawing.
Avoid the temptation to move the bow around as you draw back. While moving forward slightly is common, don't point the bow up or down as you draw back.
Once you have an arrow on the bow, treat it like a loaded gun. It only points at your target.
 The anchor point is a personal spot every archer draws the bow back to. It can be anywhere, such as your thumb touching your ear, or your knuckles touching your cheek. The point is that you have a regular, common spot that you hit every single time when drawing the bow back.









Play with your anchor point to find what is comfortable at first. However, once you find one you want to pull back to this point every single time. Keeping your anchor point regular lets you find and fix issues if you start missing the target.
 Try to put your nose against the string, as this will act as a second anchor and increases accuracy. It is not essential but is quite useful. That said, do not bend your neck to force your nose onto the string, as this will affect accuracy and can be quite uncomfortable.
 If you've been keeping your body still and relaxed throughout the motion, this should require only brief adjustments. If you moved the bow around a lot, you'll likely have to re-aim completely. Remember that your first pin is set for a target 20 yards away, and every pin beneath this is for further distances.









Any aiming should be done with small motions, rotating from the hips.
 Don't pull the release trigger as if you were a movie star with a gun. Pulling hard on the trigger naturally moves the bow slightly hurting accuracy. Instead, let your finger smoothly pull back the trigger. You should almost be surprised by the release. Many archers keep moving their hands back smoothly even after the trigger is released to ensure the motion remains smooth.








Be ready for a somewhat surprising release of force that can cause you to suddenly jerk. Prepare to keep your head down and body still.
If you don't use a mechanical release, simply let go of your fingers while pulling back, getting them out of the way as you release.

