 Select the raindrop looking icon from the toolbar, this is the blur tool.


At the top of your screen will see options for brush size, and strength of your stroke. You can adjust these to your liking. For a portrait style photo with a fair amount of background you can select a larger brush size.
Hold down your mouse and move it over the background of your photo to blur it.
Keep in mind that this technique does not create true depth - it blurs everything in the background uniformly rather than independently based on distance from the lens. An image blurred "in camera" collects visual information from a scene that a Photoshop blurred image can never obtain because the data is not there in a Photoshop file. The "in camera" image is a much truer and organic image/record.
 For this option you’ll want to create a duplicate layer going to Layers > Duplicate layers. With your duplicate layer, click Filters > Blur > Gaussian Blur.


Now your entire image will be blurred out. But because you have the original image as a layer under this one, you can use the erase tool to erase the blur over the part of your photo you want in focus.
Once you have done that, go to Layer > Flatten Image. This will flatten the two layers into one, with your blurred background.
 This will allow you to use an iris blur to keep your subject in focus while blurring the background.In your Layers panel right-click on your background layer, the image, and select “Convert to Smart Object”.
From your top menu click Filter > Blur Gallery > Iris Blur. Now drag your iris over your subject. You can adjust the size and shape of the iris by clicking and dragging on the different boxes you see. You can also hold shift while you drag to convert the rectangular iris into a circle, adjusting it to the proper size.
 Find the Quick Selection tool in your toolbar, it looks like a paintbrush with a dashed oval shape next to it.


Hold and drag it around your subject that you want to remain in focus. This tool uses distinctive edges to select your image, and is much easier to use if you were able to blur your background on your camera even slightly when taking your photo.
Use the Refine Edge button in the “Options” bar to further refine your selection to make sure everything you want is selected.From your top bar menu go to Select > Inverse. Now everything that is not your subject will be selected. From here you want to go to Filter > Gaussian Blur. Simply adjust the Radius slider to your preferred blur setting and click “OK”.
 This filter evaluates the range of pixels in the background and foreground, and gives you more control over the image. The filter is also adjustable which enables the photographer to manipulate the photo even more.

