 Most people will need to use a 12 –14 French catheter. You can find Foley catheters at medical supplies stores, online, or through your doctor.Pediatric patients and adult males with congenitally small urethras will not tolerate catheters this large. They may need a 10 fr or smaller.
If you have an obstruction, it's best to call a professional. You will be using a three-way irrigation large catheter to deal with the obstruction, and it's important to know how to insert it without pushing against the obstruction, which is difficult for someone who isn't properly trained. This process isn't recommended for self-catheterization.
Some catheters come in a kit, with the catheter and antiseptic solution that you can pour on the catheter to sterilize it. You should follow the procedures on the kit to make sure the catheter is sterile before you use it. Check the expiration date of kits when they arrive to make sure they are still useable.
While using your catheter will be difficult at first, it will get easier and more routine over time.
If you have any questions, you can consult a nurse who is trained to deal with incontinence.;
, Most catheters are single use because they need to be sterile. They will come in individual packages, making it easy for you to use them and then throw them away.

Some catheters can be cleaned with soap and water. Discuss this with your doctor before trying to wash your catheters.
 You will need the lubricating jelly to make the top of the catheter slick. This will make it easier to insert the catheter into your penis.The lubricant for catheters should be sterile. It should not come in a multi-dose packaging (such as a jar), as once opened it must be thrown away not used again in the future. Use single-dose packets only.


Make sure the lubricating jelly is water-based, as this will less irritating to your urinary tract.
 You will need a container or a urine bag ready to collect the urine once it comes out of the catheter. You can use a small, deep plastic container or a bag designed to collect urine.
 You will also need a thick bath towel to place underneath you to catch any urine or water during the insertion. If you have access to a waterproof pad that you can sit on, this will work as well., Always use medical gloves whether this is an in-and-out cath or an indwelling catheter. Your hands must be clean and protected during the the insertion process. You can find medical gloves at a medical supply store or online.Urinary retention already places individuals at risk for UTI and then shoving a non sterile instrument up the urethra practically ensures a UTI will occur. Sterile gloves and technique preferred.
 You should start by washing your hands well with warm water and soap. Then put on your gloves before you unwrap the catheter.Make sure your hands are clean and the area around you is clean before you take out the catheter from the package. You may also choose an area in your home that is open and free of obstructions, like the floor of your bathroom. Make sure the floor is clean.
It is important to have clean hands before you put your gloves on, as handling the gloves with dirty hands will result in unsterile gloves.
 You will need to sit down with your legs bent. Place the bath towel or the waterproof pad underneath your penis once you are seated. You should have easy access to your penis with your hands.You may also decide to stand in front of the toilet if it is comfortable for you to reach down and hold your penis. You could then point the end of the catheter into the toilet so it drains into the toilet directly.
 Wash your penis with warm water, soap, and a washcloth. Clean the area in circular motions. If you are not circumcised, pull back the foreskin and wash your penis well.Make sure you wash the head of your penis and the urinary meatus, which is the small opening where your urine comes out.
Once you are done, rinse and dry your penis well. Then, place the container you are using to collect the urine next to your thigh so it is easy to access.
 Hold the top section of the catheter and put lubricating jelly on the catheter. You want to cover the first seven to ten inches (18 cm to 25 cm) of the catheter with the jelly. This will make the insertion less uncomfortable., Use your non-dominant hand to hold your penis so it straight out in front of your body. Your penis should be at an angle of 60 to 90 degrees. Hold the catheter in your dominate hand and slowly insert in into the urinary meatus, or the small opening on the top of your penis.Put the catheter around seven to ten inches (18 cm to 25 cm) into your penis using a gentle, pushing motion. Once urine starts to flow through the catheter, you can push the catheter up one inch (2.54 cm) more and keep it in place until you are done urinating.
Make sure the other end of the catheter is positioned in a container or in the toilet so the urine can be collected and disposed of properly.
 Some catheters have a collection bag that you need to inflate with a sterile needle once the catheter has been inserted. You should use a sterile syringe to inflate the collection bag with 10 ml of sterile water. The volume of water needed to fill the bag may vary depending on the size of the catheter you are using so you should always check the packaging on the catheter for the exact volume.You should then attach the collection bag to the catheter so it can hold the urine as you urinate. The inflated balloon should rest on the urethral opening of your bladder so the urine can be collected properly.
 You should always remove the catheter as soon as you are done urinating, as leaving the catheter in can cause urinary tract issues. To remove the catheter, pinch the top closed with your dominant hand and slowly pull out the catheter. Keep the end of the catheter facing upward so no urine drips or dribbles out.If there is a collection bag, you should remove the bag and dispose of it properly in the garbage.
You can then pull your foreskin down if you are not circumcised to protect your penis.
Remove and throw away your medical gloves. Wash your hands well.
 If the catheter is reusable according to the manufacturer's instructions, you should wash it with soap and warm water after every use. You should also sterilize it in a pan of boiling water for 20 minutes to prevent infection and let it dry on a paper towel. Store the catheter in a clean plastic bag.If the catheter is single-use only, you should throw it away and use a new one. You should also throw away any catheters that appear torn, hardened, or cracked.
Depending on your doctor’s recommendations, you may need to use the catheter at least four times a day to ensure you are urinating regularly.
 You may find that no urine comes out of the catheter when you insert it. You can try rotating the catheter slowly to remove any blockage. You may also try pushing it one inch further into your penis or pull it back slightly.You should also make sure the catheter opening is not blocked by the lubricant or mucus. You may need to remove it to determine this.
If no urine comes out even after you rotate it, you can try coughing to encourage urine to flow.
 You may find it painful or uncomfortable to insert the catheter, especially when you are trying to push it past your prostate. You may need to put more lubricant on the catheter to make it easier to insert.Take a deep breath in and try to relax as you push the catheter in to make it easier to insert. If it is still difficult, do not force it. You may want to wait an hour and try again, focusing on staying relaxed and calm as you insert it in.
 If you cannot urinate even with the assistance of the catheter, or you are experiencing other urination issues, like blood or mucus in your urine, you should see your doctor.You should also see your doctor if you develop stomach cramps, your urine appears cloudy, smelly, or discolored, or you feel feverish. You may have a urinary issue that needs to be addressed before you can try using the catheter again.
 You can still have sex if you need to use a catheter. If you plan to engage in sexual intercourse, it's a good idea to catheterize beforehand to remove any urine that is present in your bladder. Always remove the catheter before having intercourse. If the urine is strong or offensive, don't have sex until you can get treatment for a possible infection.