 Getting the weight correct is of most importance for the heavier objects - the lighter seasonal type objects usually are very lightweight and won't present weight problems.;
, Purchase monofilament (or fishing) line, a fishing "swivel" and a hook from which the ornament will hang. A sporting goods store or department is a great place for the fishing line and swivel:


Fishing line may be substituted by your choice of string, wire, etc. if desired; the reason fishing line is suggested is due to its transparency and strength. The fishing line is available in different "pound tests" but the values on the spools of line are not very reliable, so it is best to physically pull on the line to determine its ability to support the weight of the ornament. Choose line that will support at least two times the weight of the ornament.






A swivel consists of two small hoops joined together in such a way that they may turn independently of each other.






The hook should be selected on the weight it is expected to support (at least two times the actual weight) and the material into which it will be secured – examples are: wood, concrete, hollow wall, etc. A hardware store (or department) is the best place to choose hooks (and get advice on the suitability to task, as well).
 Secure the hook directly onto the surface over where the ornament will hang,using the supplied fastener for the surface's material.
 Start by cutting the monofilament line to length. Since this line is inexpensive and sold in 100 yard (91.4 m) lots, allow plenty of extra line.


Attach the line to the hook (installed in the previous step) and to the swivel by tying directly to it, or placing a slip knot around it.






Connect the other end of the swivel directly to the ornament (if the type with a close-able clasp) or, connected by an additional length of monofilament line if needed in the same manner as was done between the hook and swivel.
 While the ornament will spin for a long time, eventually friction will cause the ornament to stop spinning. However, if the decoration is located indoors, it may be possible to use a small fan to gently blow air at the ornament to keep it spinning continuously.

