 Stewart is often photographed out and about in a tomboy look, which looks comfortable and cool at the same time. Pair a slightly ripped shirt with skinny jeans and sneakers. You can roll up the jeans once to show off fun printed socks. Tie a long knit sweater around your waist and finish the look at the long sporty coat. This is a good look for a cold day when you want to rock Stewart’s tomboy style.You can also change up the tomboy look by wearing a leather jacket and interesting accessories that have some edge. This could work as a look for a relaxed night out.;
, Bring Stewart’s style into the office by pairing black dress pants with a white or gray collared shirt and high heeled boots or black heels. You can also wear a collared shirt in a plaid print, buttoned up and tucked in to your pants, for a Stewart-like look for the office.You can finish off the office look at a leather jacket and metal accessories like gold or silver earrings and a long necklace.
 Go Stewart for a night out by ditching your party dress for a jumpsuit with a pair of heels and a long necklace. This is a popular look for Stewart, with its mix of comfort and style. You can wear a short jumpsuit with heels or boots or a long jumpsuit with a leather jacket for an extra edge., Stewart usually goes for simple buy edgy jewellery featuring studs or spikes, made with metals like gold and silver. Her necklaces tend to be made of metal, with a simple charm or choker style, in dark colors like black and blue.You can also stock up on accessories that feature metal detailing, like a leather purse with a chain metal handle or a sunglasses with metal arms. Skinny leather belts are also good Stewart-like accessories you can wear as part of a night out look.
 Stewart tends to keep her makeup pretty simple and casual for daytime, especially when paired with her tomboy style. Apply black mascara and light pink lip stain to give your face a natural look that emulates Stewart’s easy going style.Stewart is also known for her pronounced eyebrows, so up your eyebrow game by using eyebrow gel or liner to give your face more depth. You can then be use your eyebrows stand out over your signature Stewart sunglasses.
 Stewart will go dramatic and dark for red carpet events and you can too for a night out on the town. Do a smoky eye with shades of dark purple, black, and silver, and pair it with lipstick in a dark red shade for a dramatic makeup look.

Stewart is also known for her dark eyeliner so make sure you apply black eyeliner on your eyes before you step out for the night. Finish it with black mascara for a classic Stewart look.
 Stewart is known for her tousled hair, a shoulder length cut with a swoop to one side of her face. You can get this look by applying styling gel to your hair while it’s still wet and using a blow dryer to just dry it until it appears tousled, like you just woke up.Stewart’s hair is on the wavy side, so if you have straight hair you can use a curling iron to create loose curls similar to Stewart’s. You should then part and lift the front area of your hair so you have a swoop of hair on one side of your face, just like Stewart’s hair.
 Stewart sometimes wears this hair look for red carpet events or for a casual day out. You can emulate this hairstyle by creating two to three small braids on either side of your head, keeping your hair out of your face and creating a Stewart like look. You can then secure the braids with hair ties or bobby pins and hair spray so the look stays put all day or night.