 There are several different Roku models, and some of them have different connection ports available. The ports on your Roku will determine how you connect it to your TV.


All Roku models have HDMI ports. These look like elongated USB ports, and are used to connect to HDTVs. HDMI cables carry both video and audio from the Roku to the TV, and provide the highest quality image and video. For many Roku models, this is the only video connection port available.
Almost every Roku model has an Ethernet port that it uses to connect to your router. The port looks like a larger phone line connection. Some of the older models only use Wi-Fi.
Newer Roku models like the Roku 4 may have an Optical connection. This lets you send the audio signal to your home theater receiver
Older Roku models may have composite A/V (three prong) connectors. Note that on some Roku models, the A/V connection may be a single port with a cable that splits into three prongs. These can be used for older TVs, but many newer HDTVs do not support these connections. You cannot get an HD image with composite cables.;
, Once you've identified the ports on your Roku, you'll want to find the highest quality matching port on your TV. For most HDTVs, you'll want to use one of your TV's HDMI ports.


Ports may be located on the back of the TV, along the side, or in some rare cases on the front panel.
If your Roku only has an HDMI port and your TV does not have any HDMI ports, you may be out of luck. You'll need to either find an older Roku that can connect via composite cables, or upgrade your TV to one that has HDMI ports.
 If you're setting up a secondhand Roku, you may want to clear any old settings before setting it up. Plug the Roku into a power outlet. Use a paperclip to press and hold the Reset button on the back or bottom of the Roku for 15 seconds. This will clear all of the internal memory, allowing you to set it up as if it were new., This is the simplest way to connect the Roku to your TV, and will also result in the best quality. For many Roku devices, this is the only way to connect. If you don't have an HDMI cable, you can pick up a cheap one online or from most electronics departments. For the most part, there is little to no difference between an expensive HDMI cable and a cheap one. Just make sure you get one that is long enough to reach from the Roku to the TV with some slack.


If you're connecting via composite A/V cables, match the colors on the cable plugs to the colors of the connectors.
Make note of the input label on the TV when connecting so that you can easily switch to the correct input.
 If you want to use a wired connection, you can use an Ethernet cable to connect the Ethernet port on the Roku to an open LAN port on your router. This may provide a better streaming experience, especially in apartment complexes or other areas with lots of Wi-Fi interference. All Roku devices support Wi-Fi as well, so this step isn't required.
 Use the included power adapter to connect the Roku to an outlet on the wall or power strip.
 If you bought the Roku new, it should come with two AA batteries. Insert these into the remote by removing the battery cover on the back. Leave the back off once you're finished.
 Use the INPUT button on your TV remote to select the HDMI or composite input that the Roku is connected to.


If you don't see the Roku logo or the language menu, check to make sure that you've selected the correct input and that the Roku is plugged into a power outlet.
 Before you can select your language, a pop-up will appear with visual instructions for pairing your remote.


Remove the battery cover from the back of the remote if you put it back on.
Press and hold the Pairing button at the bottom for 3 seconds.
Wait while the Roku pairs with the remote.
 This is the language that all of the Roku menus will be displayed in. You can change this later from the Settings menu.
 Press the OK button on your remote to select "Let's get started." This will run you through the initial setup.
 Roku requires an internet connection in order to stream video, so you'll need to set how you want to connect.


Select "Wireless" to scan for any available wireless network. Choose your network from the list and enter the password if necessary. If you don't see your network, make sure your Roku is in range.
If you're connected via Ethernet, select "Wired." You won't have to perform any additional configuration.
 Occasionally, new version of the Roku software will be released, and the Roku can download and install these updates. If updates are available when setting up your internet connection, you will be prompted to download and install them immediately. Software updates generally lead to a more stable viewing experience.


The Roku will automatically restart after the update is downloaded and installed.
 You'll need to activate your Roku before you can start using it. You'll see a code displayed on the screen. Visit roku.com/link on any computer, phone, or tablet and enter the code from your TV screen to link your Roku with your Roku account. If you don't have a Roku account, you'll be prompted to create a free one.
 You'll be prompted for this PIN whenever making a purchase to prevent unauthorized purchases. This is especially important for families or for those that share the Roku with lots of other people. You can create a PIN when setting up your Roku account.
 Select the "Streaming Channels" from the Roku main menu and browse through the available channels. When you find one you want, select it and then choose "Add channel." It will be added to your Home list. Note that some channels may require additional subscriptions.
 Select a channel from your Roku main menu to begin browsing streaming titles. You'll likely be prompted to log in with your account for that channel. For example, to use the Netflix channel, you'll need a separate Netflix streaming subscription. You'll then be able to log in with your Netflix account.