 Avoid isolating yourself from people you love and things you enjoy. When you disconnect from people and activities, it can increase feelings of loneliness and make you feel worse. Connect with friends and family regularly, especially face-to-face. You don’t have to talk about your feelings, but it can be helpful to be around people who support you.If you don’t have friends or family near you, participate in local social activities, volunteer, and make some new friends.;
, Feeling anxious can lead to avoidant thoughts, feelings, or behaviors.Many people who experience post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) also feel emotionally numb as part of their symptoms.Additionally, depression can lead to numbness and loss of joy and interest in activities.If you feel your emotional numbness is a result of one of these problems, see a therapist about getting a diagnosis and treatment.


A diagnosis can help shed light on any other problems that may be occurring. Treatment can give you hope and help you feel more connected to your emotions.
 Numbness can stem from feeling depressed, anxious, or upset. A therapist can help you work through your emotions at an appropriate pace and not overwhelm you or hurt you. They may also help you gain a better understanding and perspective on past and current situations that are contributing to your emotional numbness. You can learn to identify and label your emotions and make sense of them.A therapist may have you try psychotherapy as well as other practices like meditation, self-hypnosis, focusing, and centering. These practices can help you relax, soothe yourself, and allow emotions to flow in a manageable manner.
Find a therapist by calling your insurance company or a local mental health clinic. You can also get a recommendation from a friend, family member, or physician.
 If you’re currently taking medications and feel like your emotional numbness may be a result of the medications, have a discussion with your physician. They might change your dose or switch you to a different medication. Your physician might ask you to make dietary or lifestyle changes as well.Let your physician know how you feel and that you think it might be related to the medication. Be specific in describing how you feel. For example, you might say, “Since taking the medication, I feel emotionally disconnected and don’t feel like I can connect with myself or other people.”

, You may feel numb because you don’t know how to identify how you feel, or you feel obligated to be a certain way, like always in a good mood. If you’re unsure how to identify your emotions, take cues from your body. Focus on identifying emotions that arise. For example, if you’re going into a situation that makes you feel uncomfortable, you might get ‘butterflies in your stomach’ or tension in your shoulders. Notice subtle changes in your thoughts and behaviors that might impact the way you feel.If you feel lonely, acknowledge that you feel lonely. Notice what this feels like in your body and how it affects your mood, thoughts, and behaviors.
If you’re purposefully closing your emotions out to protect yourself, don’t rush the process. This can overwhelm you and lead to panic.
 Once you’ve identified your emotions, learn to express your feelings in a positive way. Many people talk about their feelings to gain clarity and express their feelings, but this doesn’t have to be the only way. You might write, dance, play or listen to music, paint, or meditate as a way to express your emotions. Creative expression can help improve your health and well-being. Find a meaningful outlet to express whatever emotions arise.Let your emotions out instead of bottling them up or pretending they don’t exist.
If talking about your feelings helps, confide in a good friend or see a therapist.
 If you feel detached or disconnected, try to feel grounded in the present moment. Sit in a chair and feel your feet on the ground and your body against the chair. Feel your body and use your senses to feel connected. Lengthen your breathing and start to notice things around you.For example, start noticing how many things are blue or yellow. Listen closely for sounds and noises. Connect with the present moment.
 If you’re not comfortable talking about your feelings, writing can be an easier way to work through them. Use a journal to process and express your emotions. A journal provides a safe, nonjudgmental, and private way to express your thoughts and feelings.If you don’t know where to start, begin with prompts that require some thoughtful reflection or emotional component.
 You might feel like a part of you has left and you cannot connect with your own emotions. This can lead to feeling numb from both good and bad emotions.Do things that previously brought you happiness. For example, start to paint, jog, or play with your dog.


Even if you don’t want to do activities at first, try them. You might feel more connected once you start.
 Perhaps you feel like you’re in a rut and don’t know how to change your thoughts to support yourself emotionally. If your thoughts tend to be negative or you’re not sure how to make them more positive, start to challenge them. For example, ask yourself “Is this thought true? Are there other ways I could look at this situation? Am I jumping to conclusions?”Focus on making your thoughts more positive. Because your thoughts influence your emotions, having more positive thoughts can help you connect emotionally.
 If you feel overwhelmed and stressed, this can tax your body and emotions to the point where they feel numb. If stress is taking all of your body’s resources, you may feel depleted and not be able to connect in an emotional way.if you’re dealing with stress and need a positive way to cope with it, try daily yoga and meditation. You can also do other relaxing activities such as journaling, listening to or playing music, or taking a walk.Don’t turn to mind-numbing activities like watching television or playing video games to deal with stress. Cope with your stress in a positive way that enhances your life.
 Make a list of all the things you feel are fun, or creative things you’d like to do. Put your favorite activity at number one. This list could be anything you enjoy and would like to incorporate in your daily life, such as taking classes in knitting or crocheting, painting or drawing, inspirational journaling or writing, or going fishing, attending a community event, etc. Hang this list in a place where you will see it daily and start checking it off as you go along.

These creative and fun hobbies will help you relax and cope during times when you are having a hard time with emotions. They help you to remain active and avoid isolation, and some of them, such as painting, drawing, or writing can be used as a form of self expression to release pent up emotions.
Doing artistic or creative activities tells your mind that you are taking care of yourself. It allows you to safely process emotions you may be experiencing or have been suppressing. Share your creativity with those friends or family members whom you feel closest and most comfortable with.
 Don’t ignore what your body needs, even when you feel numb. You might lose your appetite or feel withdrawn from people or the world at large. Even so, pay attention to what your body needs. Eat a healthy diet and schedule regular meals. Get good quality sleep, about 7-9 hours each night. If you’re suddenly over-sleeping or under-sleeping, you might want to speak with a medical professional.Taking care of your body can help you stay on a path to recovery and encourage your body to heal.
 Some people use substances to escape their emotions or numb them out. If you want to use substances or alcohol to run away from your feelings or to numb yourself further, recognize that substances and alcohol do not help you cope positively and may leave you feeling worse instead of better.If you struggle with substances or alcohol addiction, seek help. Find a treatment center or work with a therapist.

