 The best way to become a stronger blocker is to block. While you cannot only block without ever going to the gym, regular blocking exercises must be a part of your workouts. For an added challenge, have people stand on the back of the sled to add weight.


Always focus on your form when practicing. The better it is in practice, the better it will be in a game.
 Squatting closely mimics the act of pressing up and out on a defender, making it an essential exercise for any blocker. Regular squats are important, but there are also blocker-specific variations that you can use once a week to mix things up:



Paused-Front Squat: Using a lower weight than normal, set up for a normal squat. As you lower, hold the bottom position for three seconds. Then explode upwards with the weight.

Dead-Stop Squat: Lower the bar's starting position so that your thighs are slightly higher than parallel to the ground. Get ready under the bar, then simply explode upward. Slowly lower it back to the bar, resting it completely, to finish one rep., Medicine balls, especially those that bounce, are an excellent way to build game-like power in the gym. Start each exercise in a squat position, keeping your knees bent and over your ankles, to mimic your game posture. You can then try:



Medicine Ball Leaps: Launch yourself forward from the squat, throwing the ball directly in front of you as you do. Try to mimic the feeling of exploding into a defender while shoving your arms out for the best results. Land, pickup the ball and repeat.

Repeated Throws: Standing near a wall in squat position, throw the ball into the wall so that it bounces back to your chest. Keep your lower body still the entire time, stringing together as many throws and catches as you can., Your chest muscles activate when you push your arms in front of you, making their usefulness in blocking obviously. Bench pressing and push-ups are the most common and useful exercises, but not the only ones. You should dedicate 2-3 days a week to a strong chest.


Use incline and decline presses to work different areas of your chest muscles.
Try "plyometric pushups," where you must jump off the ground with your hands and clap in front of your face, for truly explosive power., A strong back isn't always noticeable, but it adds serious power throughout your block by keeping you upright, strong, and dense. No matter what exercises your prefer, the following three compound exercises are essential for unbeatable blockers.


Pull-ups
Seated or Standing Rows
Deadlifts.
 Your core helps you keep your back strong and straight. Furthermore, you transfer power from your legs to your upper body through your core, and strong central muscles make all of your movements more efficient. Try out:


Planks/Bridges
Sit-ups
Crunches
Leg lifts.
 Jogging is nothing by a cool-down or warm-up for you. You don't jog on the field as a blocker, you do make tons of short, high-intensity sprints. You should train this way as well. Try out:


Ladder or tire drills that require quick feet for a short amount of time.
10-20 yard sprints, resting for only 30 seconds between each.
Position sprints -- line up against a bag, or no one, and then "block" for 5 seconds. Then turn and sprint downfield for 10 yards as if you were following a play.