 Think about the timing. Administer the enema at the right time. No matter the goal of the enema, the way in which it is administered is the same. However, if the goal is retention, then enemas are best done after a normal bowel movement. For constipation, the enema is given to help evacuate the bowel.


Empty your bladder before an enema to reduce the discomfort associated with adding fluid to the bowel.
Obtain an enema bag which is purchased from the pharmacy or a Fleets enema bottle. The first uses fluid prepared at home while the second is a self-contained unit purchased at the pharmacy.
Place a plastic cloth under the area where you will lie down in case you inadvertently release the fluid before reaching the bathroom.;
, The bag should have been cleaned from any previous use with hot, soapy water. You should never share an enema bag, even if it has been cleaned; each family member should have his own. Fill an enema bag with the desired solution as recommended by your doctor and warm water (see Part 2). Make sure that the clamp is on to contain the fluid. Once the bag is full, hold the bag, hose end down, and open the clamp momentarily to allow the fluid to purge any air from the hose to avoid introducing air which can cause cramps. Then close the clamp.In general, you use smaller amounts of fluid for retention enemas so the rectum is not overwhelmed with the amount of fluid and the individual can retain it without discomfort. Your doctor will instruct you on how full the bag should be.
Make sure you have a method of hanging the bag so someone doesn’t have to hold it up. The administration of fluid in a bag uses gravity. Your best bet is to hang it on a stand near where you are going to administer it. It should be high enough so that the tube allows the fluid to flow easily, about 2 feet (0.6 m) above your rectum but no more than 3 feet (0.9 m) above.
 Measure and mark four inches on the enema tube so you are assured the tube is not inserted more than four inches into your rectum.Lubricate the end of the tube with a lubricating jelly, like KY jelly, to make insertion more comfortable.
 Lay down on your left side, with your knees pulled up to your chest. This changes the position of the lower colon so it is able to receive more fluid from the rectum. Anatomical positioning of the lower colon and gravity will help the fluid to go higher in the colon. Turn your head to one side, left arm under your head., Separate the buttocks and identify the anus, or the outside of the rectum, where the tube will be inserted. Slowly insert the end of the enema tube, or the lubricated end of a Fleet's enema bottle, into the rectum approximately 3.5 inches.While inserting the tube into the anus, bear down and push the anus out as if for a bowel movement.
Never force the tube in. If you can not get it in, do not continue trying. Call you physician to discuss what to do next.
 If using an enema bag, release the clamp and allow the fluid to fill inside. If using a Fleet's enema bottle, apply gentle pressure to the bottle. Gently roll the bottle from the bottom to the top so there is no backflow into the bottle., Breathe through your mouth if you feel cramps. Close the clamp temporarily, until cramping eases, then resume the flow. Watch the bag until it is empty and remove the nozzle. If using the Fleet's enema bottle, keep the bottle rolled and gently remove the tube., If suffering from constipation, try to keep in the lying down position for at least a few minutes and up to one hour before going to the bathroom and expelling the fluid..


If the enema was administered for retention and absorption, you may want to to stay on your left side for 10 minutes, roll to your back for 10 minutes and then your right side for 10 minutes to help the fluid move through the large colon.
 As with any medical treatment, there is the possibility that you may experience some side effects after administering an enema. During the procedure, you may experience a feeling of fullness and some discomfort. Cramps and gas may also persist for a few hours after the enema. Tell your doctor promptly if these symptoms continue any longer than a few hours after the enema has been administered.Using enemas too frequently can result in dehydration and an electrolyte imbalance. Although your body can absorb liquid from the rectum, it can also lose electrolytes from the blood if the fluid in the rectum is hypotonic (or has less electrolytes than in the blood) or can irritate the colon to expel more waste material than intended.
Dehydration can have serious side effects for both the heart and kidneys. Decreased urination, dry mouth, increased thirst, lack of tears, dizziness, lightheadedness, or pale and wrinkled skin can all be symptoms of dehydration.
An allergic reaction to any of the medications commonly used in enemas is rare. However, if you experience an allergic reaction, which involves symptoms such as a rash, itching, swelling, severe dizziness, or trouble breathing, call your physician immediately.

