 No matter whether your want to delete a specific page, the whole blog, or take the whole thing temporarily offline, you'll need to be logged into your account to accomplish anything. Note, however, what deleting a site actually means before continuing:


All posts, comments, followers, etc. will be permanently deleted.
You will not be able to use your domain (website.wordpress.com) ever again.
You cannot delete your Wordpress account, only individual blogs.;
, Wordpress has unfortunately made it difficult to find this crucial site. To get there, click on "My Sites" in the upper left corner after logging in. Scroll down in the box the opens on the left of the screen to "WP Admin." This will bring up your dashboard, where you can delete the blog.


You can always find the dashboard by adding the name of your blog to .wordpress.com/wp-admin/. For example, a blog at WikihowFriend.wordpress.com has a dashboard at WikihowFriend.wordpress.com/wp-admin/.
If you don't have the correct blog open in the Dashboard (for example, you have multiple blogs, but only want to delete one), hover over "Switch Sites" (top left corner), then hover over the blog you want to delete. Click on "WP Admin" when it appears next to the chosen blog., -- in case you want to bring your blog back at some point. Once you delete the blog, it isn't coming back. To prevent later regrets, you can save all of your content easily through the "Export Content" feature, allowing you to re-instate the blog later if you want. To export:


Click on "Tools" in the WP Administrative Screen.
Click on "Export Content."
Choose "All Content" and click "Download Export File."
Save and download the .XML file of your entire blog's content., Go to the "Manage Upgrades" screen and cancel or transfer all of your upgrades -- you cannot delete the blog with them on. Note, however, that if you forget to do this now you will be prompted with a "Manage my Upgrades" button later in the deletion process.Adjusting your upgrades now allows you to keep using the upgrades you've already paid for on a different blog.
 You'll notice that you're asked again if you want to export content, allowing you one last chance to save your precious posts.
 If you can't get to the WP Admin page, you can still delete the site, though it is harder to export content without the WP Admin view. Simply click on "My Sites" → "Settings" → "Delete Site" to do it from the main menu.All of the buttons needed will be on the left side of the screen.
 You will have to retype the URL of your blog to confirm that this is the one you want deleted, a great safety measure that prevents you from destroying content you want to keep. Remember, deleting a site on WordPress is permanent -- think about this before clicking yes.