 While female teenagers are expected to appear pretty at all times and meet certain expectations, society deems you as too young to be thoroughly judged. Therefore, you will be able to still look pretty while escaping certain requirements, such as makeup. Despite what people may tell you, understand that you can be beautiful no matter how far you are from your teenage years.
 As you and your classmates grow older, they might start forming groups where they all attempt to appear the same. They might pretend to have common likes and dislikes in order to fit in. While you might be tempted to join them, remain true to yourself. Trying to become who you aren't will only harm you in the future. Instead, find true friends who accept you for who you are rather than trying to change you.


Refusing to become like other people might result in some people disliking you. While rejection might hurt, the choice to be original will benefit you in the future. Trying to be someone that you're not will become harder as the years go by.
 Although you might love who you are, not everyone will like you. Some might gossip or spread hurtful comments about you. However, turn your back on them and continue on with life. Do not care about their opinions as long as you're doing the right thing without hurting people. Behaving with the right attitude will help you find your inner beauty.
 Use the correct pronunciation, and articulate your words. Speak your mind while being respectful. Additionally, learn to listen to other people. Refrain from swearing, as such terrible words should not be found in a pretty girl's mouth.
 When conversing with family, friends, or higher authorities, have a good attitude and be polite. Remember your manners, which include saying "thank you" and "please." When being reprimanded or corrected by your parents, listening to them with a good attitude. Treating people with respect will show that you are beautiful on the inside and outside. Also, it proves to them that you can be trusted.


Learning the correct behaviors at a young age will help you in the future. You'll be able to befriend the right people, as well as win the favor of higher authorities.
 Befriend people that will have a positive influence on you. Treat them as an equal, and show them kindness in order to make them feel good around you. By showing them that you are a good person, you'll be able to form a stronger bond and have people who'll stand by your side in the future. If they are a negative influence in your life or hurt you on purpose, don't hesitate to tell your parents and/or teacher, as they can help you find a solution to your problem.
 While you'll never be completely perfect, it doesn't meant that you can't have a good heart. Maintaining your health, appearance, and relationships will help you be at your best. Shaping your life and personality to have the right virtues and values will also benefit you .

