 Honey is a natural antibiotic and works to pull out dirt from your open pores. Mix a tablespoon of honey with ½ a teaspoon of cinnamon and use your fingers to dab it onto your dry skin. Rub it in a circular motion for three minutes and then wash off with warm water. Make sure to wash your hands before you start applying the mask.
 Egg whites help to tighten pores and pull out any clogged dirt giving you smooth, clear skin. Remove the yolks from two eggs and smear it into a thin layer over your face. Give it two minutes to dry, then add the remaining whites in a second layer. Give the complete mask an additional 10-15 minutes to dry, or until the whites are smooth to the touch and your skin feels tight. Use warm water to rinse the whites off your face.
 There are many different kinds of cosmetic clay available to purchase in a powdered form, each with the specialized property of drying out oily pores and removing unwanted residue. Mix a tablespoon of powdered clay with enough apple cider vinegar to make a paste, and spread it over your face. Leave it for 10-15 minutes until it is dry to the touch, and then rinse off with warm water., The lactic acid in the yogurt and the calming qualities of oatmeal mix to create a blackhead-blocking formula. Make a paste of three tablespoons yogurt, two tablespoons whole oats, and a few drops of lemon juice and olive oil. Mix between your fingers and apply it to the skin by dabbing onto the affected area. Allow it to set for ten minutes, and then rinse off with warm water.
 Fenugreek? That’s right - use the leafy green blended with water to form a paste. Besides its numerous other health benefits, fenugreek has shown promising results for removing blackheads. Spread this paste over your face and allow it to sit for ten minutes, and then rinse off.
 Both spices you likely have in your kitchen cupboard, turmeric and mint help to clean out dirty pores. Create a brew of mint tea and allow it to cool. Then, add two tablespoons of the liquid with a tablespoon of turmeric powder and apply it to your face. Leave it on for ten minutes and then rinse off with warm water.
 Epsom salt mixed with iodine form a bacteria-fighting combo perfect for removing blackheads. Mix a tablespoon of epsom salt with hot water and a few drops of iodine. Let this mixture sit, stirring occasionally to dissolve the salt completely into the hot water. Then, use a bit of cotton to dab the solution onto your skin, allowing it to dry onto your face. Then gently rinse the mixture off with clean warm water.

