 On your iPad, go to the App Store app and tap on it to launch it. Look to the far right side of the screen, and locate the search bar.
 Once you've searched for Kindle, you'll see a list of applications. Go to the first result with the Kindle icon, and tap on the small rectangle next to it that reads GET (the Kindle app is free). The rectangle will now turn green, and read Install.


The Kindle format is a closed format which is only supported by Amazon products. However, Kindle makes a book reader app available for the iPad, which is available from the App Store.
 The system will ask you to confirm your iTunes password. Enter it in the space provided, then tap OK.
 You'll be able to observe the download progress of the Kindle app on your screen. Once the download has finished, the small rectangle next to the Kindle app will read OPEN. Tap on it to launch the app.
 If you don't have an Amazon account, simply go to Amazon.com and create an account. It's fast and free, and required to use the Kindle app.
 In Safari, type in amazon.com. Then, look to the far right hand corner of the Amazon screen, and move your finger over the Sign In option. Right beneath the yellow sign in button, you'll see a New Customer? Start Here option. Tap on it.
 You'll be asked a few, simple question to create a user profile. Fill in all the spaces, then tap on Create Account.


Note: you must purchase books through amazon.com in order to read them on your Kindle app.
Stay on amazon.com to purchase an ebook.
 At the top of amazon's page, you'll see a search bar. Next to it, you'll see the first search category displayed as All. Tap on it to view more search options, then select Books.
 Enter the title or book author in the search bar, and tap on the orange button Go. You'll see a list of books matching your search criteria. Each book result also has book options, such as Hardcover, Paperback, and Kindle Edition. Tap on Kindle Edition.
 Once you tap on Buy Now or Buy With One Click, you'll have to select the device to which your book will be delivered. Select your iPad, then tap Continue.


Shortly after you tap on your iPad as your chosen delivery device, a new screen will come up letting you know that your ebook is waiting in your Kindle Library. Right below this message, you'll have the option to tap on Go To Kindle For iPad. Tap on it to automatically launch the Kindle app.
Your newly downloaded book will be marked as New.

