 Ultimately, your first step to keeping your blood sugar down is to determine the appropriate range to stay within from your physician. Be sure to take careful note of what your doctor recommends and follow guidelines accordingly.


Glucose is your body's main energy source, so you need to maintain a certain and consistent range for your entire body to function well.;
, People with type 1 diabetes must take insulin (those with type 2 diabetes may use other treatments). It is important to adjust your levels of insulin in accordance with doctor’s orders so that you can lower your blood glucose. Insulin levels may be altered according to a change in exercise or meal plan.It's important not only to take insulin, but to be diligent and adjust the dose according to glucose level outlined by your doctor


Insulin comes in various forms such as vials, pre-filled pens and pumps.
Injection sites should be chosen carefully, depending on your level of physical activity.
Insulin amounts vary for each individual.
Medication’s effectiveness is dependent upon dosage and time of day it is taken.
 It is vital that you consistently check your blood sugar levels so you stay within a healthy range as recommended by your doctor. By watching your levels you can avoid hypoglycemia, which is low blood sugar and hyperglycemia, which is high blood sugar. , It is a must to keep snacks with you at all times to help control your blood sugar levels.Carbohydrate-rich foods will raise your blood glucose levels.
Good options for snacks with carbs and protein are almonds, string cheese, hummus, apples, carrots, cantaloupe, cottage cheese, bananas, and peanut butter.
Consider keeping a log of your glucose level, time, and insulin dosing. You can do this on paper or even on your phone — there are apps that will help you easily log and track your levels.Your doctor can use this information to look for patterns in your glucose levels, and it can help you identify which foods cause a spike in your glucose levels.
 Many people with diabetes may not be aware of these two causes of high glucose levels, in particular in the morning before the person eats breakfast.The dawn phenomenon occurs because the liver releases large amounts of sugar in response to certain hormones. In response, the body will normally release insulin; since people with type 1 diabetes can't create insulin, this may cause their glucose levels to be high when they first wake up.The Somogyi effect often occurs in patients who take insulin but don't eat a regular bedtime snack. The person's glucose levels drop during the night, and the body will respond by releasing sugar. Thus, when the person wakes up, he will have higher-than-normal glucose levels.To tell if you are experiencing the dawn phenomenon or Somogyi effect, check glucose levels before bed, then again around 2 a.m., then when you wake up. Do this for a few days, noting your levels at all of these times. If the person's glucose levels are low at 2 a.m., it is likely the Somogyi effect. If they are normal or high, then the person may be experiencing the dawn phenomenon., Exercise involves any physical activity that gets your body moving and it helps diabetics in a number of ways. Walking, light jogging, heavy cleaning, yard work, etc. are all considered forms of exercise.
Exercise helps with: glucose levels, blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, energy, fitness and well-being.
 Type 1 diabetes is often considered a balancing act and the amount of physical activity you get needs to be at equilibrium with the food you eat and medications you are prescribed. You will meet with your doctor regularly to adjust your dosage of insulin and medication as your diet and level of exercise changes. Your doctor will keep a book that records your medication, insulin, activity level, and any changes to them.
Be sure to make your doctor aware of any major changes to your exercise level or meal plan.
 With type 1 diabetes, you must balance your activities with what you are eating and the medicine you are taking. In order to discover how different types of exercise affect your levels of glucose, monitor your levels. Be sure to record your levels before, during and after exercise. Certain activities affect your blood glucose level more than others.
Your body’s blood glucose levels will be affected in various ways depending on: a change in your dosage of insulin, length of workout, intensity of workout, and level of glucose, pre-workout.
 Make sure you are prepared for a drop or rise in blood glucose levels. By packing yourself some snacks to take with you when you exercise, you will be well-equipped to raise your blood glucose level if necessary or to choose appropriate activities if your blood glucose levels rise. Snack on foods or drinks high in carbohydrates if you test low for blood glucose.
Avoid intense exercises if you test high for blood glucose levels and/or if your urine tests positive for ketones.
 It is a good idea to get in touch with a registered professional such as a dietician or nutritionist when coming up with a safe and healthy meal plan to treat your type 1 diabetes.Speak with a specialist such as a certified diabetes educator.
A specialist can act as part of your support system.
Your specialist can answer any food-related questions or concerns.
Your specialist can teach you the importance of portion sizes and how to count carbohydrates.
Meet with your specialist on a regular basis to develop, maintain, and change meal plans.
 Carbohydrates affect your blood sugar differently than proteins and fats because not all nutrients affect blood sugar the same way. Carbohydrates affect blood sugar levels significantly more than fats and proteins.


Proteins role in your body is to steady the level of blood sugar.
When eating just by itself, fat doesn’t affect your blood glucose levels, it essentially keeps them steady.
Carbohydrates raise blood sugar, which can be good when your levels drop but the proper consumption of fats and proteins can actually help lessen the impact of carbohydrates on your blood sugar levels.
 Skipping meals is no way to control your blood sugar. In fact, it can cause your level of blood sugar to rise. Make sure you are eating at least three meals a day along with some snack thrown in. , Dietary guidelines for people suffering from type 1 diabetes are not all that different from those without diabetes. Simply make certain you eat well-balanced and nutritional meals. Consume foods that contain lots of nutrients.
For each meal, eat a serving of vegetables without starch such as broccoli, carrots, peppers, mushrooms, spinach and cucumbers.
Try and eat at least one serving of starchy foods per meal like, corn, potatoes, whole grain rice and bread, peas, and cooked beans.
Low-sodium foods are best.
Avoid drinks containing a lot of sugar.
Have a glass of low-fat or fat-free milk with each meal.
 It is just as important to maintain a diet that consists of food you enjoy as it is to maintain one that controls your blood sugar levels. This way, you are more likely to adhere to the diet because you are enjoying the foods you eat. Create a plan that include both snacks and full meals that can be easily incorporated every day. itMeal plans must be customized because not every meal plan will work for everyone.
Make adjustments when necessary.
Don’t overeat.
Be sure to eat three meals per day if that is what you’re used to or several small meals per day if you eating habits are more like that.
Create eating patterns by making sure you eat around the same time each day and eating meals with similar amounts of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats.

