 You can contact Nancy Grace with fan mail, questions, or general comments by sending her a letter through the postal system. There are two separate mailing addresses you can use. One directs mail to her CNN show, and the other directs mail to her show on Court TV.Note that these are her professional mailing addresses. There are no private or personal mailing addresses available to the general public.
To contact Nancy Grace via CNN, send your letter to:

The Nancy Grace Show
CNN
1 Time Warner Center
New York, NY 10019


To contact Nancy Grace via Court TV, send your mail to:

Court TV
600 Third Avenue
2nd Floor
New York, NY 10016

;
, If you have comments or questions that you want to convey quickly, you can contact Nancy Grace's staff by phone. Do so by calling: 1-212-973-2800


Understand that you will likely speak with staff members only. You may not be able to speak directly to Nancy Grace, even if you call her.
The public phone number provided for Nancy Grace is linked to her Court TV show.
 Sending an e-mail can get your comments to Nancy Grace as fast as quickly as placing a phone call can, and you can deliver your comments with as much detail in an e-mail as you can with a traditional letter. When writing her an e-mail, send it to: nancy.grace@turner.com


Note that this e-mail address is linked to Nancy Grace's show on CNN.
This is a professional e-mail address. There are no private e-mail addresses for Nancy Grace that are available to the general public. As a general rule, if you find a private e-mail address for a public figure like Nancy Grace online, that address will typically be a fraud.
 The contact form on her official website can be used for both comments and questions. You can find the form here: http://www.nancygrace.com/contact.html


You'll need to provide your first name, last name, and e-mail address. You will also need to type in a security code to verify that you are a real person and not a robot.
Type in an appropriate subject line in the "Subject" field, and write your comments and questions in the "Message" box. When finished, hit the "Send" button.
Note that Nancy Grace's website primarily serves as a victim's rights resource. Keep that in mind when opting to use this form.
 There is a separate form for you to use for comments, and that form can be found here: http://www.cnn.com/feedback/show/?s=nancygrace&hdln=2


Do not send questions using this form.
You must provide your name and e-mail address when sending in your comments. You can also provide a phone number, but that information is optional.
 If you have a question for Nancy Grace, do not use the CNN "comments" form noted in the previous step. CNN has a separate "questions" form for you to use, and that can be found here: http://www.cnn.com/feedback/show/?s=nancygrace&hdln=1


Do not send general comments using this form.
As with the "comments" form, you must provide your name and e-mail address when using this form. You also have the option of including a phone number with your comments.
 If you do not know whether to direct your message to the "questions" form or the "comments" form, CNN also has a generic form you can use for either option. You can find that form here: http://www.cnn.com/feedback/forms/form5.html?81


When using this form, you will need to provide your name, city, state/province, zip code, country, and e-mail address. You will also need to indicate whether your comment is positive or negative, and you have the option of including a phone number.
 Nancy Grace has a notably active presence on Twitter. You can send her a quick Tweet with comments, questions, or information pertaining to the news she covers by typing out your comments and directing them to: @nancygracehln


To view her Twitter page, visit: https://twitter.com/NancyGraceHLN

Even though she does have an active Twitter presence, Nancy Grace may not be able to reply to your comments or questions.
Due to the nature of Twitter, this option is best used if you have short comments, brief questions, or a link you would like to share.
You must have a Twitter account to use this option.
 In addition to being active on Twitter, Nancy Grace is also fairly active on Facebook. You can view her Facebook page by visiting: https://www.facebook.com/NancyGraceHLN


Interact with others on her page by commenting on the articles she posts, or leave a direct comment directed at her on her page's timeline.
If you want to write a longer comment or question, or otherwise do not want your comments to appear publicly, you can send her a private message by clicking on the blue “Message” button at the top of her fan page.
You will need to have your own Facebook account to make use of this option.
 If you have a Pinterest account, you can follow Nancy Grace on her own account and interact with her there. Navigate to her Pinterest page by checking out the following link: https://www.pinterest.com/thenancygrace/


Note that you cannot send private messages to Nancy Grace via Pinterest, nor is there any option that would allow you to send generic comments or questions.
You can contact her via Pinterest by commenting on the “pins” she posts.
 If you prefer interacting with others on Instagram, you should consider checking out Nancy Grace's Instagram page. Take a look at it here: http://instagram.com/thenancygrace


As with Pinterest, you can interact with her on Instagram by commenting on photos she posts. There is no place to post generic comments or questions, though, nor is there a way to send a private message.

