 This step may seem simple, but you must chose the correct type. In your music store, there are lots of recorder types. Be sure to buy the one labeled "Soprano". You do not have to buy a very expensive one, since it will not create a better sound as a cheap one. A simple plastic recorder with a cleaning stick is what you want, not a super expensive bamboo soprano!;
, You should have a recorder bag to keep your recorder; if not, you can find a substitute at home, or even sew one. The store also should provide you with a "plastic stick". That is the cleaning stick, which you put tissue on top of the rounded side and push the stick in to clean your recorder. Keep your stick in your recorder bag. If the store did not supply you with that, use water to clean it by running it through the bottom round hole and blowing from the mouthpiece to dry it.
 You will learn the notes B, A, G, F,E, and D in this category. When you play any note, be sure to cover the whole hole or else the note will be different!

, This one is the most simple note. Simply use your left hand thumb to cover the hole on the back of your recorder and cover the first note in front with your pointer finger. Check for any part of the two holes uncovered, and blow. The note should be high, but not extremely high that it squeaks. If it does, cover the holes again and try again.
 The sound should be a bit lower. For G, let your ring finger fall on the next hole and blow. The sound should decrease to form a lower sound. If it squeaks, don't give up, just try again.
 Don't fret, it's not that hard. Put your right thumb behind the recorder and let your left pinky hang off the recorder. Put your pointer finger on the next uncovered hole and blow. If the F is too high, check  all the fingers. After you are done move onto E; just drop a finger and blow. Repeat to play D.
, The sound should be high, but not yet squeaky.
 Use your other hand to keep the recorder from slipping out of your fingers. This sound should be even closer to squeaky.
 That sound should be almost the same as a squeaky note, but not yet one.
 Simply type the name of your favorite song and after that, type "recorder notes".
 After you have practiced, you could even play with the video!

