 Panic anxiety disorder is a mental condition whereby a patient experiences panic attacks continually. If you frequently feel fearful about things that you can not control, you may have this disease. The attacks occur at all times and places, and are frequently experienced over and over. There are two separate kinds of panic disorders:



Panic Disorder with Agoraphobia -- People in this group have an extreme fear of having another panic attack and try to deflect any possible causes of anxiety. If you bear this sort of panic attack disorder, you may be so paralyzed with fear of having another attack that you do not want to exit your dwelling.

Panic Disorder Without Fearing Public Places -- This kind of panic attack disorder contains many of the same symptoms, except these individuals can leave their homes without experiencing unreasonable anxiety. The fear is there most of the time, but it is not as incapacitating as the first type.;
, Any bookstore has a section. Make sure that the author is a properly trained professional and not just wanting to promote a religion or a certain lifestyle.
 A method is to imagine (visualize) breathing in super-clean (almost sparkly) air and breathe out all the pollutants your body has stored -in clean -dirty out. Try to make the exhale last a little longer than the inhale. During panic attacks, or when one is building, some professionals recommend occupying as many senses as possible - panic attacks can be a response to an overload of sensory input, and filling up as much attention as possible with moving things, sounds, tastes and textures can occupy enough of your thoughts that it can prevent you from getting anxious.
, Give it time to work and don't stop without consulting a doctor.
 A patient suffering from a panic anxiety disorder may find respite through a method called exposure therapy, which exposes them to the physical symptoms of a panic attack in the presence of a professional. Again: Make sure that the person you are consulting is a properly trained professional and not just wanting to promote a religion or a certain lifestyle.

