 As part of your ADHD, there may be situations where you are impulsive and say or so the wrong thing. You don't give yourself enough time to think before you speak or act. For example, you tell your boss that an idea he has about sales projections is way off or you may buy yourself a new outfit when you really can't afford it, just because you had to have it.


Instead of saying the first thing that comes into your head, take a deep breath and think to yourself, "Let me think about this." before you answer someone. Also try putting your finger over your mouth in a thoughtful pose before you speak to give yourself time to think about your answer.
You can also talk more slowly, which will give your brain time to process the information before you speak. Also, before you make a decision that involved money or other important things, think about what you are doing and if it is possible or wise to do it.To help stop yourself from buying something when you're not sure you should, ask yourself a few questions. Before you reach for your wallet, ask yourself if you have the money to buy it, need to items you are about to buy, and if you would feel bad telling someone else that you are buying the items. This will help you think through all of your purchases before you make them.
 Adults with ADHD have trouble using nonverbal working memory, which means it is hard for them to draw on past experiences to guide their current actions. This means it is often hard for adults with ADHD to change the outcome of a situations they've experienced in the past because they always respond the same way. To help with this problem, take time to think about the decision you are about to make and think about all the times you've faced a similar problem in the past.


To help do this, mentally visualize your past experiences by bringing up a video screen in your mind and play back the memory of the last time you had the same or a similar decision to make. Learn from your past mistakes and try to get to a different outcome., Many adults with ADHD have a hard time completing tasks because it is hard for them to see the rewards for getting a project done or the consequences for not getting it done. This is especially true for smaller tasks that aren't as important as others. When you are working on a project, take the time to ask yourself, "How will I feel when I get this project done?" Focus on the positive feelings, such as accomplishment, pride, self-satisfaction, or happiness. As you think about these feelings, try to make yourself feel them right then, which will help you want to remember them as you complete your project so you can feel them for a real reason.


If you are having trouble visualizing the end goal, cut out pictures or words that describe the end goal and feelings you will have once the project is done. Keep them as visual reminders about your end goal as you work.
If you are still having trouble, try making your own reward system for tasks. Think about something that you want, such as a cupcake or a movie marathon at home. Tell yourself that if you get this project done at work, you can watch at least one movie at home that night or eat a cupcake for dessert after dinner. This will give you more concrete, real rewards for tasks you do every day., Although ADHD can be a serious problem, you don't have to be serious or cagey about it. When you do something that is caused from your ADHD, own up to it, but keep a sense of humor about it. Learn to tell people with a smile, "That's my ADHD acting up again. I'm sorry about that and it was my mistake. I'll try to do something about that next time." This is true for work, school, or personal situations and relationships. You don't want to start blaming others or pushing the responsibility to other people.


Doing this owns your mistakes and explains to others why it happened. Don't let your ADHD ruin your work or home life. Owning that it happened and keeping your sense of humor will help you cope better on a day to day basis., It may be hard to remember to do a task if you put it off. Instead of putting things off, do tasks as soon as you get them. File papers at work as soon as you finish working on them, return phone calls as soon as you get the messages, and clean up any mess you make as soon as it happens.


If you don't have time to deal with the task when it arises, make sure write a reminder to yourself to go back and complete it at the earliest possible time., There are people called ADHD coaches that help you with your practical, day to day activities and show you have to manage them more effectively. These coaches help with work and home life. Typically, the coach will help you identify challenges and develop strengths in person or over the phone for a few sessions a month.


Search online or ask you doctor in order to find the right ADHD coach for you., Exercise helps the brain to produce more of the chemicals that you are lacking. You should do at least 30 minutes of good exercise every day. It is very hard for people with ADHD to just go to a gym or excise for the sake of exercising. Find a form of exercise that you are likely to make an effort to do. The dopamine released while your exercise will help keep you focused for hours after your done.


Exercise such as martial arts, dance classes, adult gymnastics, or yoga are great for people with ADHD. It will not only work your body, but the mental capabilities and processes that go into these exercises help work your brain as well and will keep you more alert. Studies have also shown that these exercises may also help improve your overall memory capabilities and focus., Your diet can help improve your ADHD issues. Stay away from processed and refined sugars, excessive fats, and greasy foods. They help slow your brain down. In the morning, eat more protein to help build your dopamine levels. Eat more foods with essential omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon and oatmeal, to help with brain function.


People with ADHD often forget to eat meals and skip drinking water. Make sure you eat and drink enough every day. Leave yourself reminders if you have to., With ADHD, your brain is constantly on the go and buzzing around. To help with this, you need to give your brain a break from everything. A few times a day, take a short break from all stimulus, including electronics. Find a quiet place to sit for five minutes, away from noise and other external stimulation. Try active meditation as specific type of break for your brain. This will help your brain slow down and catch up with itself.


Although it is time away from work or school, it will actually make you more efficient if your brain is not running away with itself.