 If you live in a cold weather area and you are leaving during a time when inclement weather is a possibility, you want to make sure your pipes are well insulated. Frozen pipes can cause significant damage to your home, and if no one is there to check them after cold weather it may go unnoticed until you return.Go into areas where pipes are at a greater risk of freezing, like the attic and the basement, and check their insulation. Consider hiring a plumber to inspect your pipes if you are worried about their insulation.A neighbor that is checking up on your house should test the faucets while you’re away. If there is no water coming from the faucets, your pipes may be frozen. Ask them to contact you immediately if this happens while you’re away.
 Before you leave, unplug the appliances in your home that are non-essential, like your microwave, a stereo, a coffeemaker, and lamps you won’t leave on.


This protects your home in the event of a power surge or an electrical fire.
This is also an energy efficient way to reduce your electrical consumption while you’re away.
 Before you leave, check that each door and window are securely locked. Having locks installed will do you no good if they are not locked while you are gone! Go through every room of your home and apartment and check that each window and entry door is secure.


It is also helpful do a perimeter of your house from the outside. Look for any window screens that look loose or unsecured.
 This is a good way to keep your electricity and natural gas costs low while you’re away. Adjust the temperature on the thermostat and turn down the temperature on your water heater.


You don’t want to turn your thermostat completely off. Depending on your area’s climate, 55 degrees is a good limit for the winter and 80 degrees for the summer.
You can also consider monitoring your heat from afar. The most cost-effective way to monitor your heat while you are away is to install a wireless thermostat that you can monitor and program from your mobile phone or device while you are on vacation.
 Garage doors are an easy way for intruders to enter your home. Manual garage doors can be secured with a clamp or padlock to prevent them from being opened.Turn off your automatic garage door opener if you have one. This will prevent someone with a universal remote from opening the door while you’re away.

