 If you pay off some of your loan balance, your total interest costs will decline. You may be able to get a smaller monthly payment, even if interest rates are the same. When you pay down your principal, you can contact your lender about restructuring the loan.Assume that you have a $10,000 car loan and an 8% interest rate. Your loan has 4 years remaining.
You decide to pay down $2,000 of the $10,000 balance. You ask your lender if the monthly payments can be reduced, since your new loan balance is only $8,000.
Even if your interest rate remains at 8%, your monthly loan payments may be lower.
 You may be able to refinance a group of loans with new loan terms. Your monthly payment on one larger loan may be lower after consolidating several smaller loans.Meet with a lender to talk through the pros and cons of a consolidation loan. A consolidation can help you lower the interest rate on your debts. However, you need to consider the risks of a variable rate loan, or extending the term of a loan.Say that you have a $10,000 car loan at 8%. You also have three credit card balances totaling $6,000. The average interest rate on your three cards is 12%.
Two factors may lower your interest rate on these loans. If interest rates have declined, or if your credit rating has improved, you may be able to lower the interest rate for these consolidated debts.
Having one consolidated payment to make each month also simplifies things for you. When you create your monthly budget, you don’t need to account for so many payments.
 A good way to reduce your payments is to make payments on a cheaper car. This is another way to reduce your payment, even if interest rates have not declined.The car you sell must be worth more than the loan balance. If not, you may need to pay for the difference out of your own pocket.
Assume that your loan is for $9,500, and your car is worth $10,000. When you sell your car, you can use the $500 profit as a down payment on a $6,500 car.
The $6,000 loan balance reduces your required monthly car payment.

