 Doing things in advance saves you so much time. Buy the animal from a verified bazaar or shop or seller. Check for the necessities in the animal as per the Islamic Shariah. Ask an Islamic scholar for help if you are unsure of the type of animal to buy for sacrifice, or read the Quran for further information. Alternately, check online for quick information , Once the animal(s) has been bought, make sure you feed it properly, and allow it to have regular walks to keep it in good shape, especially if you have bought it early on before the Eid date. Don't forget to feed and water it mainly. Also, nurture it. The main essence of Eid is to sacrifice what you love towards God's (Allah's) way. Hence the more attached you become to the animal, the more reward God will grant you. Spend time with your animal. But do not let it hinder with your basic daily activities.
 Make beautiful cards, or just get pre-prepared ones from the shop. There are lovely Eid invitation cards present in numerous markets across the globe. Make an invitation list, consulting your spouse and children on the matter, and set cards for each guest. Then send them at least 1-2 weeks BEFORE Eid day so that your guests have ample time to prepare and decide themselves too! This way you won't overwhelm anyone else nor yourself, as a week before you'll know exactly who's coming and how many people you'll need to arrange for.
 This can either be a private butcher or a butchery shop that runs special sacrificial butchery for the occasion. Be quick to book any butcher, as the longer you take, the more hectic it will be to find a good butcher! Also, let your guests know whether the butchery will be done at your own house so they can bring their animals too. If not, they should know to come AFTER they've sacrificed their own animals.
, You need to be cleanly and properly dressed for this blessed occasion, and so need to either decide on a beautiful dress or buy it. You could also get it stitched privately and in that case will need to do it with plenty of time for the tailor to sew it. Many tailors and shops close in for Eid early on, so be prepared before-hand (at least 2 weeks).
 Obviously, you will not be able to prepare meat dishes as the meat will not be available until after the sacrifice is done (which is on Eid day). However, you can prepare the sweet dishes according to your own national culture (for e.g--Pakistan: Kheer). You have to be careful to only do the preparation, but not the actual cooking so to not let any dish go bad the day you have to serve it! There are some dishes that can be prepared though. Keep track of the menu, and make necessary arrangements. Rent a cook for a few days for the preparation and the actual cooking on Eid day, just for the special occasion (if you do not already have one capable enough). Food is an important part of the event, so make sure you are prepared to feed those hungry guests!

, A few days before Eid, make a timetable with your spouse and run it through with the family. This will avoid any confusions on the big day!

, Make sure your clothes are ironed, the butcher has been informed, the cook knows the menu (or if you're cooking yourself, you have prepared the menu), the animals are tied safely and everyone has been informed.,