 Rituals have a proven psychological effect of improving luck.When people see how well you do on your final exam after finishing your pre-test ritual, they might think you have some elusive insight into the inner workings of the world.


Get a lucky charm, like a rabbits foot, lucky coin, or game piece. These are highly portable, good conversation pieces, and can be soothing to trace or pet with your hand.
Consider a personal variation of a good luck gesture, like knocking on stone instead of knocking on wood, or tapping on the frame of a door before entering a room.
 There's no point in wasting your time alone just to give the impression that you're an elusive person, so why not plan ahead and look up activities to keep you occupied in the meantime? A soft calendar is filled with events that might be nice to do but can always be done later. A soft event, like going to the park, is flexible, where a doctor's appointment you scheduled a month ago is not. A soft calendar can also be a source for excuses in the event you offer a raincheck.


If a friend asks you to come on an outing, you might tell him that you were planning on going to the museum, and that you would love to join some other time.
If you should change your mind, like in the case of you finding out your best friend was also going on the trip, you can always say, "You know, I can go to the museum any day. I think I will join you this time."

, You never know when you might need to make an escape to sustain your elusive charm among your friends. When you are spending time at a public place, do some reconnaissance the day before or look up a map online. This way, if you feel the need to disappear discreetly, you can duck into an alcove unknown to others.


Use your knowledge of the lay of the land to your advantage. With a stopwatch you can time your return to the scene so that it's a surprise that makes people ask, "Where did you come from? And... when did you leave?"

, This is a way you can extend your influence in ways that surprise your regular crew. You can attend less popular sporting events to show your support, quickly establishing new friends in the process. Having a broad network of friends will give you options for spending your time that are consistent with your elusive demeanor.


Make sure you spend enough time with the people in your life to keep your relationships healthy. Even if you do not feel the closest connection with a person, you should always take feelings into account.

