 What is competing for your dog's attention? Is it a squirrel? Is it a vacuum cleaner? A particular tempting pile to roll in? When you are first introducing a behavior, start in a familiar, low distraction place, like your house.


Keep your lessons short (5 minutes or less). Your dog has a small brain and won’t be able to concentrate for very long.
Never train more than one dog at a time. Dogs are easily distracted, and another dog in the area doesn't help your efforts. Dogs always display different behavior when they are around other dogs (whether they are a familiar dog to them or not). They might end up playing with the other dog more than they are listening to you.
 Another option (if available) is enrolling the dog in “fun” classes, where dog training experts will help you with a stubborn dog.You could also hire a dog trainer to come to your home. Check with your local veterinarian for references.
Try using a clicker with the dog. You need to associate your clicker with a treat, so your dog knows that a reward is waiting when you use the clicker and say a command.
 Maybe the dog feels like he is being bullied and has shut himself away from any input (this is especially common in sensitive dogs, and dog breeds that are usually sensitive).


Maybe the dog is slower by nature (some dogs are just not as active as some other dogs; if you have a dog that usually moves slowly, don’t expect him to do fast tricks.)
Consider whether the dog is lazy or sick (dogs, like people, will be less motivated to do things on hot days, for example, or when they are not feeling well).
Be honest about whether the dog simply does not understand what the owner wants (some things, like sentences, can seem very clear to humans but are not understandable to a dog despite a dog's best intentions). Maybe there is nothing in it for the dog (dogs, like humans, do things because there is something to be gained from it; dogs expect less - a treat, ball or a pat is to them what a whole salary is to a human).

