 Fruits and vegetables are an excellent source of magnesium, and an important part of your daily diet. Common fruits and vegetables that contain magnesium include:Apple (one medium-sized fruit, raw) — 9 mg
Avocado (one cup) — 44 mg
Broccoli (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 12 mg
Carrot (one medium-sized vegetable, raw) — 7 mg
Edamame/baby soy beans (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 52 mg
Okra (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 50 mg
Potato with skin (cooked, one medium-sized potato) — 47 to 52 mg
Prickly pear (one fruit, raw) — 88 mg
Raisins (1/2 cup) — 23 mg
Spinach (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 83 mg
Swiss chard (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 80 mg
Tamarind (1/2 cup) — 58 mg;
, In addition to fruits and vegetables, protein should be an important part of your daily diet. Whether you get your protein from meat or from meat substitutes (for vegetarians and vegans), you should make sure you get enough magnesium from that protein source. Meats tend to be relatively low in magnesium, while meat substitutes are significantly higher. Common protein-based sources of magnesium include:


Beef (ground, 90% lean, pan broiled, three ounces) — 20 mgChicken breast (roasted, three ounces) — 22 mg
Tempeh (cooked, 3/4 cup) — 116 mg
Tofu (prepared with magnesium chloride or calcium sulfate, 3/4 cup) — 45 to 80 mgSirloin (1 oz) — 8.8 mgLamb (1 oz) — 7.4 mg
Turkey (1 oz) — 7.9 mg
Veal (1 oz) — 9.4 mg

, If you like seafood, you'll be happy to know that it typically contains high levels of nutritional magnesium; however, it's important to moderate your seafood intake due to heavy metals (like mercury) and other pollutants that are absorbed by fish.Try to limit your seafood intake to 12 ounces a week.Some of the best seafood for nutritional magnesium include:


Atlantic snow crab (cooked, 2.5 ounces) — 47 mg
Chinook salmon (cooked, 2.5 ounces) — 92 mg
Halibut (cooked, three ounces) — 80 mg
Mackerel (cooked, 2.5 ounces) — 73 mg
Pollock (cooked, 2.5 ounces) — 64 mg, Nuts, seeds, and legumes all contain moderate to high levels of nutritional magnesium. They make excellent snacks, and many can be incorporated into meals. Some sources of magnesium include:


Almonds (dry-roasted, one ounce) — 80 mgBeans (cooked, 3/4 cup) — 60 to 89 mg
Brazil nuts (without shell, 1/4 cup) — 133 mg
Cashews (dry roasted, one ounce) — 74 mg
Flaxseeds (two tablespoons) — 78 mg
Lentils and split peas (cooked, 3/4 cup) — 52 mg
Peanuts (oil roasted, 1/4 cup) — 63 mg
Peanut butter (two tablespoons) — 49 mg
Pine nuts (without shell, 1/4 cup) — 70 to 86 mg
Pumpkin or squash seeds (without shell, 1/4 cup) — 317 mg
Sesame seeds (two tablespoons) — 56 to 68 mg
Soybeans (cooked, 3/4 cup) — 109 mg
Soy nuts (1/4 cup) — 99 mg
Sunflower seeds (without shell, 1/4 cup) — 119 mg, Grains can provide you with moderate to high levels of magnesium, depending on what types of grains you choose. Always check the nutritional facts on your food packaging and look at each product's recommended serving size. Some grains that are high in magnesium include:


all bran cereal (30 grams) - 94 to 111 mgBread (whole wheat, two slices) — 46 mg
Oatmeal (instant, one packet in water) — 36 mgQuinoa (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 47 mg
Rice, brown (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 42 mg
Rice, white (cooked, 1/2 cup) — 10 mg
Shredded wheat cereal (two large biscuits) — 61 mg
Wheat germ cereal (toasted, 1/4 cup) — 96 mg, Dairy can provide you with low to moderate levels of magnesium; however, dairy substitutes (suitable for vegans or people with lactose intolerance) often have considerably higher levels of nutritional magnesium. If you're looking for dairy or dairy substitute sources of magnesium, try drinking/eating some of the following:Milk (one cup) — 24 to 27 mg
Soy cheese (1.5 ounces) — 114 mg
Soy milk (one cup) — 61 mg
Soy yogurt (3/4 cup) — 70 mg
Yogurt (low fat, eight ounces) — 42 mg

, Magnesium supplements come in a variety of forms. Which one you choose will depend on your personal preferences, such as whether you'd prefer to swallow it in pill/tablet/capsule form or drink it with water. Common forms include:Capsule
Powder (for suspension)
Liquid
Tablet
Capsule
Packet
Syrup

, It's important to talk to your doctor about any supplements before you begin taking them. Different supplements have different recommended dosages, and those recommendations can even vary from one country to another.In the United States, the proper dosing depends on your age.


Adult and teenage males should take between 270 and 400 mg daily.
Adult and teenage females should take between 280 and 300 mg daily.
Pregnant females should take 320 mg daily.
Breast-feeding females should take between 340 and 355 mg daily.
 For instance, children aged one to three years can receive 65 mg of magnesium, children four to eight years of age can receive 110 mg of magnesium, and children over eight years of age can receive 350 mg of magnesium daily.Talk to your pediatrician before administering any nutritional supplements to children under 12 months old.
 Magnesium supplements are generally not harmful by themselves (if taken properly); however, if you are on other medications, magnesium supplements could cause problems. If you are planning on taking over-the-counter supplements (without a prescription), it's best to just avoid the supplements and increase your dietary magnesium. Sometimes these interactions are unavoidable if both the magnesium and the secondary medication are both prescribed by your doctor. If your doctor has prescribed both, they will probably change the dose or the frequency of dosage to reduce the chances of an interaction. Avoid taking over-the-counter magnesium supplements with the following prescriptions:Dabrafenib
Digoxin
Eltrombopag
Elvitegravir
Gefitinib
Ketoconazole
Ledipasvir
Levomethadyl
Licorice
Mycophenolate Mofetil
Mycophenolic Acid
Pazopanib
Phenytoin
Quinine
Raltegravir
Rilpivirine
Vismodegib

, Your doctor may already know what prescription drugs you take (though you may want to remind them just to be safe). It's important not to forget your over-the-counter (OTC) medications or supplements. Many OTC medications contain magnesium, some as a primary ingredient. For this reason, it is important that you let your doctor know about any other over-the-counter medications you take, including the dosage size and frequency, to prevent an accidental overdose of magnesium.Many laxatives (including milk of magnesia) use magnesium as a primary ingredient.
Certain heartburn and acid indigestion medications, like Rolaids and Tums, also include magnesium.
Make sure your over-the-counter medications do not put you over the recommended daily limit of supplemental magnesium.
Keep a list of your medications and take them into your appointments with your doctor and go over them at every visit so that the doctor is aware of what you are taking.
 If you are in good health, then magnesium supplements should be safe for you, provided that you follow the recommended dosage; however, certain health conditions can be affected by magnesium supplements. Avoid taking supplements if you have either or both of the following conditions:Heart disease — Magnesium supplements can worsen this condition.
Kidney problems — Too much magnesium in your blood could make it difficult for your kidneys to adequately perform their job.
 A magnesium deficiency can lead to a number of other medical complications ranging from mild to severe. Your doctor will run laboratory tests to confirm a magnesium deficiency, but you may notice certain signs and symptoms at home. Common symptoms of a magnesium deficiency include:Agitation/irritability
Anxiety
Sleep disorders (including insomnia)
Nausea and/or vomiting
Abnormal heart rate
Low blood pressure
Poor nail growth
Confusion
Restless leg syndrome
Muscle spasms and weakness
Hyperventilation
Seizures

, Magnesium is present in many foods, and if you eat a healthy, balanced diet, you should be getting adequate magnesium; however, some people are susceptible to magnesium deficiencies due to complications from certain medical conditions. The following conditions can cause you to have a magnesium deficiency:Gastrointestinal diseases, including irritable bowel syndrome and ulcerative colitis
Diabetes
Pancreatitis
Hyperthyroidism
Kidney disease
Heavy menstruation
Excessive sweating
Prolonged stress
Anything that requires you to take diuretics on a regular basis<

, In addition to medical conditions, a magnesium deficiency can also be caused by dietary factors. Talk to your doctor about your dietary intake if you've been diagnosed with a magnesium deficiency.


You may have lower magnesium levels if you drink too much coffee, soda, or alcohol on a regular basis.
Eating too much sodium (salt) can also cause you to have lower levels of magnesium., If you suffer from chronic health conditions, you may not realize that magnesium can increase the effectiveness of some medications/treatments.Talk to your doctor to find out if increasing your magnesium intake might improve your health conditions. Common conditions improved by magnesium intake include:Altitude sickness
Anxiety
Asthma
Chronic fatigue syndrome
Diabetes
Fibromyalgia
Hearing loss
Kidney stones
Lyme disease
Migraines/headaches
Osteoporosis
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
Urinary incontinence

