 Follow steps 1-3 for a polished ponytail. After you've curled your hair, barely brush the curls. You're aiming for tight and shiny curls. Gather your ponytail higher up on your head. You can leave your curls in ringlets or, once in a ponytail, brush them up to try to get a flip.;
, Follow steps 1-3 for a polished ponytail. When you get to step four (teasing your hair), tease the top quarter of your hair. Go for lots of volume. Flip the teased section of your hair back and gather it into a ponytail near the back of your head (gently smooth the front of this teased section). The bottom half of your hair will be hanging down. Gather the rest of your hair and pull it into a ponytail as well, directly underneath the top ponytail. Divide the lower ponytail in half and pull the ends in opposite directions to move the ponytail up and tighten it. Tighten the elastic another loop if needed. Take a thin piece of hair, wrap it around both ponytails and secure with a bobby-pin.
 Separate the top quarter of your hair and tease the underside. Flip it over and gently smooth the top; gather this into a ponytail at the back of your head and secure with a hair elastic. Next, create a french braid on both sides of your head, braiding towards the back of your head toward where you secured your top ponytail. Once you've completed both side braids, gather all the hair together into one ponytail.
 Start with a loose ponytail; this style works best with a fairly low ponytail. From the underside of the ponytail, reach up through the opening you've created, grab the entire ponytail, and pull it up and through the opening.


You can also wear this style in a half-ponytail. Gather only the top portion of your hair into a ponytail and flip it through, leaving the bottom half of your hair hanging down.
 Divide your hair into two sections by parting your hair down the middle of your head, and create a ponytail on each side. The position and placement of your pigtails can be optional: experiment with low, loose pigtails (situated low behind your ears), or high, tight pigtails (situated above your ears).


Classic pigtails are symmetrical (the same amount of hair gathered on each side).
This playful style works well for shorter hair that can't be pulled all the way back.
Experiment with a straight centered part, but don't be afraid to try a funkier zigzag part, too.

