 The traditional skort looks like a skirt from the outside but has a pair of shorts tucked away on the inside. The pieces of material are connected at one or more seams, forming a full, single garment.Most traditional skorts are standard short-length or miniskirt-length, so the lower hem falls out anywhere from the mid-thigh to the top of the knee. You may find a few that fall out at or just below the knee, but you will rarely if ever find one that reaches maxi skirt lengths.
Traditional skorts can either have a flat front and back, or they may be styled to look like “wrap around” skirts. A wrap-around skort will have one large panel that wraps all the way around the legs, ending in a flap toward the front.
Since skorts are meant to be semi-casual, they tend to be made from sturdier materials like denim or heavy cotton. Don't expect to find many skorts made from sleek satin or luxurious chiffon.;
, As a general rule, if you wouldn't buy a traditional skort as a skirt based on appearance, you shouldn't buy it. While most skorts tend to have a fairly casual style about them, you should still wear them with clothes that you would match to a casual skirt rather than clothes you would only wear with a ratty pair of shorts.


For the most part, you can make most top styles work for a traditional skort as long as they are fitted and tasteful. Play around with various tank tops and blouses. A nice, fitted t-shirt may also work depending on the style of skort.
Flats and sandals tend to be your best options if you want to keep your outfit looking casual. Avoid sneakers, though, since these might dress the look down a little too much.
Feel free to accessorize this look as desired. The key is to keep things somewhat simple, though. Avoid jewelry that adds too much “bling” or “sparkle,” since it can look a little too formal for a casual look. Big purses and smaller handbags are both good options, but clutches tend to be a little too formal, as well.
 The main problem most women have when wearing a skort is dressing it “young.” The skort itself is a fairly playful garment. If you match it with other garments that are equally youthful or playful, you run the risk of looking trapped in the past. One of the best ways to prevent this from happening is to pair the skort with trendy, sophisticated pieces.


For your top, look at contemporary styles found almost exclusively in the women's department--scoopnecks, blouses with asymmetrical necklines, or shirts with open backs.
Gravitate toward trendy footwear and accessories. Metallic pumps, gladiator sandals, or wedge heels in bold colors all make good options. Chunky bracelets or necklaces with large gems and medallions can also work well.
 Another way to turn the traditional skort into a piece befitting an adult woman is to pair it with classic wardrobe staples. Classic cuts, styles, and colors tend to have a sophisticated, clean look, which can give your overall style a sense of maturity.


Mature patterns can include pinstripes and subtle floral prints, but solid colors are also a great option. Cut and material often make a bigger difference than color and pattern. Button-down cotton blouses have an undeniably classic appeal, but so do solid piece blouses made from luxurious fabrics, like satin or chiffon.
Stick with classic shoes if you want to keep your outfit looking sophisticated. Black stilettos are a great option, but if you're not fond of heels, a patent leather flat can be just as effective.
 If you do want to get playful with your traditional skort, a good way to do it is to wear trendy patterns or trendy colors. These patterns can either be on the skort itself or on the top you pair with it.


As a general rule, restrict the pattern to one part of your outfit—either the skort, top, or shoes. Do not mix and match your patterns, since doing so will usually clash.
If you're looking for a bold blouse pattern, try on large floral print, large polka dots, or bright stripes. When you're feeling a bit fearsome, you could even slip on leopard or snake print.
For a bold shoe choice, animal print and stripes are usually your best bets. You might also want to consider a shoe in a bold yet solid color.
 There are two factors that could classify a skort as “sporty,” and those would be material and cut.


When material is the key factor, the skorts will have a traditional skirt-style cut but will be made of material typically used for active wear, like spandex.
When cut is the key factor, the skorts can be made from active wear materials like spandex or more versatile materials like cotton, but they only look like a skirt from the front. From the back, the shorts part of the skort can be seen very clearly.
 The general consensus in the fashion world is that sporty skorts should only be worn when you are actually playing sports or doing a similar form of physical activity. These skorts are a little more fashion forward than plain spandex shorts, but they still don't have enough flair to wear around in other contexts.
 Since you'll mostly be wearing this skort when you plan on working up a sweat, the rest of your clothes should be chosen with the same purpose. Even so, you can dress the skort down by choosing more standard, casual pieces of active wear or dress it up by picking out other trendy options.


Tank tops work great with these skorts, especially those with racerback straps. Any clothes you would usually wear when physically active would theoretically work, though, as long as they are fitted and flatter your body type.
Sneakers are the shoe of choice here, but you don't have to restrict yourself to anything dull. Consider adding more flair to your outfit with neon shoes.
 This is a fairly new style of skort, so many people may not be aware of it yet. Like the traditional style, this skort appears to be a skirt from the front, and the shorts are hidden completely inside the garment. Unlike the traditional skort, though, the Zara skort looks like a wrap-around skirt, and the front of it dips up at a jagged angle. As a result, it looks as though a triangular portion of material has been cut out from the front of the garment.


The original version of this skirt was made by Zara, a Spanish clothing brand. Other designers have duplicated this asymmetrical look, but the style itself is still commonly referred to by the Zara label that pioneered it.
Due to the folds and sharp angle of this skort, some have also dubbed it the “origami skort.”

, Since this asymmetrical skort is already on the edgy side of fashion, it works well with other pieces that are just as fresh and unconventional. To prevent the look from getting too out of control, just make sure that the colors and cuts coordinate with each other. If you have a bold pattern on top, go for a Zara skort in a solid color, and vice versa.


For something funky yet casual, wear a simple scoop neck t-shirt with your Zara skort. Opt for funky, edgy accessories, like gladiator sandals, chunky bracelets, and large gemstone rings.
If you want to make things funky yet dressy, consider a metallic satin blouse or tank, paired with tall heels and one notable piece of jewelry.
 As a trendy item, the Zara skort carries an air of sophistication with it. To draw its sophisticated side out, pair the skort with tops and shoes that come in classic cuts, patterns, and styles.


A simple button-down shirt works well, but so does a sleek, elegant blouse made with luxurious materials like chiffon, silk, or satin.
If your top is classic enough, your shoes can either be classic or funky. For a classic option, consider simple black stilettos. For something a little funkier, try a metallic pump or gladiator sandals.
Keep your jewelry looking classic and sophisticated. Think along the lines of simple gold or silver chains. You can mix some gemstones in, as well, but avoid anything that looks too flashy.
 If done right, you can pay homage to the skorts sporty roots by pairing the Zara skort with clothing that looks a little sporty. Avoid “work out” clothes made of spandex or similar materials and opt for clothes that look sporty in cut and style, but not material.


For your top, try wearing a simple cotton tank top, a jersey supporting your favorite sports team, or a moderately oversized hoodie. When wearing an oversized top, consider wearing a tank top underneath it, allowing the strap of the tank to be visible underneath the wide neck of the shirt.
You can dress the look up by wearing single strap stilettos or dress it down further with fun neon sneakers.
Keep your accessories to a minimum for this look. A baseball cap works well, as does simple jewelry—think bangle bracelets and pendant chain necklaces.
 As a result, you can have a lot of fun playing around with different colors and patterns in the rest of your outfit.


Try color blocking. Choose a skort with a bold hue and match it with a top in a solid, complementary color.
You can also play with other color combinations. Slip on a nude colored top or opt for a semi-monochromatic color scheme.
Nearly any pattern can be matched with this sort of skort as long as the cut of the top flatters your body type. Consider nautical stripes, flannel, pinstripes, polka dots, or floral print.
 The Zara skort is trendy and semi-dressy. Denim, on the other hand, is classic and casual. The two may seem to be complete opposites, but the major difference between the two is what makes them work surprisingly well together.


Mix in denim by wearing a denim button-down shirt. You can keep it buttoned up or wear it open and over a simple fitted tank top.
Alternatively, carry a denim handbag or wear denim flats.
Stick with one denim piece per outfit to keep the balance of trendy and classic in check.

