 You can purchase exhaust patch kits from your local auto parts store, but cutting up a piece of an aluminum can will actually do just as good as job at serving as a patch for a larger exhaust leak. After scrubbing and cleaning the area, determine how large the patch will need to be to cover the leak and leave at least a half inch or so of extra material beyond the hole itself.If the area that needs to be patched is larger than about three inches, that portion of the exhaust will likely need to be replaced.
If you purchase a patch kit, make sure to read the directions to assess the size of a leak the kit can fix.
 Use a pair of heavy duty scissors to cut your aluminum can into a patch large enough to cover the leak. You may also choose to wrap the can around the pipe. For smaller leaks, you can simply cut a circle of aluminum that is a half inch larger in diameter than the hole.You may want to wear gloves while cutting a can or aluminum patch to avoid being cut by sharp edges.
Wrapping the can or patch all the way around the pipe will provide the best seal.
 Just as you would seal a leak with epoxy, mix it together and apply it to the pipe around the leak. Make sure to apply enough epoxy to create a seal for the patch, but don’t apply so much that the epoxy begins to drip into the exhaust piping.Apply the epoxy to an area surrounding the leak that is equal size to the patch you are applying.
If you are going to wrap the patch all the way around the pipe, apply most of the epoxy to the area around the leak and a lighter coat all the way around the pipe.
 Either place the small patch directly over the hole or wrap a large patch all the way around the pipe. If wrapping the patch around the pipe, make sure the middle of the patch is over the leak itself.It’s okay if some of the epoxy squeezes out the sides of the patch when you apply it.
Make sure none of the leak extends beyond the sides of the patch.
 Use a wooden dowel to apply more epoxy to the edges of the patch. You may even choose to coat the patch itself with epoxy. This will help hold the patch in place as the epoxy dries while also creating a more solid seal to prevent any exhaust from leaking.Make sure to coat the perimeter of the patch with epoxy at the least to ensure there are no pinhole leaks.
If you wrapped the entire pipe with a patch, you do not need to coat the entire patch, but pay special attention to wear the patch meets on the opposite side of the pipe from the leak.
 If you wrapped the patch all the way around the pipe, use two hose clamps to secure it in place and ensure a tight seal. Place one hose clamp on either side of the leak on the pipe, then use a socket wrench or flat head screw driver to tighten the clamps into place over the patch.The hose clamps will help ensure a tight seal along with the patch and epoxy.
You may want to clip the excess ends off of the hose clamps once you are done.

