 Every state has statutes determining criminal and civil liability for individuals that improperly go onto another person's private property. In addition, each state's trespassing laws will dictate how hunters can and cannot interact with privately owned land. While every state is different, there are some common themes that will help you decide what you need to do to legally keep hunters off your property.;
,


In a state like Minnesota, hunters can enter onto private land for the purpose of hunting unless the land has been posted, the land is agricultural in nature, or if you have explicitly told the hunter to leave.
In Florida, a hunter can be charged with trespassing for simply firing a projectile (i.e., a bullet) across your private property.
In many states (e.g., Minnesota) there are exceptions to trespassing laws that allow hunters to enter onto your land in certain situations. Often, these exceptions allow hunters to retrieve wounded wildlife or a hunting dog., If you are required to post your property in order to keep hunters out, you must place signs or leave signals that tell possible hunters they are not allowed. If your state requires you to post, you need to follow the requirements set out in the law. For example, in Minnesota, you must place signs at 1,000 foot (300 m) intervals (500 foot intervals in wooded areas) that state "no trespassing" or similar words. The letters on the signs must be at least two inches high and the sign must have your contact information on it. You may also post signs at every corner of your property as well as at every property access point.In other states, for example Virginia, posting can be accomplished by painting an aluminum colored line at least two inches in width and eight inches in length on posts on your property boundaries.Most states that require posting will require you to complete this task once per year.
 Some states consider a fence to be another adequate indication that your land is not to be hunted on. For example, in California and West Virginia, hunters cannot enter onto private land for the purpose of hunting if a fence has been erected around it.Even if your state's laws do not identify fencing as an adequate indication, putting one around your property is a great way to deter hunters from coming onto your land.
 If wild game is not likely to be found on your property, hunters will not want to visit. Therefore, if you can keep deer, pheasant, duck, or any other wild game off your private property, you will disincentivize hunters from trespassing. To do this, remove as many wild game attractions as possible. For example, deer eat hostas and other plant life that you might plant in your gardens or elsewhere on your property. If you keep deer food off of your property, they will be less likely to wander in.


Also, in many states, it is illegal to purposefully feed wild game on your property., A lot of hunters will use private land when there is no activity on it and they do not know how to contact the landowner. However, if you are present on your land regularly, hunters will most likely stay off your land or at least ask for your permission to hunt there. Try things like spending time outside, keeping your property presentable and clean, and having lights on in dwellings. If you do not live on the land you are having problems with, go there at least once a week if possible and walk around.
 If you find a hunter on your private land, you should ask them to leave immediately. If no damage has been caused by the hunter, it is usually best to tell him or her that they are on private property that does not allow hunting. Most hunters will respect you and leave your property right away. If they do, this simple conversation may end your trespassing problem without having to involve law enforcement.


In states that allow hunting on private land without permission, you may actually be required to tell the hunters to leave before you can take any legal action against them. For example, in Minnesota, if you do not post your land and it is not agricultural, a hunter can legally hunt there without your permission. However, if you ask the hunter to leave, that hunter is not allowed to return to your land for one year.In addition, a lot of law enforcement agencies will be reluctant to press charges against a trespassing hunter that has not caused any damage, unless that hunter has been asked to leave at least once before., If hunters return after being asked to leave, or if your property is properly posted, you might choose to call your local law enforcement agency's non-emergency line to report the trespassing. By using the non-emergency line, you are avoiding taking valuable law enforcement resources away from other crimes that may be occurring. Also, you will be engaging the trespasser in a less adversarial way.


The non-emergency line is also a great tool if you do not catch the trespasser in the act and there is no ongoing emergency to report. For example, if you go to your land and you see trash, shotgun shells, and/or bullet casings, but you do not see the hunter, you may choose to call the non-emergency line to report the crime.
When you call the non-emergency line, you will be asked to give a detailed description of the trespasser, what they were doing, and when it occurred. If you did not see the trespasser, you may be asked to identify what leads you to believe someone was on your land (e.g., tire marks, shell casings, etc.). When the phone call is completed, an official report will be created and a law enforcement officer will usually visit you within a few hours. Work with the official in order to get them as much information as possible about the trespassing.
 If you do not want to call the non-emergency line, you can usually file a non-emergency report online with your local law enforcement agency. Usually, these reports can only be filed in certain instances and for certain crimes. Be sure you check with your local law enforcement agency to ensure this is a valid option for you.


For example, in Gwinnett County, Georgia, you can submit an online complaint if the trespassing took place in that county, there are no known suspects, and there is no physical evidence. If you meet these requirements, you can click on the report button that corresponds to criminal trespass. You will then be asked to supply as much information as possible then submit the report., You should only call 9-1-1 if the hunter is currently trespassing on your land and is posing a danger to you, your family, or your property. For example, if the hunter is pointing his or her firearm toward your home or toward your livestock (if you live on a farm), you may want to call 9-1-1. When you call 9-1-1, calmly explain what is happening and ask that a law enforcement member be dispatched to the area immediately. When law enforcement arrives, let them handle the trespasser and do not engage until asked to do so.
 Once you have used any of the methods to report trespassing hunters, be sure you follow up whenever necessary to ensure the problem does not persist. If you handled the matter on your own, be sure you take the time to visit your land and make sure the trespasser has not returned. If you have involved local law enforcement, keep track of their progress and make sure you are willing to take the steps necessary to ensure the problem will not occur again. If law enforcement is pursuing criminal charges, you may be asked to testify against the hunter in court.


If a hunter is found guilty of criminal trespass, he or she will usually pay a fine and have their hunting license revoked for a period of years.
If a hunter is found liable for civil trespass, he or she will usually have to pay damages., Allowing hunters to use your land can be a positive experience for both parties. Hunters can be an important piece of the conservation puzzle, they may be willing to pay lease fees to use your land, and they may clean up your land while they are hunting.Depending on the state you live in, permitting hunters to hunt on your land may need to be done explicitly or permission may be implied. If you live in a state where posting is required to keep hunters off your land (e.g., Minnesota), permission may be implied if you do not post. However, if you live in a state where permission is always required (e.g., Alabama), hunters will need to speak with you before they can hunt on your land.


Make sure you know what type of state you live in so you can help hunters access your land during hunting season.
 If you are going to allow hunting on your land, consider posting signs around your property that ask hunters to contact you before entering your land. By doing this, you can control how many hunters are on your property at any one time and you can make sure everyone on your land is in a safe environment. For example, if you know there are hunters on your property on a specific day, you can stay off the property and keep others away. This will ensure nobody is hurt by rogue gunfire or other accidents.


Some states have forms that hunters can fill out and bring to you. These forms are a great way to keep track of hunting activities on your property. When a hunter uses one of these forms, they will fill it out and bring it to you prior to hunting on your land. The form will include where your property is located, when the hunter can hunt, and any restrictions you place on their activities. You should keep a copy for yourself and the hunter is required by law to carry it with them whenever they are on your land., Restricting what hunters can do on your land is a great way to create a safe hunting environment and will ensure wild game are hunted responsibly. For example, you might dictate that hunters can only take a certain amount of wildlife each day. You might also dictate the type of wildlife a hunter can take (e.g., antlerless elk). Finally, and maybe most importantly, you might restrict where hunters can hunt. While the law requires hunters to stay a certain distance from dwellings, you might ask that hunters stay even further back from your home or barns. Also, if you have multiple people hunting your property on the same day, you should tell each party where the other will be hunting and where each party is able to go.
 Each year you should keep a file for all of the hunting related materials you receive from hunters. This will include permission cards, written letters, notices, and anything else you get. This information may become important if you have a dispute with a hunter regarding their use of your land. The more information you have the stronger your case will be.

