 Those with histrionic personality disorder often use threats of self-harm or suicide as a dramatic action to gain attention. However, some people with HPD actually engage in self-harm and self-mutilation to gain attention. If you feel the urge to commit suicide or harm yourself, you should call 911 or have a loved one take you to your local emergency room immediately.If you plan on trying to commit suicide, but not actually kill yourself, you should also seek help from a loved one or a medical professional.
If you find that you are hurting yourself physically to gain attention, like cutting yourself, causing yourself to bruise or bleed, or purposefully getting into accidents, you should see your doctor.
 People with histrionic personality disorder may develop depression or anxiety disorders. This stems from unhappiness due to problems in relationships, perceived inferiority, and discontent due to boredom. Your therapist or doctor may diagnose you with one of these other conditions during treatment.Depression or anxiety disorders are treated using medication. Medication is usually only prescribed for a temporary amount of time.
More commonly, patients with personality disorders have other comorbid conditions such and addiction, depression, and mood disorders. Doctors have to look at the big picture in treating you. If you are suffering from addiction you my need rehabilitation. Further, you may need to be put on medication for depression, anxiety, psychosis, or problems with your mood. This is the standard way to go about treating patients with psychiatric illness

, A common pitfall with the treatment of histrionic personality disorder is that people with the disorder don’t consistently do their treatment. They will go to therapy only until they are bored, and then they will stop.Often, people with HPD will make up problems when they go to therapy, then stop going to therapy after that initial thrill is over.
To get results and properly treat your HPD, you should follow through with your treatment.

