 Choose a positive vocabulary of winning words. Osteen says, "You must make a decision that you are going to move on. It won't happen automatically. You will have to rise up and say, ‘I don’t care how hard this is, I don’t care how disappointed I am, I’m not going to let this get the best of me'." But, we can say with Paul:



"My testimony of God to you is not with brilliance of speech or wisdom. For I resolved to know nothing while I was with you except Jesus Christ and him crucified." (1 Corinthians 2).;
, If we choose to not let common, daily chores overwhelm us, they won't. Work out your own future in Christ. We can choose what will happen to us, to a great extent.


Say, "I can handle this," whatever it may be for you. If you think, and take action as if you can handle something, you eventually can. If you withdraw, or back away, thinking you can't, then you won't be able to. Like the famous quote says, "He who says he can, and he who says he can't are both right."

, Osteen says, "Keep in mind, hurting people often hurt other people, as a result of their own pain. If somebody is rude and inconsiderate, you can almost be certain that person has some unresolved issues inside."


This can help you to have compassion on those you may have otherwise not tried to understand. If you consider where they are coming from, which Osteen talks about, you will be much more able to give them grace.
Rather than focus on what someone did to you, ask yourself instead WHY he or she did that, as in what is the person's motivation or past experience. This will help tremendously for you to bring peace with you, and for you to be better at being a peace-maker.
 Osteen says, "God knows your value; He sees your potential. You may not understand everything you are going through right now. But, hold your head up high, knowing that God is in control, and he has a great plan and purpose for your life." Often times, things happen to us that we don't understand. It could be easy to think that there is either something wrong with us, or that God does not really love us. But, sometimes God causes, or lets things happen for reasons that we might not understand until 20 years from now.


We need to trust that God really does have a great plan for our lives and that he will "work all things together for good for those who love the Lord" as the Bible says that He will.
 Learn to bounce up in life. Osteen says, "No matter how many times you get knocked down, keep getting back up." Dust yourself off; shake off self-centered self-criticism, and try again to walk in Christ.


Select a winning chosen attitude. Your attitude can be an internal enemy, opposing you and trying to sit you out of the game of life. But, don't let your feelings keep you sitting on the floor or warming the bench.
Replace bad choices with good ones. Be active and don't let the water of life stagnate within you. You can let it flow through you, with God's help.
Share your positive emotions with others. Smile and be cheerful; choose joy. Overcome by passing your blessings forward, making assists for others to make a goal, and so multiply your own contributions in your family or any team in the game of life.
 Osteen says, "It is important for a husband to understand that his words have tremendous power in his wife’s life. He needs to bless her with words." And vice versa -- behind every good/bad person there is a good/bad woman, whether it is the mom, grandmother or wife...


This goes for any relationship in life. We need to know that our words have creative power. We can either speak life into people, or we can blow or suck the life out of them with our words. We can speak Truth of them and so bless them, or we can gossip about them and put them down, and so curse them.
 That changes what we see. Look for your positive futures/good goals in work or play. Contribute to the futures of others to an extent, simply by the the words you say and what you do, good or bad... Choose what God did -- as when He spoke, the world was created. Every human being is made in God's image, and our words, setting goals, working toward our goals all have great power over, under, around and through our entire lives.
 Limit distractions from thinking. Put the phone, TV, radio, music and candy bowl away. Be present in your life's sweet spot. Be available to yourself. Plan. Decide. Start. Arbitrarily decide to be wise. Arbitrarily choose to be happy and contented by always improving and making progress.


Get a notebook and a pen, or a recorder. Be still and stare into space for a few moments to let your brain draw connections to insights and creativity. Write it or record it. By being still, you make a place and time to hear something important emerging in your thoughts. The Lord says, "Be still, and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth." (Psalm 46:10).
 Change your thoughts to positive ones, when gloomy thoughts come -- replace them. Think on good and better thoughts. Reject the bad ideas.


Expect positive wisdom; don't be surprised by it, and allow it to flow as much or more than you prepare for. God's word can be, and is, near you -- even in your mouth. Write or record good thoughts. Read over or listen to your thoughts and see what else flows from that.
Apply good ideas to your life, in a pattern or plan. Make it count. Don't jump around and skip important issues.

