 A number of online retailers sell this perennial as a plant, but it can easily be started from a root-like tuber known as a rhizome. Gardeners who plan on starting their own plant should select an organic rhizome or one that has been obtained from their local health food store.


These are less likely to have been sprayed with chemicals (GMO, antibiotics...) that will keep them from sprouting and limit one’s success. If gardeners suspect this could be the case, they will need to soak their rhizome for a few hours in lukewarm water to remove the chemicals.
Choose plump, healthy pieces that have greenish eye spots that sort of resemble roots on their nodules for best results.;
, The entire root can be planted as it is or gardeners may choose to cut their rhizome into pieces measuring between 1 and 2 inches long, each of which should have an eye of its own.
 Culinary gingers can be started indoors in cooler climates and gradually moved outside full time when temperatures consistently reach above 50 °F (10 °C).


Gardeners in warmer areas may choose to sit their pots outside in the spring instead. These plants will sprout on their own, but it may take them longer to get started than those started indoors.
 Ginger grows perfectly fine in ordinary potting soil and also in most yards. However, if drainage is a problem in one’s yard, sand can be added for better results.
 These plants reach anywhere from two to four feet in height and should be grown in dappled sunlight, which mimics their native environment.


Culinary ginger will also perform well if it has bright sunshine in the morning and bright, dappled shade in the evening.
Growing ginger in full sun can cause the plants to struggle and the leaves to turn brown at the tips.
 If you are growing these plants in containers, it is best to use a large plastic pot. This will allow the edible rhizome to reach a much larger size than it would have otherwise done in a smaller container.


Using plastic pots helps hold in moisture, which in turn causes the root to become plumper.
 These perennials should be watered regularly and not allowed to dry out completely, because they like damp soil. Do not stop watering the plant until the leaves have died back.


Until this point, the ginger specimen should be watered just enough to keep the soil from completely drying out.
 This plant is largely resistant to humidity as well as insect pests and diseases.
 As with most plants, ginger benefits from light applications of fertilizer during the growing season. It can also be watered with spoiled milk to improve the nutrient quality of the soil and increase the plumpness of the rhizomes.
 Ginger goes dormant during the cooler months, even in its native habitat. Gardeners should be aware of this fact and not get stressed out if their plant dies back to the roots.


During the dormancy period, rhizomes can be left in their containers in a location where the temperature will not drop below 50 °F (10 °C).
Alternatively, the dormant rhizomes can be dug up and stored in a warm location. This method is ideal for gardeners that wish to recycle the same pots for winter growing or if their specimens are in areas where winter temperatures may result in the death of the plant.
 This allows the rhizome plenty of time to fatten up before being used. If one wants fresh ginger before that point, small portions can be sliced off using a handheld spade.


This is another good reason to grow these plants in plastic containers because gardening implements and terracotta pots don’t mix well.

