 It can be difficult to ask your parents about their budget, especially if they are embarrassed about their financial struggles. But if your parents are not able to maintain their finances on their own, you may need to get involved in the household budget and help them figure out how they can increase their savings and reduce their sending.Helping your parents to manage their expenses may be more important when your parents are elderly and cannot take care of their finances themselves. It may then be your responsibility to assist your parents in ways to save money and maintain their existing standard of living with the income they have.
 If your parents agree to let you look at the household budget, you should examine your parents’ set expenses for the household every month against their income every month. Look for any expenses that seem high or unnecessary, such as monthly home insurance payments, cable payments, or heating and electricity payments. You may then want to suggest that your parents consider reducing these costs to save more money every month.You should also look for excessive spending on secondary items like clothing, household goods, and groceries. Try to find ways to reduce your parents’ spending on these items, such as suggesting they buy second hand clothing, cheaper household goods, and stretch out their allotted spending for groceries.
There are also government based programs that provide food benefits to struggling families. Consider telling your parents about these programs so they can get assistance on food bills and save money on their food costs every month.
 Talk to your parents about how you can help them save money month to month and how you can best contribute to your parents’ budget. This may be agreeing to take on a part-time job or reducing food costs for the household by cooking on the nights your parents are both working late. Work with your parents to come up with several adjustments you can make together to help them save money.