 You will never make a good player if suddenly you move from prop to center. Each position has its own requirements and needs, and you won't become a better player if you switch positions just as you're learning one of them well.


You should, however, have a basic understanding of each of your teammate's positions. Rugby is a fluid, fast game, and you can best support your teammates if you know what they're trying to do.
If you're uncomfortable with your role on the field, check out diagrams of each position and its role.
;
, Do not try to be a hero, just play the game and do what your position is designed to do. There are 30 players on the field at any time in a game of rugby -- making it nearly impossible for one player to try and win the game on their own. Successful rugby teams are filled with players who know their role and stick to it.


Each position is designed to compliment the others. If you decide you want to start rucking as a scrum-half, you may win a few more lose balls. Your fly-half, however, will lose the connection that gets him the ball, effectively destroying your offense.
Everyone will leave position occasionally for a tackle or run. The key is choosing your moment wisely -- will you be putting your team at a disadvantage by leaving?, If your teammate is on a run, the best place to be is a few yards behind them and a few yards to their side. This makes you a viable, legal passing target at all times. If someone is already there, set up alongside them, providing a quick passing outlet should they get the ball. The best teams set up these small diagonal passing lines almost instantly.


If there is already a small line of players, stay just behind them, ready to ruck if one goes down, or take a short offload pass as they're falling., The best way to improve your on-field intelligence is to keep tabs on everything. Are you in line with your teammates? Are the opponents overloading more people on one side of the field for an attack? You should keep your head up on tackles too -- watching the contact the whole time to safely place your head and adjust to defenders.Grab any loose ball you see, or fall on it and place it for a ruck.
Are you in step with your teammates? Make sure your lines are tight and there are no holes.
 In rugby, any team can grab possession at almost any time, and offense switches to defense on the fly. This makes it much more crucial to hold onto the ball, tiring the other team on defense until a good scoring opportunity arises. While all good teams take occasional risks, the majority of their efforts are spent keeping the ball.


If you don't have any support, slow down and wait for it. You can keep the ball in the ruck a little longer while your team catches up, or skip out on a risky run up the sideline until you have someone to pass to or ruck for you.
Only make passes you know will connect. If you don't have a good pass, simply go into contact, let your teammates ruck, and reset.
Don't be worried if you go 3-4 plays without gaining a lot of ground. Being on defense is much more tiring than offense, and you'll expose a hole eventually.
 Beginners often aren't sure when they should join the ruck, and will often either jump into every single ruck they find or never join in at all. Knowing when to bind on and help your team can be tough to decide, but there are some guidelines:


If you're winning a ruck as a team, don't join in. Similarly, if you've already lost or almost lost a ruck, get out of there and defend the rest of the field.
If you see a teammate get tackled there are more defenders than teammates, get over quickly in order to defend possession.
If you're near a stalemating ruck, throw yourself in to turn the tide.
Scrum-halfs and fly-halfs, with a few exceptions (losing a crucial ruck, the only player near enough to join) should stay out of most rucks -- they are too essential for organizing the offense and defense to be rucking., The biggest hurdle for most beginner rugby players isn't a skill, idea, or trick -- it's confidence. While confidence factors into all sports, in rugby the knowledge that you can take a hit (or hit an opponent) and be okay is not something everyone is born with. It takes time to get used to the physicality of rugby. However, the ability to give it your all, and not to slow down or loosen up before contact, will actually make you safer in the long run.


Gain confidence by tacking hits in practice. Start at 50% speed, or by tackling from your knees, and gradually work up to full contact.
Think of going through an opponent, not at him. Keep your feet moving at all times to drive through tackles and rucks with ease.
Mentally prepare yourself for games and hits. Remind yourself that you've done this before, and that playing soft or trying to avoid contact will just lead to more injuries., Watch any team that you like, from the best teams in the world like South Africa, Australia and New Zealand to the premier club teams in England, France, New Zealand and Australia. Watch out for several thing in particular:


Where is your position on defense? Where are they on offense?
How does each team dictate the pace of the game? When they attack, do they go wide or jam big players up the gut?
When and where are the appropriate times to kick?
When is it best to try a last-minute pass and when is it best to just go down?

