 You may want your partner to talk more or be more social, but trying to change them is not the way to maintain a relationship with a quiet person.Accept that they are a quiet person and love them for it the same way they accept and love you.


Avoid trying to force your partner to be more talkative or try to make them feel bad for being a quiet person. For instance, don’t tell you partner, “Our relationship would be better if you talked to me more. Why don’t you talk more?” Remember that there is nothing wrong with being a quiet person and criticizing them for being quiet will only cause them to resent you.
Show them you respect and appreciate who they are. Say something like, “I know you’re a quiet person. I appreciate the conversations you sharing with me.”
Reflect on what drew you to your partner in the first place. What qualities of theirs did/do you admire?

, One way you can maintain a relationship with a quiet person is to make sure that you have other activities and people in your life. This way, when your partner needs quiet time, but you want to be social, you will have someone else to talk to and other things to do.


Continue participating in the activities that you were involved in before your relationship started. For example, if you play the cello, continue taking your lessons.
Hang out with your own friends on a regular basis. For instance, have a weekly ‘girls night’ so you can catch up with your female friends and give your partner some quiet time.
Remember that you and your partner are not there to complete each other, but to enhance each other’s lives. Maintain your individual time and interests.
 Sometimes people can use silence as a weapon in relationships. Ignoring you or barely talking to you can be a way of controlling you.You can maintain a relationship with a quiet person if you determine that they aren’t using silence as a way to control you.


Notice if your partner is talkative and social with other people and only seems quiet with you. For example, does she regularly hang out with and talk to her friends, but can barely say ‘hi’ to you?
Pay attention if you partner ignores you or gives you the silent treatment to get you to do what they want. For instance, if he won’t speak to you unless you agree to go to a party with him, then he is being manipulative.
If your partner is not normally quiet, then taking on this trait might be a sign that something is wrong. Seek help for your partner if this is not normal behavior for them.

