 Breath control is important for any form of exercise, but in a fight, it's essential — you want to be able to move, duck, block, and kick as quickly as possible without running out of breath or getting the wind knocked out of you, Take deep, steady breaths when your opponent is out of reach. Breathe in as you prepare to make your kick, then exhale forcefully or vocalize (grunt, shout, etc.) each time you kick (or get kicked). Pace yourself as you fight — if you feel yourself running out of energy, back off and take deep breaths to refocus and recoup your stamina.









Paying attention to your breathing isn't just for improving your focus and stamina — there's actually scientific evidence to suggest that exhaling or vocalizing during physical exertion (like kicking) can make it possible to exert more force.;
, In karate and most other forms of martial arts, your "guard" is your basic fighting stance — the way you hold your body in between making your own blows and blocking your opponent's. Your guard makes it easy to strike quickly and powerfully and to react to your opponent's attacks, so it's the ideal place to start before making a roundhouse kick.


If you are right handed, to get in your guard, first take a big step forward with your left leg, letting your right foot naturally pivot so it points out to the side. Make two fists and raise your hands so that both arms are bent at the elbow and your forearms are raised slightly. Your left fist should be higher and farther forward than your right, which should be close to your waist.If you're left handed, simply reverse the directions above: step forward with your right foot, drop your left foot back, and so on.
 If you're practicing roundhouse kicks by yourself, you can take as long as you want to carefully execute your moves. This isn't the case in an actual fight, where letting down your guard momentarily can give your opponent the opening they need to strike. Even if you're not practicing with a partner, get in the habit of keeping your hands up before and after you make your kick. When you do eventually need to use your moves in a fight, having your hands up by default will make you less vulnerable to your opponent's attacks and make it much easier to respond to the attacks they do make with your own.
 As you raise your rear leg for the kick, bend it back upon itself so that the back of the calf is almost touching the thigh. Bring the bent leg up so that the knee is pointing out to the side. You'll probably need to lean your upper body in the opposite direction for balance. At this point, the muscle in the leg is bunched up and the lower leg is "chambered", ready to deliver a quick, crushing kick.








If you haven't done a roundhouse kick before, you may find it tricky to balance on one foot with your leg out to the side. Luckily, there are a number of simple balance-improving exercises (like standing on one foot while waiting in line at the supermarket) that are easy to work into your daily routine.
 Pivot on your lower foot, turning your body so that your kicking leg moves toward your target. As you do this, extend the leg in a sudden but smooth motion, "snapping" it forward. You should make contact with the target before your leg is fully extended. In other words, your knee should still be somewhat bent when your leg hits the target — this delivers maximum power.









Try to connect with the top of your foot, the ball of your foot, or your instep. Alternatively, you can use your shinbone — this can be especially devastating to your opponent, but can be very painful for you as well., As you make contact, roll through your target. Let your leg deliver its full power, penetrating a few inches into the body. Quickly retract your leg to its folded position. At this point, you can either "chamber" the leg for another kick or return it to the floor.









The less time your foot or leg is in contact with your target's body, the better. Quick, "snappy" kicks transfer lots of energy in the form of damaging shock, while slower kicks use some of their energy to push the target, which is less damaging.
 The basic roundhouse kick detailed above is great for beginners, but it's just one of many possible variations on the move. To increase your versatility during a fight, try learning one or more variations on the basic roundhouse kick. Once mastered, these special moves can give your kick extra speed or power, giving you an edge in a close fight. See the sections below for more detailed explanations of each guard.









Use a "side-kick" technique for a quick, direct attack. In a fight between experienced martial artists, speed can be a huge factor in determining the winner. Using this stance can help you release (and recover from) your kick with extra quickness all while advancing on your opponent, allowing you to set the pace of the fight.
Use a muay thai kicking technique for power and strength. Sudden, powerful blows can decide entire fights. For situations that call for sudden, forceful blows, using this muay thai kick style, which prioritizes the strength of the kick, can be a wise choice.
Use a boxing guard to protect yourself. The basic karate-inspired martial arts guard stance above offers a balanced platform for delivering and blocking blows, but in street fights, bare-knuckle brawls, and self-defense scenarios, it may be hard to use it to block a flurry of punches to the head or body. In these cases, a boxing-inspired guard may make for a more practical defense.

