 Plates of the size used as covers for microscope slides would be ideal.;
, Once the plates are cleaned, handle them only by the edges.
 Do this by touching the surfaces with the leads from a multimeter. Once you have established which side of each plate is the conductive side, place them side by side, one plate conductive side up and the other conductive side down.
 This will hold the plates in place for the next step.


Place the tape along either of the long side of the plates to overlap 1 millimeter (1/25 inch) of the edges.
Place tape over the outer 4 to 5 millimeters (1/5 inch) of the conductive side up plate.
 Put 2 drops on the conductive side up plate, then spread it evenly over the plate surface. Allow the titanium dioxide to cover the conductive-side-down plate.


Before applying the titanium dioxide solution, you may first want to coat the plates with tin oxide.
 Now you'll treat the 2 plates differently.


Place the conductive-side-up plate on an electric hot plate overnight to bake the titanium dioxide onto the plate.
Clean the titanium dioxide off the conductive-side-down plate and place it where it won't collect dirt.
 The dye can be made from raspberry, blackberry or pomegranate juice or by brewing a tea from red hibiscus petals.
, Do this while the titanium dioxide-coated plate is soaking.
 Mark the side that doesn't conduct with a plus sign (+).
 You can do this by going over the conductive side with a pencil or by applying a graphite lubricant. Cover the entire surface.
 Rinse it twice, first with de-ionized water and then with alcohol. Blot dry after rinsing with a clean tissue.
 The plates should be slightly offset, about 5 millimeters (1/5 inch). Use binder clips on the long edges to hold them in place.
 Let the solution soak through the plate coatings so they're covered completely. You may want to open the binder clips and gently lift 1 of the plates up to allow the solution to spread over the entire surface.


The iodide solution will enable electrons to flow from the titanium-dioxide-coated plate to the carbon-coated plate when the cell is exposed to a light source. Such a solution is called an electrolyte.
,, This plate is the solar cell's negative electrode, or cathode.
 This plate is the solar cell's positive electrode, or anode. (In a previous step, you marked it with a plus sign on its non-conductive side.)

, In a school classroom, this can be done by laying the cell on top of the lens of an overhead projector. In a home setting, another light source, such as a spotlight or the sun itself, can be substituted.
 Do this both before and after the cell is exposed to light.

