 Food puzzles are toys that release food if played with correctly. These can keep your cat engaged with something positive. It will also wear it out, so that it will be less likely to cause trouble later.


There are many designs for food puzzles. Start out with an easier one so that your cat can get interested in the concept and become invested enough to do harder puzzles.;
, Cats naturally tend to stay awake during the night, making it easy for them to get into trouble when you are out cold. Playing before bed will wear them out and increase the odds that they spend the night in peaceful slumber, instead of hoarding your belongings in the closet.Every cat is interested in a different type of play. Some like to be chased or to play fight. Others like to run after toys that you roll on the floor or toss around.
Cats love new things. So, you should regularly get new toys, rotate toys, or keep toys away from your cat when you aren’t using them. This will ensure that your cat continues to be interested in the toys.
Popular toys include cloth mice stuffed with catnip, laser pointers, and anything with a long string.
Cats also love to take advantage of new household objects, like boxes and bags., Cats love to climb. Having a high perch for your cat to jump onto will keep it happy, engaged, and tired. Cat trees can be purchased online and in most pet stores to give cats more vertical space.Place the tree directly by a window for optimal results. If you place the tree somewhere the cat doesn't like to be, it won't ever use it.If you have multiple cats, be sure that the tree has enough platforms and scratching posts for each cat.
 Cats need to scratch. Having a couple of things around the house to scratch on—that aren’t your furniture—will help keep your cat occupied. Be sure to have at least one scratching post for each cat in the house.The ideal material for scratching posts is sisal fabric. The scratching post should be tall so that your cat can reach up and strech as it scratches., In nature, cats love to eat slowly throughout the day. If your cat is stealing items to eat, it might be because they are hungry or anxious about not having food around. Try splitting meals up into several feedings of smaller portions or experiment with a new type of food., Your cat might be stealing things because it has found that it is the best way to get your attention. If you spend more time with your cat, pet it, and talk to it, it won’t feel like it needs to seek attention by misbehaving.Though cats are often perceived as independent, studies suggest that most cats care more for human affection than food. However, earning the trust of a cat can take a lot of time and effort. If your cat doesn’t seem to interested in interacting, don’t give up. Slowly work your way up to more social time. 