 It's good to have a fresh, clean home in the new season. After winter, your home is probably in need of a good airing and tidying up of things that have accumulated during the winter. It's also good to open up things that have been winterized. Here are some ideas to get you started:



Spring clean your kitchen and spring clean your house


Open your swimming pool for spring and open your above ground pool after winter


Prepare your spring garden on a budget.
Spruce up your home with new decorations.;
, Spring is a great time for considering a makeover of your existing look. Have you had the same hairstyle for the past several years? Is your wardrobe due for an update?


Spring is a great time to check the age of your makeup. Most makeup should be used within 6 to 12 months. Throw out old makeup and anything that's no longer in style.
Look at new hairstyles. While it's helpful to look at current season styles, be sure to ask your hair stylist to help you with a style that matches your facial shape and brings out the best for you, for your age and gender.
For more makeover ideas, see further: How to have a complete physical makeover, How to do a self complete makeover and How to give yourself a makeover with the clothes you already have.
 Spring is a wonderful time of blossom, scent and relief after the colder days. Think of all the butterflies emerging, flowers blooming, the bees buzzing, and the smell of freshly-mowed grass. Allow yourself to unwind from the hardships of winter forbearance and rediscover how to relax. Here are some ideas to get you started:



How to relax, How to relax without relaxation, How to consciously relax and How to relax your mind.
 Then put them in a vase in your house. Fresh flowers from your own garden or from a local flower provider will make your house colorful and pretty.


Help your local flower growers by buying locally sourced flowers.

Grow some flowers in your garden, window box or on your balcony. Choose flowers that have a special meaning for you or that are in your favorite colors.
 Sit in your garden or go for a walk with a friend. As soon as the weather begins to warm up, spend more time outdoors. If you've been exercising indoors a lot, switch to some more outdoor exercise to benefit from the fresh air and sunshine.



How to exercise outdoors.
 Drawing is fun and relaxing and even if you've never tried it before, you never know––you might be quite good. Painting requires an eye for color, and there is plenty about in spring as the flowers, blossom and brighter colors start to emerge. And if you enjoy photography, spring is a lovely time to experiment with plant, scenery and cute animal photography. Here are some ideas to help:


How to use light in photography
How to draw

How to paint and paint flowers and How to paint with watercolors.

