 It can be difficult to start hanging out with someone you’ve just met. You may not feel comfortable with them enough to ask them over or to go out together. A good way to start a long term friendship to start texting them about your shared interests. Send them a picture you think they’ll find funny. Show them a website about your common interest. Ask them questions about homework or work. Texting is key to modern friendships, and it’s one of the primary ways that friends keep in touch.Sometimes asking for someone's number feels awkward. Try saying something like, "If it's okay with you, I would love to get your number so we can chat a little more and maybe hang out!"
You could also ask, "Could I have your number? I want to text you about what we've been talking about!"

, Once you’ve established that you share an interest, you should take the opportunity to do it with them. Ask them if they want to come over or to go out to do your hobby. Some casual activities include:


Discussing books or movies over coffee
Playing video games together, either over the internet or together in the same room
Going on a hike together

, It sounds easy, but the best way to make good friends to be a good friend.Be open about your interests, and they’ll open up to you. Invite them to group outings. Perhaps they’ll do the same and introduce you to more people who share your interests.
 While it might be exciting to find someone who has all of the same interests, you should not overwhelm them with texts, phone calls, and emails. While they may be interested in being your friend, they have other social obligations, time requirements, and hobbies too. You want to make friends, but you do not want to appear needy.


Wait for them to text you back before you send another message.
Call once and leave a voice mail if they do not answer.
Friend them on social media, but do not like all of their posts at once.
If they do not respond, they will probably not be a good friend, no matter how many interests you share.

