 The vertical section of a step is referred to as the "riser," and the horizontal section is called the "tread." The "stringer" runs the length of the stairs and provides support.;
, Note that this measurement should be made to the top of the second floor, not to the bottom of it.


Divide the height from the first floor to the top of the second floor by a predetermined height of your choice for the riser. The typical height of a riser is 6 or 7 inches (15 to 17.5 cm). The answer you get will indicate the number of stairs you need.
Round your calculation up or down if dividing the height to the second floor by your preferred height for the riser does not give you a whole number. For example, if the answer you obtained in the first problem was 8.5, divide your total height from top to bottom by 8 and 9 in turn. The answers from these problems will give you the riser heights for each scenario, 8 steps and 9 steps. Choose which height sounds better to you.
 You do not need to make any measurements for this, but you also do not need to choose a number at random. The typical length for a tread is 10 inches (25 cm), so you'll want to stay around that number.
 Calculate the total length of your stairs (as opposed to height) by multiplying this number of risers (minus 1) by the length of a single tread. If you're using 10 inch (25 cm) treads and need 20 risers, you'll multiply 10 inches (25 cm) by 19 to get 190 inches (19 times 25 cm equals 475 cm or 4.75 m). This is the total length of the stairs.
 This answer will tell you the location of the first tread. Find the location of the second tread by subtracting the riser height from the distance from the first floor to the first tread. Continue this to find and mark on a diagram the location of and distance between all treads.
 This is the length you need to use when cutting horizontal sections into your stringers, the two pieces of lumber that run the length of each side of the stairs to provide support.
 If you're using a 10 inch (25 cm) tread, cut it at 11 inches (27.5 cm) instead so that you have some of the tread hanging over the riser.








