 Gaining relevant knowledge about all aspects of the company will increase your value to the firm. This is important in any type of position, because people who are valued will have a greater chance of keeping their jobs.


When employers hire someone to fill a temporary position (or any position, for that matter) there is a learning curve in fully understanding the industry, company and general business operations.






If the company is actually looking for a permanent employee, they will have to go through that learning curve with someone else if they do not choose to keep you. Although the company is willing to take this risk when establishing a temporary position, they would rather offer the job to someone they already have working instead of going back and training someone again.






When you are in a temporary position you would like to make permanent, you can gain the most knowledge by doing the following:






Research the industry. Conduct Internet searches by using the industry as the keyword. Learn about the competition, how the business is run, and what causes industry highs and lows.
Explore the company’s website. Learn about their vision, mission, philosophy, history, target market, product or service offerings, pricing and any other information that is available.

;
, Any clarification that you may need to do your job successfully and understand operations should be addressed to those who can help you. Your supervisor will see you are taking an interest in learning about the company and your role, while co-workers will be glad to help so that they will not need to pick up your slack.
 If your work affects another department, it is important to understand how this relationship works. Teamwork helps in reaching company goals, and you'll impress your superiors if you help further the effort.


Gaining this knowledge will help you seem like less of a temp and more of a regular employee.
 This will showcase your adaptability and further your efforts to be considered for a permanent position.


This gives you a greater chance of being accepted by team members and other co-workers instead of being seen as an outsider or just a temp.
If the company has a team-like culture where everyone in the department works together toward a common goal, it is best to be able to collaborate with other team members as opposed to being the loner who likes to work independently.
 While working with individuals throughout the company, it is important to form lasting relationships based on trust. This is especially important when a temp is trying for a permanent position. By moving away from the image of an outsider, and towards that of a trusted team member, you will be of more value to the company. Building trust will allow you to:


Be successful at your current tasks. There will be people willing to help you by providing information, advice, and assistance.
Leverage relationships for the future. For example, if you need someone in the legal department to look over a contract right away, you can take advantage of a relationship you've nourished to get this done more quickly than someone else might.
Get others on your side. Most likely, before deciding whether or not to offer you a permanent position, managers may ask your fellow workers their opinion of you. The more people you have on your side, the more they can vouch for your personality and work ethic.
 Becoming a valuable part of the team means being someone who is deeply appreciated and truly important to the success of the company. If you are seen as someone the company needs, you have a much greater chance of landing a permanent spot.


This can be done by following the above suggestions and by contributing consistently hard work.

