 This is the perfect temperature for chicken to bake at, keeping the chicken juicy without drying out. Make sure that your oven is cleared out of any pots and pans you might have stored inside. You might also want to wipe out the oven so that remnants from past meals don't contaminate the chicken.;
, Place the chicken underneath a piece of plastic wrap. Use a small mallet (metal or wood) and gently pound the chicken thighs. Make sure that each of the thighs is of equal thickness, around 1/2 inch-3/4 inch. This will not only make your chicken more tender, but will allow you to cook the chicken evenly.
 This is a process which makes your chicken moist and juicy. Fill a medium sized bowl with warm (not hot) water. Stir in a pinch of salt. Let the chicken sit in the brine for 15 minutes. This will draw in moisture into the chicken thighs., Get out a large enough baking pan to fit all of the chicken thighs you plan to cook. Add 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of olive oil or butter to the pan. Spread it out evenly, so that your chicken will not stick to the pan. This will get your chicken brown and crispy., Take your chicken out of the brine. Brush the chicken with either olive oil or butter. Use your hands and press into the outside of the chicken any seasonings you would like. Some popular combinations are lemon pepper, barbecue, and or garlic herb., Put the chicken in the pan laced with olive oil or butter. Tuck in herbs and lemon wedges next to the chicken thighs if you like. These will add an extra layer of flavor to your dish., You have two options here. One is to wrap the entire dish in tinfoil. Make sure that the tinfoil wraps around the edges of the pan, and is secure. The other option is to wrap in parchment paper. If you choose this option, place the piece of parchment paper inside of the dish, directly on top of the chicken. You can either go along with baking, or place this directly in the refrigerator to cook later on., Place the pan into the oven. Close the oven and set your kitchen timer for 20 minutes. After the 20 minutes is up, take your chicken out and rush your chicken with another layer of oil or butter. Add in any extra spices you want to in this step. Place the chicken back in the oven for another 10 to 15 minutes.

