 This will take you to a new page to get started on your account. You have an additional option to connect with Facebook, too.;
, Once you're on the 'get started' page it is required to add a username. The username can be anything such as your favorite food, name, etc. But the username must be appropriate - nothing rude! Then type in a password. Make sure the password is strong and includes both letters and numbers. Don't forget to write it down somewhere so you don't forget!

, Giving your Email to Viewbug will subscribe you to email notifications. The notifications are reminders on discounts, your ranking in a competition, if you've won a challenge, etc. You can unsubscribe at any time., It is required to give name, birth date, current age, gender and country. You can also put in a link to your own photography website if you have one.


Most viewers/followers would like to know your name. Names are really important in photography as it gives you a form of identity. Remember; it has to be your real name and not a nickname or user name.
Don't lie about your birth date even if you're a bit young. Every photographer is welcome even if you're young, amateur or don't have an expensive camera. The same goes to your current age as it will have to match your birth date.
When you're entering a location you have to enter your country, state and city. There's no need to enter the area your living in as that information is private and confidential.
Enter in a link to your website if you wish to. This will gain more views on your site which is always handy. To get the link down simply copy and paste!
Describe yourself in the 'about me' section. This is additional and doesn't have to be done, but it's great to tell a little about yourself and your interests. Remember don't give out your password, address or school.
 Your starting profile picture should be blank when you first sign up. To change it click on the small circle on your upper right hand corner and click on 'account settings' on the drop-down menu. This will take you to a new page. On that page should be another blank circle with a pencil button next to it. Click on the pencil button and upload an image from your files., To do so click on the button labeled 'UPLOAD' in the upper right hand corner. Once on it you can click on the blue 'upload from computer' button and then select an image from your files. Add a title and description to the photo and categorize it with tags too.
 You can now vote for your favorite photos, enter photo contests or challenges, learn new photography tips, create a new photo challenge and much more.

