 For many people dealing with anger issues, the fact that they are too quick to become angry or express themselves with anger in situations that do not call for it is often lost on the individual. So, it can be useful to listen to others' opinions of your behavior, as it is often easier for someone else to identify when you are getting angry than it is gauge your own manifestations of anger. The first step in addressing an anger issue is to realize that you have one., Anger manifests itself in many ways, but is also accompanied by a handful of physical changes in your body that can help you know when you are getting angry. Some physical signs of anger are:


An increase in blood pressure and pulse.
General redness in the face, or a hot feeling in the neck/face area.
Clenching your jaws or grinding your teeth.
The rapid onset of a headache or stomach ache.
An increase in sweating, especially your palms.
Shaking or trembling.
Dizziness., Emotional markers also indicate the onset of anger in an individual. Some of the emotional signs to watch for are:


Feeling like you want to get away from the situation.
Feeling irritated, sad or depressed.
Feeling guilty, resentful or anxious.
Feeling like you may need to lash out verbally or physically., Anger is accompanied by a handful of changes in one's behavioral patterns as well. Some behavioral changes to watch out for are:


Rubbing your head excessively.
Cupping your fist with your other hand.
Pacing.
Engaging in mean-spirited sarcasm.
A sudden loss of your sense of humor
Acting in an openly abusive or abrasive manner.
Craving a drink, a smoke or other substance that relaxes you.
A sudden raising of your voice or beginning to yell, scream, or cry., As anger is often a first response to any stressful situation for people with anger management problems, it is often useful for you to ask yourself, “Why am I angry?” Many times you will find that a situation in which you have expressed anger as a first reaction does not call for an angry response and, when you have examined the situation carefully, you will realize that anger is not helping the situation or providing any real solution., Many times, people with anger management issues do not actually have a problem with anger, but rather a lack of control. It is undeniably stressful to have to cope with a situation over which you have little to no control. However, angry reactions will not change the level of influence you have on a situation and, more often than not, can exacerbate the stress-levels that are incumbent with such situations- leading to greater levels of anger., Overwhelming feelings of anger in situations that do not call for it can often be signs of an underlying psychological or psychiatric disorder. Bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and dissociative identity disorder are but a few psychological conditions that can lead one to react with anger. These conditions can be managed with medical or professional help and are cause to see doctor or therapist.It is important to note that these conditions are relatively rare, affecting only about 43 million people in the United States, or about 18% of the total population. While considering the possibility of a mental disorder is relevant to controlling your anger, it is far more likely that you have anger management problems rather than a psychiatric disorder.Also keep in mind that associative identity disorder and schizophrenia usually manifest themselves in far more severe ways than simple outbursts of anger.
 Your anger management issues may be a result of your environment. However, before you can remove yourself from situations that make you angry, you need to be aware of the environmental factors that trigger your anger and know that others’ responses to your anger can often lead to you becoming even angrier., Once you realize that you have an anger management issue, look back on situations where you have responded to stress with anger. Did becoming outwardly angry relieve your stress? Did responding with anger alleviate the actual source of or fix the issue that was making you angry? For well-balanced and grounded individuals, the answers to these questions are usually “No.” Stepping back for a moment and gaining some perspective should allow you to see that your anger solved nothing. It was not successful in relieving you of your stressful feelings and the situation that made you angry in the first place is rarely resolved with anger. With this being the case, you may be able to substitute another reaction for the anger you are used to conveying.