 Even if it is unpopular, you have the right to express your point of view. A good professor will be respectful of differences in opinion, and will be able to create a good discussion to the benefit of everyone’s education.;
, Stay current with reading assignments and papers. Being a good student lends credibility to your arguments. Read beyond the text to back up your beliefs with additional insights.
 It is not your imagination, professors are generally liberal,and have even moved further to the left in recent years.Nevertheless, offer them your respect. In spite of their political beliefs, they are still knowledgeable in their field, and have a lot to offer your education.
 Keep your conversations casual and civil. You will make friends instead of enemies. People are more receptive to new ideas if everyone remains friendly!If your opponent becomes angry, try not to feed into it. It makes you the bigger person to try to deescalate the situation and remain calm.
It is up to you if you want to continue to engage with someone who is being hostile. To end the conversation, try saying, “I think we should revisit this another time when we’re not so worked up. Can we agree to disagree in the meantime?” and change the subject.
 You are not limited to your classes for an education. Take the initiative to teach yourself.


Find a recommended reading list of conservative works and read these in your spare time.
Volunteer to work on the campaign of a candidate whose ideals you support. This is also great work experience.
Help get people registered to vote.
Be a poll worker on Election Day.
 Check your school’s library and make sure there is a broad spectrum of political writings represented. Talk to your school’s librarian if you think something is missing.
 How has your upbringing shaped you? Reflect on your heritage and life experience and consider how this has shaped your belief system. Your culture, family, socioeconomic status, and more come into play when you develop your political beliefs.Realize that your classmates’ upbringings also influence their beliefs and create biases. Learning more about your classmates’ backgrounds, as well as sharing yours, can increase mutual understanding. Try asking, “What was your family like growing up? What was your neighborhood like?”

