 You can find this in your Apps drawer or by pressing the Menu button on certain LG devices.;
, In this menu, look for the “Screen unlock” section. Touch “Set up screen lock”.
 There will be three different options that you can pick from: Pattern, PIN, or Password.


A Pattern lock requires you to draw a specific pattern on the phone’s screen to unlock it. You will need to repeat the pattern twice before it is accepted.
A PIN lock requires you to enter a 4 digit number to unlock the phone. You will need to enter the PIN twice before it accepted.
A Password lock requires a minimum 4 character password to unlock the phone. You will need to enter the password twice before it is accepted.
 If you want to change your screen lock, navigate to the “Screen unlock” section and tap “Change screen lock”. You will need to input the old lock pattern, PIN, or password before you can enter a new one.
 Press the Power button on your phone while the screen is dark. This will show the Lock screen and the input method for your specific unlock. Enter your pattern, PIN, or password. For Pattern unlocks, the device will unlock once the pattern has been successfully completed. For PIN or password unlocks, press the OK button once you have entered the correct code.


If you enter the wrong pattern or code 5 times in a row, you will be locked out of your phone for 30 seconds before you can try again.
 If you can’t remember your screen lock password or pattern, you have two choices to access your phone again. If you have a Google account associated with the phone, touch the “Forgot pattern” button and sign in with your Google account. If you don’t have a Google account, you will need to factory reset your phone, which will erase all of your data:


Turn the power off on your phone.
Press and hold the Power, Volume Up, and Home buttons for about 8 seconds.
Wait until the phone boots into system recovery mode.
Use the Volume Up/Down keys to scroll to “wipe data/factory reset” and press the Menu key to select it.
Click “Yes” to start the data wipe process.
Select “reboot system now” to restart the phone after the data wipe is complete. You will need to setup your phone as if you were using it for the first time.