 Think about what you will need to do and where you will need to go if you have to leave your home for any reason. Create a chain of command where one person is in charge of getting the cat, but others will be sure to check in case the appointed person is unable to complete the task.You should include a meeting spot outside the home in your evacuation plan. This will ensure that everyone knows what to do and where to go to keep everyone safe (including your cat).;
, Once you have your emergency evacuation plan in place, make sure all of your family members know what the plan is and what needs to be done to ensure your cat’s safety. Even the children in your home should be made aware of the plan.Everyone needs to be reminded from time to time about the emergency evacuation plan so that people (including children) can recall the information easily, even in the heat of the moment.
 If you are forced to evacuate your home, never leave your pets behind. This could be incredibly dangerous for your pets. Pets are unlikely to survive if they are left behind in a disaster situation.You may need to consider boarding your pets in emergency situations.
If you have absolutely no other recourse and must leave your pets at home, make sure they have access to drinking water. You can take the lid off the toilet tank and lift up the toilet seat.
Never leave your pet chained outside if you evacuate your home.
 It’s important to remember that your cat may run and hide in an emergency situation. This means your cat might not be very easy to find when you are trying to evacuate. Try looking under and behind pieces of furniture. If you can’t find the cat, try to lure it out with some of its favorite treats.

Pay attention to how your cat acts when it is scared at other times. Then you will have an idea about its go-to hiding spots in your home, which could speed up your search during an emergency.
If your cat hides under your bed when guests come over, it’s likely that your cat will also dart under the bed when it is scared during a disaster.

