 It sounds impossible, but work hard to resist thinking of yourself as “the smart one” in your friend group. You will not always be the most intelligent person in the room, and the farther you get from school, the less book smarts will matter in your day-to-day life.There is more to you than your brains. Chances are those other things are what people like best about you.Maybe people around you see value in other aspects of your personality, such as your sense of humor, your ability to empathize with others, your ability to be kind or your spirituality. Consider other attributes of your personality that you view as critical and important to you, as well as the attributes that others around you seem to value. You may find that being intellectually gifted is not the only thing you have to offer to others.
When all you value about yourself is your mind, it is common for a gifted adult to feel as though they have not lived up to the potential they had as a child.However, you should remember that as an individual, you evolve. This means that you may not have the same idea of “gifted” as an adult compared to when you were a child.;
, Traditionally intelligent individuals are fast learners with a high capacity for rational thinking and abstract reasoning. However, this strength can also be a weakness.When thinking through problems, don’t allow your abstract ideas to replace the material world.


Robert Sternberg developed his theory of “practical intelligence” to differentiate between an intelligence that works only in theory and a way of thinking that sees things from various angles and solves problems in the here and now.This could mean that intellectually gifted individuals can use their intelligence to solve practical issues or problems, from how to build a deck properly to how to earn extra money in a certain profession or vocation.
Gifted individuals are more likely to see truth as relative and meaning as contextual.Their peers are not, however. Try leaving the hypotheticals aside when talking with someone living in a more rigid world of truth.
 After more than a decade of schooling, it is easy to take that sense of uniqueness or superiority for granted. There are plenty of reasons to stay humble even if you are intellectually gifted. For example:


Traditional intelligence measured during childhood has little bearing on success in adulthood.Highly intelligent people have the same rates of divorce, alcoholism, and suicide as people of average intelligence.Children who succeed easily in school miss out on learning the value of hard work and acquiring self-discipline, leading to difficulties in adulthood.Intelligent people are less likely to admit when they are wrong even in the face of evidence.Individuals with a high intelligence are more likely to believe in ghosts and the paranormal because they can rationalize just about any idea., Even when it seems at times that nobody else shares your unique interests and strengths, keep doing what you do. The happiness and confidence that come from pursuing your own passions will be attractive to others even if some people tease.


For example, if you like reading and talking about the works of Leo Tolstoy, don’t pretend like you’d rather read John Grisham.
 Intelligent people are more likely to develop mental “blind spots” because they learn to trust their own ideas more than the ideas of others.This can be dangerous as you get older and life becomes more complicated. To avoid being caught by biases and blind spots, take a big step backwards and separate yourself from the problem.Use “he” or “she” instead of “I” when you analyze situations. This trick can help you get outside yourself and see things from another perspective.
Imagine the idea you’re mulling over is somebody else’s. What would you say to that person if they’d had this idea instead of you?

, Even if someone isn’t smart in one way or another, they are still a person with strengths and passions of their own, entitled to respect and a fair chance.


Consider other black-and-white categories that might not turn out in your favor. Is it fair to judge the rest of the world with such a stark division?
It might seem efficient to divide the world into categories of “people like me” and “people not like me,” but do you really want to reduce yourself to one dimension, your intelligence? Maybe there is more to you than that.
 However, if your boss absolutely needs you in your current position, you have a worse chance of being promoted or moved into a more exciting role.


Teach some of your unique skills to others on the team so everyone can be useful.
Exceed the expectations of your boss to stand out, but don’t let yourself become a workhorse who never says “No.”
When you get your vacation days, use them. Let your boss have a week without you to get the rest of the team moving.
 Without hiding your gifts, try being polite and gracious enough in the workplace to avoid drawing any backlash from your boss’s ego.


Share the credit on large projects, even if you took the lead. Your boss knows you had the reins, and staying humble avoids challenging his “alpha male” tendencies.
Show gratitude when your boss offers good advice or a nice tip, even if it is something you had thought of already.
 However, if your lust for learning leads you to specialize too much, you risk that chance for a promotion or a more exciting position elsewhere.


For example, don’t let yourself become known as “the never-misses-a-Midwestern-pharmaceutical-sale guy” around the office. Although complementary, that label could haunt you when you want to move into a different department.
 Even if you could do a certain task better or more quickly than someone else, you may need to save your own time and energy for the more demanding duties.


Include the entire team in your plans. Making a co-worker feel useless is a good way to earn yourself a bad reputation at the office.
As the proverb goes, “The perfect is the enemy of the good.” Give up on perfectionism.
 Though it may be difficult for you to accept feedback and criticism from your boss or your superior, especially if you consider yourself intellectually gifted, try to view any feedback as useful and valuable.Avoid getting defensive or angry, and avoid blaming someone else for any issue or a mistake. Instead, try to listen to the feedback or criticism. Respond by thanking the person for the feedback and think about how you can use it to get better at your job or at a certain task.
 However, they aren’t always the jobs you think. For instance:


Manual labor jobs provide an excellent space to be introspective and thoughtful, while working as a writer or academic puts demands and constraints on what you can spend your time thinking about.
If it becomes impossible to tolerate a boss with a low intelligence, consider becoming self-employed. What skills do you have that could be contracted out to others?

,


One option is to join a local meetup group, where you meet up with people in your area for coffee and socialize. You can also join a recreational sports league or a club that focuses on a hobby or skill that you enjoy. Meeting people this way will ensure you are exposed to many different types of people, ranging in background and intelligence.
Loneliness is one the most common problems of being intellectually gifted.Fortunately, you can be proactive to combat loneliness.
 Things to avoid:


Going out of your way to say something that sounds “smart.”
Bragging about how fast you finished one mental task or another.
Scoffing or laughing at someone for not knowing something.
Being too blunt or abrasive when correcting someone.
Taking on the air of an expert every time you speak.
Assuming everyone enjoys the same level of specificity and correctness that you do.
 In fact, most research finds no correlation at all between a high intelligence and low social aptitude., For example:


Your language skills may make texting to communicate feel easier, but others might use words very differently than you. Tone, humor, and hints can all be lost over text so risk those face-to-face interactions.
It is easier for others to see you as a whole person (and not reduce you to a brain) when you interact in person.
 Rarely does any such underlying meaning exist. If you find yourself analyzing the same interaction hours or days later, ask yourself:


"Would that person have hidden some super subtle subtext to the conversation? Or was he or she likely just going with the flow and saying whatever came to mind?”
"Do I misunderstand this situation simply because I have little firsthand experience with it? Can my thinking really add any insight?”
"Is this a social problem something I can think my way out of? Or is the answer something to do with emotion, respect, expectations, or communication?”

, Give yourself discrete, concrete goals for upcoming social interactions and stick to them. For example:


"I will have lunch with Andrew without giving him my expert opinion on what is wrong with his car.”
"I will go through this entire party without mentioning my new award.”
"If Sarah tells me about her day, I will not offer any ‘Well, this is what I would have done…’ scenarios.”

, Nowadays you can let your freak flag fly and stop hiding your inner geek. This is good news for many intellectually gifted people and great news for people looking to date a geek. Here are a few reasons why gifted people make great lovers:


Intellectually gifted people are fast learners.
Smart people get passionate about their interests and know how to share that excitement.
Highly intelligent people can be naturally introspective.
Perfectionism is a good thing in a lover. They will keep trying until they get it right.

