 To start, evaluate your eyebrows in a mirror. Before you feather your brows, you will want to fill them in as normal.Use a brow brush to brush your eyebrows upward. This will make bald spots or spots where hair is light more apparent.
Make note of where such spots occur. You will fill these areas in with a brow pencil that matches your hair color.;
, Before you begin filling in your brows, you want to make sure you know where they should start. To do this, take any straight makeup brush you have. Place it along your nose, forming a vertical line upward. Your eyebrows should start at this line and move outward., Once you've identified where your brows should start, and where the gaps are, you can begin filling in your brows. The process of feathering starts now. You want to use the right motions to create the feathered texture.As you draw lines filling in your brows, use upward motions. You want to sweep along your eyebrows horizontally, moving from the top to the bottom.
Move along the full length of each eyebrow, making swift upward swipes. This should create the feathered texture.
 Once you've filled in your brows, you can solidify the feathered look. Take a clean brow brush to feather your brows.Use upward motions. Again, brush the eyebrows from top to bottom.
Swipe your eyebrows quickly. This will help the hair move upwards, creating the right effect.
 You may notice some more gaps in your eyebrows after feathering them. If you notice any gaps, take a brow pencil. Create hair strokes by moving the pencil from top to bottom in the areas where you lack hair., You can use a small touch of brow gel to solidify the feathered brow look. Gel will fill in your brows a bit more and make them look darker and more defined.Apply the gel using the same motions you used with your brow brush. Use quick, swiping motions to move across each eye, pushing the hair upward.
 The wrong brow brush can make it difficult to feather your brows successfully. You should not use any brow brush to fill in your brows. Opt for a thin, angled brush as you can use this tool with more precision., You do not want the makeup on your brows to look unnatural. Make sure you make enough brush strokes that any makeup fades into your natural hair color. It can take awhile to blend, so have patience.A spoolie brush, sometimes called a brow wand, can be helpful for blending.
 Make sure to select a color that closely matches your natural brow color. You should also make sure you only use a light layer of brow makeup. Too many layers can make your eyebrows look unnaturally dark.