 Garlic's pungent, savory taste is the perfect accompaniment to creamy Alfredo perfection. As you melt the butter, mince a clove of garlic or two. Then, cook them on their own in the butter for about a minute before adding the rest of the ingredients. This brings out their natural flavor and aroma. Leave the garlic in the sauce as you serve it.
 The sweet, slightly acidic taste of most white wines adds a refined dimension to simple Alfredo recipes. Slowly mix in about 1/3 of a cup of wine just before you add the salt and pepper to the recipe. You may find that you need to simmer the sauce slightly longer to re-thicken it after adding the wine.


Most white wines will work well. The crisp, fresh taste of Chardonnay, for instance, will elevate the dish's smoothness.Avoid dessert wines like moscato, as these will be overpoweringly sweet.
 The acidic flavor of lemon juice "cuts" the fat of the alfredo sauce. The interaction between the flavors can be tangy but mouth-watering. To add this citrus flavor to your sauce, halve a lemon while you're waiting for the sauce to come to a simmer. Use a fine grater or microplane to zest the peel into a small pile. Once the sauce has thickened, add the zest. Then, squeeze the juice from the lemon half in. Stir to combine.


You may want to squeeze the lemon into the sauce through a strainer to prevent any seeds from falling in.
 Nutmeg may not be the first spice you'd think of that would fit well in a creamy alfredo sauce. However, in small quantities the spice can add a savory, pleasantly aromatic quality to the dish. Try stirring in a very small pinch of nutmeg (no more than 1/4 teaspoon) when you add the Parmesan cheese. If you like the effect you get, you can keep adding more in tiny increments.
 Alfredo sauce tastes great, but one look at the ingredients list will reveal that it's calorie-dense and loaded with fat. Try substituting an equal amount of your favorite low-fat plain yogurt for the cream in the normal recipe. Greek style yogurt is also OK. The dish will still be rich, but not as rich.


The yogurt will also give the recipe a slightly "tangier" taste (similar to a Stroganoff sauce). Some prefer this.
You may want to add about a tablespoon of flour to the recipe at the same time as you add the yogurt. Yogurt can curdle when exposed to high heats, but flour tends to prevent this.
 The earliest versions of the modern Alfredo sauce used only two ingredients: cheese and butter.When melted and combined, these form a smooth, rich, golden mixture that coats the pasta evenly. This version of the sauce is simple but hearty and delicious If you're looking to experiment with old-fashioned flavors, try leaving out the cream, water, and seasonings from the recipe above. You also may want to double the amounts of cheese and butter you use to get a similar amount of sauce.


For a more authentic taste, use fresh, unsalted butter. Before refrigeration, salt was added to butter so that it would keep longer. When people wanted to make a great recipe, they would use unsalted butter, which had to be fresh because it wouldn't keep for very long.

