 Visit your local pharmacy, toy store, or discount retailer to purchase a water gun. Buy a smaller gun that you can carry around with you, and one that you can easily hide in your pants pocket or in your waistband.


Purchase water guns that shoot streams of water as opposed to mists of water.
Alternatively, you can purchase a spray bottle, but these are more difficult to carry around with you.;
, When punishing your dog with a spray bottle, it is very important that you punish it while it is in the act of misbehaving. Punishing your dog after the fact can cause confusion, or even make your dog think it is being punished for no reason.For example, if you find that your dog has chewed up your shoe, but you did not see your dog doing it, then going over to your dog and squirting it with the water gun will not do any good. Instead, wait for the next time you see your dog chewing on your shoe or the furniture. Use the water gun to punish your dog then.
Keep your water gun hidden in your pocket or waistband at all times so that you can punish your dog in the act, and use the element of surprise to your advantage.
 When you catch your dog in the act, and you have your water gun handy, avoid spraying your dog in the face. First off, by spraying it in the face, you can inadvertently harm its eyes. Secondly, your dog will be able to see that you are spraying the bottle. Thus, it will come to associate you with the punishment, and might begin to fear or resent you.Instead, spray your dog’s body, like its back or its behind. Or, try spraying your dog in the back of the head.
Do not use the water gun forcefully, for example, use a high-pressure setting to spray the dog, or spray too much water. You might harm the dog this way.
 As you squirt your dog, you must give a verbal addition, like “No,” “Stop,” or “Stop, bad dog.” This way, the dog can begin to associate the punishment with the verbal correction. Once it has made a connection between the word and the punishment, you will only need to use the word to get it to stop misbehaving.Make sure your voice is confident, loud (but not yelling), and firm so that your dog understands that you are in charge and do not approve of the behavior.

