 The towels will absorb some of the moisture from the wet clothing, and the whole batch may dry more quickly as a result. You can use as little as one towel or as many as five; in general, the more towels you use, the more quickly your clothes will dry.Bear in mind that this trick works best when you only need to quickly dry one or two pieces of clothing. The more wet garments you add to the dry cycle, the less effective the towels will be – and the longer your clothes will take to dry.
 Do not add any other clothing. At most, add two or three pieces of wet clothing, but nothing too heavy. Be aware that towels are often lint-heavy, so there is a chance that lint will build up on your garment.


If lint is a concern, you can use cotton T-shirts in place of the towels – although T-shirts will not be as absorptive as towels. Adding dryer sheets can reduce the chances of lint from the towels building up on your garment., When lint builds up, it can prevent your dryer from moving air efficiently, making it work harder and use more energy to dry clothes. Depending on the design of your dryer, the lint trap will either be on the top of the dryer or located just inside the door. Locate the trap and pull out the screen. If it is covered in a layer of lint, it is already somewhat blocked. Pull the lint away, or scrape it from the screen using your fingernails.Consider using a vacuum cleaner to quickly and efficiently remove the lint. You can do this to finish the job after pulling away the bulk of the lint. Don't worry too much about getting it absolutely clean – if the lint screen is mostly unobstructed, the dryer will run near top efficiency.When you have cleaned the lint trap to your satisfaction, simply slide the screen back into the trap. Make sure that it fits neatly. You are ready to dry.
 Load the wet garments and the dry towels, and make sure that the dryer isn't overfull. Turn the dryer on to the highest heat setting that is safe for the garment you're trying to dry – this will vary from machine to machine, but you should generally use a lower heat for delicates and other thin clothing. Set the dryer to run, then do whatever else you need to do to get ready.
 Open the dryer door and pick your garment(s) out from the towels. You should find your garment mostly dry. If not, put it back in and run the dry cycle for a few more moments. Be patient, depending on your dryer, it could be +/- five minutes.


Make sure to remove the dry towel (which may no longer be so dry) if the cycle takes 20 minutes or more. After this point, the now-damp towel may actually slow down the drying process.

