 Type the business names you're considering into your favorite search engines. This will tell you if anyone is using the name you want to use for the purpose you intend to use it. A good first step when searching for exact titles is to put double quotation marks around the entire phrase. If your search yields nothing relevant, remove the quotation marks for a broader search.


For example, put the following into a search engine, after the semi-colon: “Whitewashing Laundromats”
Your search may bring up this phrase within a block of text in addition to any names of businesses, products, or services. For example, it could locate it within the sentence, “…and the fact that the family painter continued whitewashing laundromats’ walls was a testament to his dedication.” See? The phrase you entered came up in the search, but it was not associated with the name of a business, product, or service. If this is the only time you find the name you want to use, you’re probably in the clear.
 Some states maintain a single database for the entire state; others maintain separate databases for each county. Your county clerk's office can advise you which is the case in your state. This is also where you could register your name with the state. The policies vary by state. This often comes with more limited protections, but probably easier and faster than with the USPTO., If the name you want to trademark is for a corporation, limited partnership or limited liability corporation, look the name up in your state's database of corporate names. Your state's filing office can tell you how to access their corporate name database. This is like a name database, but limited to corporations and businesses.


For example, you may want to use a fairly generic name like Back Porch Investments for your business. Obviously, the phrase ‘Back Porch’ may be in use by many different parties. However, if your goal is only to make sure there is not another company in your state with that name, a name database is the way to go.
 The Thomas Register lists a number of business names, registered and unregistered trade and service marks. Printed copies are available at local libraries, and you can access it online at www.thomasnet.com. It is easy to use. Enter your search query directly into the main search bar on the homepage. Follow the same logic with using double quotation marks as with an internet search engine.
 Sites such as trademark.com and nameprotect.com have lists of trademarks registered in all 50 states. Depending on which site you choose, you may need to register and create an account. There are many useful resources, such as branding consultation, with these companies. It is also a way to make sure other companies don’t use your name.


Cross-check information found here against the USPTO's TESS and TARR databases to get the current status of any trademark listed on one of these sites.
 To register the name with the USPTO, use the Trademark Electronic Application System (TEAS). You may also want to go back and register it with your state, as well as some of these third party listing sites. For a guide to registering a name, check out this guide.