 The environment affects the medicinal properties of the plants. Udaya means morning and giri means peak of hill. Udayagiri translated as the peak on which morning sunlight falls first. Udayagiri is a village and a Mandal in Nellore district in the state of Andhra Pradesh in India. Udayagiri hill ranges lay between 1405210” North, 7901910” East. Udayagiri fort is located on the hills of Udayagiri. There are eleven forts, eight on the hill and three below it. Udayagiri hill is an isolated hill with a height of 1,033 meters (3,389.1 ft) and is a silent witness to the downfall of many empires like Gajapathi dynasty Krishnadevaraya dynasty etc. Udayagiri is also known as Sanjeevini hills as there are thick forests with many medicinal plants. These plants are highly useful in the traditional herbal medicines. The present study aims at revealing the diversified medicinal plants and their uses.;
,
Shrubs : Indigofera cassoides, Gmelina asiatica, Suregada angustifolia, Toddalia asiatica etc.
Trees : Albizzia amara, Azadirachta indica, Boswellia serrata, Chloroxylon swietenia, Dalbergia paniculata, Manilkara hexandra, Terminalia berillica etc.
Climbers: Tinospora cordifolia, Wattakaka Volubilis, Decalepis hamiltonii, Hemidesmus indicus, Gymnema sylvestris etc.
Taxonomical diversity; Extensive exploration studies yielded a good number of medicinal plants. Most of them belong to angiosperms and few of them are ferns and one belong to gymnosperm. Medicinal ferns belong to genus Lycopodium, Actinopteris and selaginella. Cycas beddomi is the gymnospermic species. Pterocarpic santalinus and Decalepis hamiltonii are two species endemic to the Udayagiri hills. Santalum album and Andrographis ovata are rare species found in this area.
Medicinal values of some angiospermic medicinal plants are going to discuss here.
Gymnema sylvestris (retz) R.Br, ; Asclepidadaceae Telugu name; Podapatri.
Susruta described this plant as a destroyer of Madhumeha and other urinary disorders.
Tinospora Cordifolia: (Wild.) Miers ex, Family: Menirspermaceae, Tel: Tippatiga

Uses: The stem is used in indigenous systems of medicines. Its ability to remove both exogenous and endogenous toxins from the body. It acts as memory booster.


Decealpis hamiltonii Wright and Arn ; Family Asclepediaceae Telugu name ; Maredu kommullu
Hemidesmus indicus ; family Asclepediaceae Telugu; Nagasugandhapala

Roots used for cooling effect and blood purifier. - It is consumed by boiling it in water and be steamed for about an hour then drinking the water.


Wattakaka volubilis; family Asclepediaceae Telugu; Banduguruja

Root juice is crushed with pepper and used to cure paralysis


Pterocarpus santalinus ; Family;Fabaceae , Telugu: Rakthachandanam
Andrographis paniculata: Family; Acanthaceae; Telugu; Nelavemu

It is used as a bitter tonic and for killing worms and to cure dysentery.

Take the root extract of Decealpis hamiltonii Wright and Arn orally to rejuvenate the body. It is the popular health tonic for people.

