 To do this exercise, you will need to have access to an exercise bench that you can lift. If you do not have an exercise bench, you can use a regular bench as long as you can lift it and it can accommodate your body weight.Loop the resistance band so it is under the bench leg or legs closest to your head or upper body. Lie down on the bench and hold the ends of the resistance band in each hand. Your elbows should be bent and pointing away from you.
Breathe in as you extend your arms so they are straight above you. Then, breathe out as you pull your arms back in so your elbows are bent and pointing away from you.
Repeat these movements for two to three sets of 10 to 15 reps.
 This exercise is great if you have limited gym equipment and are looking for a way to work your pectoral muscles. You will need access to a stable object that you can use as a point of resistance during this exercise.Loop the resistance band around one side of the object so it is at a 45 degree angle. You can also do this exercise with the resistance band at a 90 degree angle if you cannot find a stable object with a low bar.
Hold both ends of the resistance band so the handles are facing horizontal in your hands and your elbows are tucked in close to your body.
Breathe in as you extend your arms so they are straight in front of you. Then, breathe out as you pull your arms back towards you so your elbows are bent and tucked close to your body.
Repeat these movements for 10 to 15 reps.
 Try this exercise if you are a beginner at resistance band use and are looking to build your pectoral muscle mass. Doing push ups on the ground can be difficult if you are just starting to work out, so try standing pushups against a wall or a door first.


Loop the resistance band around your body so it is under your shoulder blades against the mid area of your back. Hold the resistance band handles so your hands are just under the handles and place your hands against a wall or a door. Stand with your legs straight behind you and close together. Your body should form a slight angle with the door or wall.
Breathe in and push your hands against the wall as you lower your body towards the wall. Breathe out as you lift your body away from the wall.
Repeat these movements for 10 to 15 reps.
 Once you feel comfortable with the push up position on the wall, move to a push up position on the ground using the resistance band.Loop the resistance band around your upper body so it sits just under your shoulder blades. Hold the resistance band handles so your hands are just under the handles and place your hands shoulder distance apart on the ground. Keep your legs straight behind you, with your feet close together.
Breathe in as you press your hands against the ground and lower your body towards the ground. Breathe out as you press your hands against the ground and lift your body away from the ground.
Repeat these movements for two to three sets of 10 to 15 reps.

