 Because bleaching is so tough on the hair and can severely dehydrate it, you must make sure that it’s properly moisturized beforehand. For approximately two weeks before you bleach, do a deep conditioning mask twice a week to ensure your hair is fully hydrated.If your hair is extremely dry, you may want to use the deep conditioning treatment as much as three times a week leading up to the bleaching.
 You can purchase bleach powder at beauty supply stores, but you must mix it with a developer before you apply it to your hair. Add the amount specified by the packaging for the bleach and developer to a non-metallic bowl and stir them together well.Developer comes in different strengths. To lighten your hair and limit the damage, opt for a 30-volume developer. If your scalp is very sensitive, though, you may want to use a 20-volume developer.
Keep in mind that bleaching works best on virgin hair that’s never been color treated before.
Bleaching damage is usually worse the darker that you hair is.
 To get the best coverage, use a dye or tint brush to paint the bleach mixture onto your hair. Use the pointed end of the brush to part your hair so you can get as close to the roots as possible. Carefully brush the bleach mixture through to the ends of your hair.Be sure to wear rubber gloves when you’re applying the bleach mixture to your hair.
If you don’t mind having some roots showing, you may prefer not bringing the bleach all the way to your scalp. That can help limit the damage to your follicles.
 After you’ve applied the bleach all over your hair, allow it to sit for approximately 30 to 45 minutes. Check on your hair every 15 minutes or so until your hair is a consistent light blond or yellow all over., When your time’s up, wash the bleach mixture out of your hair with cool water. Next, shampoo your locks with your favorite formula to ensure that it’s completely clean., After you’ve bleached your hair, it usually has a brassy yellow tone rather than a cool white look. To soften the color, apply a toner to your damp hair. The toner is meant to neutralize the brassy tones in your hair, so allow it sit for 20 to 30 minutes.You can purchase hair toner at beauty supply stores and many drugstores.
 When the toner has sat on your hair for the designated time, rinse it out with cool water. Treat your hair with a deep conditioning mask and rinse it out according to the instructions.If you hair is extremely dark, you’ll need to bleach your hair two to three times to lighten it all the way to blond. However, you should give your hair time to recover before bleaching it again. Wait at least two weeks before lightening your hair again.

