 Sites like https://www.surveypolice.com, http://www.ripoffreport.com/ and http://www.scamdetector.info offer ratings and listings for a number of companies specifically for the purpose of scam investigation. You can read what other users have to say about the company as well as read aggregate ratings of those organizations. Although this isn’t the most comprehensive way to go about searching for a possible scam, it is one of the easiest. Start here.
 If you're on the fence about a particular scholarship and you can't find much information about it online, talk your school guidance counselor or your college advisor. While they might not be familiar with the specific scholarship, they're probably pretty attuned to noticing red flags and recognizing problematic offers.
 The Better Business Bureau (BBB) is an organization that collects complaints and reviews about businesses for the purposes of maintaining consumer confidence. The BBB also rates member businesses according to their standards for best practices. The BBB is nonprofit organization funded by member businesses themselves. Search BBB reviews of the organization in question at https://www.bbb.org/search/. Stay away from companies with a lot of negative reviews.
 If you suspect an organization which is claiming to be a foundation or a scholarship itself is a scam, the best place to verify it is with the IRS or another foundation directory. The IRS keeps a listing of charitable and tax-exempt organization like foundations.You can find the listing in IRS Publication 78, located at https://www.irs.gov/charities-non-profits/search-for-charities.
Another place to look up foundations and grant making organizations is at the Foundation Directory Online. You can check it out at https://fconline.foundationcenter.org/. Unfortunately, the Foundation Directory is a paid service. Foundations.org is an alternative free directory, but isn’t as comprehensive. It is located at http://www.foundations.org/page2.html, Most state-level secretaries of state maintain online databases of companies incorporated in their respective states. If you’re trying to do a really deep dive to check into a company’s history, then ask the company where they are incorporated, then check to see if they are actually incorporated with the secretary of state’s office in that state. In addition, most states maintain listings of registered LLCs (another type of business form) as well.You can find a listing of secretary of state websites at the National Association of Secretaries of State’s website, located at https://www.nass.org.
A company that claims to be incorporated or a registered LLC but isn’t listed is most definitely a scam.
These same directories often will have listings of violations or complaints by that company as well, although this will vary from state to state.

