 Explore the area to get useful items and helpful attributes., Also, get some coins to use at the shops.,, You will want to bring good armor and a lamp, because some levels are not lighted.,, Lots of coins will be used in Minetown., Traps are very common in the mines, and deadly. Have a leashed pet, or step on the fewest squares possible. (Except in Minetown, you will probably not want to explore the mine, due to the traps.), Many gray stones are load stones, which is a pain to have, they weigh 500 and by default, you cannot drop it (don't hit watchmen, or you will make them hostile).,, If you encounter a monster, kill and sell!


Pretend Minetown is a shopping mall. At a shopping mall, you probably wouldn't pick lock, kick down a door, dig into a shop, cut down a tree, destroy a fountain, attack shop keepers and police officers, or steal from a shop. Well, same applies to Minetown.

Make a stash. Put extra wands, scrolls, etc. into a chest, lock it, and engrave "Elbereth" with a magic marker/magicbane, put the chest inside a room, and lock the room. This will ensure strong security from anything that has a key, anything that can lift a chest, and anything that can go though the wall.

Don't kill shopkeepers. This will decrease your luck, make your god angry, and will be counted as murder.

Go to the lighting store, because there is a 20.6% chance of a magic lamp. They will cost more than normal lamps, and have a chance of showing the message "You see a puff of smoke" when you rub it. Rubbing it repeatedly will cause a dent to show up, with a chance of granting you a wish. If you have not paid for the lamp when this happens, the shopkeeper will charge you a usage fee.

Let your dog or cat go inside the food shop There are many tripe rations your pet will treat themselves to, when you are shopping for other foods. Alternatively, get tripe rations yourself (pay for them or find them) and throw them at your pet when you feel the need to reward them (such as when they pick up items in shops and leave them where you can pick the items up without paying for them). Horses should, as a rule, not be let into shops.

Kill monsters and sacrifice the corpses, if there is an altar of your alignment. Converting the altar will turn the priest hostile, and you will most likely not be strong enough to survive their wrath (at least the first time you hit up Minetown).
 The end lies somewhere between 10th and 13th level. There are luckstones, that will increase your luck, and gems., Cockatrice corpses\eggs may be useful for the priest, "Chat" to the Oracle for a consultation. You will need some money to do this.,, Repeat the cycle as many times as you like to get even more experience and raise your score.,,, Complete the last puzzle, and kill every animal in the zoo., You get one of the two rewards, a bag of holding or an amulet of reflection. Unfortunately, you don't get to pick which one., You choose. The best will probably be to take the risk, in exchange for a lot of experience points. To attack safely:


Make a small fort, by reading a scroll of earth. Move a boulder to let monsters in.

Fight at the corner, if you don't have a scroll of earth.

Kill fast to reduce the risk of huge crowds. Most monsters in the big room will see you.

Stay near the stairs. Better yet, make your fort at the stairs. Go up if you have major injuries. Continue when healed.
 The portal can be in a vault somewhere between level 10 and Medusa. Not every game has a portal to Fort Ludios., There will be many monsters that have wands.,, The fort has very useful loot in gigantic amounts. Enter though the left end of the fort. Freeze, or float/jump over the moat, blast the door, and get inside., Fight him and the monsters, to go to the other side of the fort.

To make the battle with Croesus easier, don't engage him hand-to-hand.
 You will want to "search" to avoid the numerous land mines. Also, inspect the four corners; there will be gems there.

There are around 50,000 gold pieces, half of a strong character's total carrying capacity. Bring a Bag of Holding.
 Be prepared. Bring a lot of food, a lot of armor, and a happy god. Also, you won't need coins., If possible, bring speed boots., "Chatting" with your leader will get you quite a lot of hints and tips about what will happen., The quest artifact is very useful, and the bell (Bell of Opening) is required to win., Medusa can turn you into a statue right when you enter her room. If you bring reflection, she will turn herself into a statue., The level is almost filled with water., Eels can drown you, resulting in sudden death., Bring good tools for the great challenge at the Castle and later on., There will be a moat, and you will need to levitate, jump, swim, or walk on the water., Play the notes (letters A–G) on a musical instrument that can play notes. The drawbridge will open, allowing you to pass it and go inside the castle. If you are lazy, use this., It will be in a locked chest in one of the four rooms close to the corners of the castle, with the word "Elbereth" burned into the ground there., Watch out for the numerous trap doors. Kill the dragons, and (if possible) make dragon scale mail. "Search" at the spot the dragons were, and go into a secret storage area. You will find four rooms filled with food, armor, weapons, and gems., Congratulations for making it through the Dungeons of Doom!