   When you pop that zit you could actually be forcing bacteria deeper into your skin. Popping, picking, squeezing, or touching your acne could also leave you with acne scars that may or may not go away.In serious cases, you can even end up with a staph infection from squeezing blemishes. Just don’t do it.
 The oils and residue from your face lands on the pillow, creating a hotbed for pimple producing opportunities. Consider washing or changing your pillowcase every few days to reduce the chances of pillow-borne acne.
 Exposure to ultraviolet light (like you get from sunshine and tanning beds) can cause serious damage to the skin. It could also make acne worse.If you use certain medications, including some antibiotics, antihistamines, and acne medications such as isotretinoin or topical retinoids, exposure to the sun can also make your skin red, dry, and irritated.
Some sunscreens can cause an acne flare-up. Choose an oil-free sunscreen, or go with a physical sunscreen such as zinc oxide or titanium dioxide., Stress doesn’t cause acne, but it can make existing acne worse Although everyday stress is inevitable, try to avoid stressing out over things by taking a natural approach to relaxation.Try meditation or yoga. Visualization or surrounding yourself with a calming presence can often minimize the effects of stress and provide you with a relaxing posture.
Hit the gym. Run, lift or box out of your stress. Releasing endorphins during workouts can lighten your mood.
Evaluate your environment. In addition to a toxic work or home environments, environmental pollutants and even food additives can make you anxious.
 Diet doesn’t directly cause acne, but it can increase inflammation and promote bacteria growth. Avoiding sugary and highly processed foods and eating low-glycemic-index (GI) foods may help reduce the severity of acne.Some healthy low-GI foods include:


Bran cereals, muesli, rolled oats
Whole wheat, pumpernickel, and other whole grain breads
Most vegetables and fruits
Nuts and legumes
Yogurt

