 The term “mindfulness” refers to a practice of making a gentle effort to be present in whatever you are currently doing.In this case, this means making an effort to think about the exercise as you are doing it. Think about the way the breath feels as you inhale and exhale.


Although your mind will very likely wander to other thoughts, worries, and/or other things you have to get done, just do your best to come back to the present when you notice that it has wandered. Don’t get mad at yourself when this happens.
 This will be different for everyone. If you find that you are comfortable sitting cross-legged on the floor, do that. If you want to lay down or even stand up, that is fine too.Make sure your clothes are comfortable, and that you are sitting with good posture.


Inhale through your nose. Do this as you normally would, don’t make it deeper or more shallow.Exhale slowly. Instead of out your nose, exhale out of your mouth as much as you can.Try to get all of the air out of your lungs.
Breathe in through your nose. You will find this very refreshing as their was no air in your lungs, but try to breathe normally. Don’t take a very deep breath, but instead take a breath as you normally would.Repeat the process of inhaling through the nose and exhaling through the mouth. Do this as many times as you like. It will help refresh you and make you more alert.However, if you feel dizzy, try taking a break or making your exhalations slower., In Eastern medicine it is believed that breathing low in the belly is better than using the shoulders to breathe.Lie down on your back. Once you get the hang of it, you will be able to do this no matter whether you are sitting, laying down, or standing.However, it’s good to start in this position so you know how it should feel.
Rest one of your hands low on your belly, beneath your belly button with a flat, open hand. Take a few normal breaths to relax.Take a deep breath, and then forcefully exhale. The point here is to try and push your hand up with your belly during the exhalation. Your hips and back should not move.Repeat this step until you get the hang of moving your hand using only your breathing.
 This may sound strange, but it will help you to experience what chi feels like. It involves breaking your inhalation and exhalation down into 4 parts.Begin by sitting in a peaceful, relaxed position. If you choose to sit up, make sure you have good posture. Take a few breaths to relax. If you have mastered belly breathing, then do that. However, if you have not, just breathe normally for a few breaths to relax.Choose an amount of time for your breaths. A good place to start is 5 seconds for inhalation and 5 seconds for exhalation. You can add or subtract time from this if you need.
Breathe in for the amount of time you have chosen (i.e. 5 seconds), then spend 5 seconds without inhaling or exhaling (don’t tense up your body here!). Follow this with 5 seconds of slowly exhaling, and another 5 seconds where you stop exhaling and don’t inhale either.Focus on the experience of continually breathing in a square. The feeling you get from this is chi.