 The first mod that comes to mind when modifying a car’s interior are seat covers. You can also use it to protect the original interior upholstery. They are available in different materials such as leather, neoprene, sheepskin, canvas and vinyl. Most car owners go for leather seat covers because of its luxurious look. Neoprene seat covers are also popular nowadays because of its easy-to-clean, water-resistant material. It makes use of a high-end rubber material that is also used for wetsuits.
 The dashboard can now be improved with customized dash trim kits and covers that come in different finishes such as carbon fiber, leather, wood grain, aluminum and camouflage., They can be easily installed to match the color and theme of your car’s interior., Custom dials and gauges can now replace a vehicle’s boring, stock dashboard dials. The most common styles are available in chrome, carbon fiber, polished housing, and completely digital dials., Nowadays, the stock steering wheels can be improved by using steering wheel covers. They come in different designs and materials such as cloth, leather, sheepskin, wool, vinyl, rubber, mesh, terrycloth and wood grip. The steering wheel can also be completely replaced with aftermarket options that come in different materials such as carbon fiber, brushed steel and leather.,  They can be customized to match your car interior’s look. There are also ready to install options such as nonslip shift knobs and weighted shift knobs. Most are made of materials like plastic and chrome.  While custom parking brake levers come in different options such as billet aluminum, carbon fiber and polished stainless steel., Sporty and race-car themed brake pads are the most popular option.  Most feature an easy bolt on installation., Floor liners are more favored nowadays, because they are easier to clean. Not only do they protect the vehicle floor from drink spillage, food particles and other debris, they can be easily kept clean by just wiping with dry or wet cloth or washed off with soap and water., They can be installed to illuminate different areas of the car such as the foot well, dashboard and even the area underneath the car seat. They are available different colors and lighting effects.