 A trolley jack is not designed to support the weight of the vehicle while you work under it. Instead, trolley jacks are intended to raise the vehicle’s height so you can safely place jack stands beneath it. Never place a part of your body beneath a vehicle supported only by a jack.As jacks get older, they often begin to leak.
A leaking jack will lower the vehicle back onto the ground at a rate that can be unpredictable.
 Before working on the car you jacked up, slide a jack stand beneath the car at a designated jack point. Jack stands are designed to support a great deal of weight and once in place they make it impossible for the vehicle to lower back to the ground. Lift the top of the jack stand until it’s at the height you prefer (slightly lower than the vehicle currently is) and slide it beneath a jack point.You can purchase jack stands at your local auto parts store.
If you are jacking up the entire front or back of the vehicle, use a jack stand on each side.
 With the jack stand in place, use the jack’s handle or a pair of pliars to slowly turn the valve on the jack counter clockwise. Be very careful, as the jack will lower the vehicle faster the further the valve opens. Make sure the jack stands are positioned properly before allowing the vehicle’s weight to rest on them.If the jack stand is not positioned properly, raise the car again slightly and reposition it.
Ensure all four legs of the jack stand are firmly on the ground and level before working beneath the car.
Remove the jack while working on the car to prevent it from being raised off of the jack stands by accident.
 Once you’ve finished working on your car, slide the jack back into place beneath the vehicle. Close the valve completely, then raise and lower the handle until you have jacked the car up off of the jack stand. Once the weight of the vehicle is off of the stand, remove it and lower the car back to the ground. Make sure the jack stands are clear of the car before lowering it back to the ground.

