 Select a general idea of the theme of your show. Some themes that were done in the past include a spelling bee, rock and roll show, and a beach party.;
, Sesame Place has a wide variety of costumed characters to be used in these shows. It is a good idea to select no more than seven costumed characters for your show. This is because the space in each theater is small and the stage needs to have room for the set, props, and furry characters to dance!


Elmo is a character that you must include in any Sesame Place show. He usually saves the day in the plot and the story revolves around some of his ideas. Elmo is the character that most kids would like to see in the shows.
Big Bird is a giant yellow bird in costume. He is very hard to perform, so it's best not to include him in the story. He can really only perform in the main big theater where Elmo's rock band currently performs because he is too tall and takes up a large amount of space on the stage.
The Count is really only to be used in Halloween specials. Very rarely makes entrances in the park or stage shows.
Zoe is a female character who enjoys ballet. It is important to have at least one girl and one guy in each show to create the fullest diversity.
Human characters are in every show there ever was at Sesame Place. There is typically at most two humans in each show as well as 6-7 costumed characters. Their names must be Jamie, Kay, etc., so any actor could portray them without character limitations.
 Make sure to include a balance of lines between characters with Elmo and the human characters having the most lines. Keep it simple and full of singing. Make sure all jokes or language is appropriate for children under three, but some adult jokes are allowed, such as having Dads dance on stage with Elmo. This is appropriate as it allows the rest of the older audience to enjoy the show. The shows that stay around for a long time are ones that all ages can laugh at and enjoy. If you can get the whole audience to dance and sing, then you have a hit!

, Certain theaters can only hold so many people and are made for smaller shows. If a ton of characters are in it, then Big Bird's theater is the way to go. If your show is not "fully developed" or you are going to use a smaller set, then the playground theater is the way to go. Elmo's Theater is mainly used for Elmo's World Live and should only be used for that. So if you have an outdoor show, you probably shouldn't use the indoor stage!

, It's easy to just make changes to the indoor stage to fit Elmo's world live since the main set is there already, but constructing a new set to fit the performance of other shows can be difficult. You need to make sure the set is workable for the characters and allows them to move and dance. Keeping the show set to one is the best way to go because there is no stage crew and you don't want to make it hard for the actors to switch sets. A simple flap to lift for a finale is fine but don't go overboard!

, Once you have all of your voice actors in the recording studio, simply record the script as you wrote it. Wherever there is a human speaking, just leave a short pause in the track instead of recording the human voice. This way multiple humans can play the same part and play it live with a microphone in place versus trying to move their lips to sync to another person's voice.
 Once your show is all set to go, practice your performance after park hours to get the choreography down pat. Now is the time to let the show go on and amuse hundreds of kids from around the world!

