

As of December, 2016 the following apps support importing a private key from a paper wallet:

Blockchain.info
Airbitz
Mycelium
Breadwallet


For the sake of clarity, this article will use Blockchain.info, although the techniques will be similar on each app.;
, Follow the instructions provided on the screen of your app., This is a crucial step! Almost all bitcoin wallets will create a 6 -24 word phrase that you can use to backup and restore your wallet. The backup phrase is not the same as the password for your app. If you lose the backup phrase, you may lose your bitcoins forever! In addition, if someone else has access to that backup phrase they can steal all your bitcoins, so secure that phrase like it was a gold nugget.

Write it on paper with a pen. Do not take a screenshot of the phrase. Do not write or store the phrase on any computer or phone. Computer hackers can easily steal your bitcoins if they find your phrase.
 This differs on each app you are using. If you are using Blockchain.info, go to the home page of the app and press the menu icon in the upper left of the screen.
, This is instructing the app that you want to import another address.
 The private key is the collection of around 60 random letters and numbers shown by the QR code. Some paper wallets designate the private key as the "secret" side of the wallet., This initiates the process of bringing your paper wallet into your app. If you stop here, your Blockchain app will have access to your paper wallet funds, but the funds will continue to remain on your paper wallet as well. This state isn't secure, so proceed to the next step., This will send 100% of the funds in your paper wallet to your app. This step will cost you a small amount of bitcoin to pay the bitcoin miners for doing the transaction for you.
 You now have all the contents of your paper wallet on your phone. From here, you can easily send any portion of your bitcoin to any bitcoin address in the world. If you want to send bitcoin to another location, tap send from your app and send the coin to any address you would like.