 Head to the Shrine of Mehrunes and complete the “Mehrunes’ Razor” side quest. When you do, two Daedras will spawn. They will chase after you, but don’t worry: they are unarmed, and you can simply kill them. Kill them and take their hearts and the key to the shrine.


If you find killing the Daedras difficult, try running around the altar backward while shooting or casting magic on them. You can also use a blade.;
, Enter the shrine, where you will see two more Daedras. Kill them as well, and take their hearts.


The Daedras inside the shrine include a mage and a two-hander. Kill the mage first; he’s more dangerous.
While you’re in the shrine, you can also obtain some ebony ingots. From the door, look toward the left side of the room. You’ll see a small crate with ebony ingots inside. Take them! They will come in handy.
If you let a week pass (within the game) and come back to the Shrine of Mehrunes, the Daedras will spawn again. Every week, you can pick up two more hearts.
 You can also steal a heart. Travel to Whiterun and enter the Companions’ Hall of Jorrvaskr. Walk to your right and down the stairs to enter the living quarters. Head down the long hallway and into the room at the end of it, and you will see a Daedra heart on top of the table on your left.


If your stealth level is low, wait for all the people in the Companions’ Hall to fall asleep before you steal the heart.
 You must complete the “Dark Brotherhood” side quest first. Then travel to Dawnstar Sanctuary and look for a black door with a skull carved on it. Inside you will find an NPC (Non-Player Character) who will sell you Daedra hearts.


There is some luck involved in this method. The NPC will not sell Daedra hearts all the time.
 Enter the Hall of Attainment in the center of the College of Winterhold. Talk to Enthir and ask him, “What’s not allowed here?” When you do, he will sell you a Daedra heart.


Note that this method will no longer work once you finish the “College of Winterhold” side quest and become an archmage. After that, Enthir will no longer sell you hearts.
 If you go to Whiterun and enter Belethor’s store, he will have some ebony ingots for sale.
 Once you exit Belethor’s store, head up the stairs. At the top, go down the flight of stairs to your right. Head north until you see the Warmaiden’s shop. The man at the counter will sell you ebony ingots.
 During the day, you can find Adrianne Avenicci in front of the Warmaiden’s shop. She will also sell you ebony ingots.
 If you don’t want to buy the ingots, you can craft them. Go to Windhelm and head southwest. Keep walking until you see a stronghold guided by an orc. Skip through the dialogue and ask the orc to let you in. Once inside the small orc village of Narzulbur, walk further east past the bridge, where you will find Gloombound Mine. Take a pickax, mine the ebony ores, and then head outside to smelt your ingots.


Note that you will need two ebony ores to craft one ebony ingot.
 Leather strips are readily available in any blacksmith store. They cost only about three gold per piece.
 You can also craft the strips yourself. Use the tanning rack available in any blacksmith’s house.


Note that you will need one leather piece to make four leather strips.
 Once you have gathered all the materials, go to any forge you like. Once there, scroll down your list of craftable items, and choose Daedric Armor (also note that your smithing attribute must be at least 90).

