 If your child has trust and faith in you, it will make your whole relationship better. If you can assume good faith in your child, your child is more likely to feel comfortable spending time with you and trust you in return.;
, If your child is ever being bullied, then understand that it is not his/her fault. Always fight for your child's rights. While discipline is important, it's even more important that you realize you are your child's number one advocate. When they're in trouble, help them find their way out. When they need support, support them. These actions build trusting relationships that last a lifetime.
 Never scold them just because you are annoyed or frustrated. Apologize if you overreact. Lead by example, and discipline in ways that avoid punishment for punishment's sake. Encourage and support them in making better choices. Avoiding a punishment and fear-fueled approach to discipline will improve your whole relationship with your child and increase the likelihood that he or she will want to spend time with you, now and in the future.
 Need to go to the grocery store? Bring him/her along to the market. Ask your child to help you pick items off the shelf, put them in the trolley, pack them, and carry the bags home. Include your child in the shopping and errand decisions, and talk to him/her about what you're doing. Make the whole even a little sweeter by letting him/her pick out a few treats at the store, too!

, Do it often, and make it fun. Look for all opportunities to laugh and enjoy each other's company. Do a silly dance while you're helping your child in the bathroom, sing a song with him/her while you're driving to the market, and spend a few minutes on the playground swings with him/her after school. At home, get down to their level to play - turn away from the TV, the computer, or your phone and engage in one-on-one play with your kid. You might be surprised how much fun it can be.
 Take the time to read together - it's great for their learning, and it's great for bonding. Whether you have a baby or toddler or a school-aged kid, reading to him/her or having him/her read to you is a great way to spend time together. If you've got a tablet/computer-happy modern whiz kid, then consider an e-book on your Kindle or iPad, but either way, spend that quality time together, reading for a few minutes at least once a day.
 Look to their interests and build on them. Start with simple drawings and paintings, and then follow their lead. Are they really into horses? Paint some horses, cut them out, and glue on yarn for the manes and tails. Is your child asking about winter and snow? Make some paper snowflakes, build some play dough or clay snowmen, and construct a winter wonderland. There are no right or wrong projects to do - and arts and crafts can be quick activities that take 5-10 minutes, or multi-day projects that you work on together over time. Let your child's creativity lead the way!

, Some parents opt to avoid TV altogether - and that's totally okay. But if you do turn the tube on from time to time, then opt to watch with your kid. Don't just turn it on as a distraction or to keep your child busy. Make some time to sit and watch your favorite cartoons together, or have a movie night where you watch both your favorite Pixar movies or Harry Potter films. Pop some popcorn, order some pizza, and turn it into a bonding opportunity.
 When your child shows an interest in something totally foreign to you, it may be tempting to redirect them towards a hobby you're more familiar with. Don't! Jump in and join them in their exploration. If your kid is into the idea of playing guitar, sign up to take guitar lessons together. If your child has to learn a new language at school, pick up the textbook and learn the basics alongside him or her. It's a great reason to talk - practice your foreign conversation skills!

, Do activities that are fun for him or her, not just for you. It's important to get on your child's level - both actually (physically bend down and get on the floor to play!) and developmentally (play with age-appropriate toys, and don't be afraid to be silly!). Does your child like the Ninja Turtles? Then dress in green and spend some time being Michelangelo to your kid's Leonardo! Does your child like playing princess and dress-up? Then get ready for a princess makeover.


Don't forget their meal and drink preferences, too. Don't expect your child to love the same crepe cafe or salad bar you do. While being healthy is important, it's also important to indulge a little from time to time, especially while bonding. Go for some fast food on occasion, or get an ice-cream together. They'll remember and appreciate the treat!







, You can start small, especially with young kids who might not be ready for big events. Attend story-time at the local library, or a magic show at the local community center or kids' theater. Then work up to a really special event. There are plays, musicals, and other stage productions aimed at the preschool crowd, and for the older kids, a mainstream musical or concert can be great fun. If your child is old enough to want friends along, bring them, too. Just remember to make sure it's an event your kid will want to attend!

, Throw a party for your kid's birthday and significant achievements. You can go big and invite all your family and friends, or you can keep it small and intimate, with immediate family. But recognize the milestones in their life, and be with them to mark those important occasions.


Even better, ask them exactly how they want to celebrate, and make it memorable. If your child is into fairies, host a Tinkerbell-themed birthday party where you all build fairy houses together from gardening and craft supplies (invite kids and their parents, for bonding opportunities all around!). If your child is a sports fan, commemorate their good grades with a trip to see the local football or basketball team play their big rivals. Whether it's a local league or a national match-up, you can make it memorable and fun.
 Take your child to the park, a vacation spot, picnic spot, beach or other places he/she likes. Show them new sights, and enjoy fun activities together. Disneyland and other theme parks are always great go-to travel destinations, but you can find kid-friendly attractions in almost any city.


Avoid vacations where you plan your whole itinerary around adult-friendly events and attractions, like museums and art galleries. It's great to expose your kids to some cultural sights, but in spending time with your child on vacation, it's also important to consider what activities will result in memories they cherish. You want them to enjoy the trip, too - not just throw tantrums or resent being dragged along to venues they couldn't care less about.

