 Pregnancy is scary for teens. As you move forward with your teen's pregnancy, allow her to vent to you. She should be able to come to you with fears, frustrations, and concerns throughout the process of making a decision about the pregnancy. Listen to what she has to say without judgment and allow her to feel what she's feeling, good or bad., After you discuss your teen's pregnancy with her, you'll need to help her form a plan. Essentially, she has three options: keeping the baby, giving it up for adoption, or having an abortion. Help her weigh the pros and cons of each option so she can make an informed decision she will be comfortable with.


If there is a health center for teens in your area, you may want to take your teenager there to talk to a doctor or counselor. You may not have all the necessary information about abortion, adoption, and teen pregnancy at your disposal.
Remember, allow your teen to make her own decision. Even if you have your own strong feelings about the situation, this is your daughter's baby. She needs to make a decision that sits well with her.
 In the event your daughter decides to carry the baby to term, it's important you get her prenatal care. You'll need to have regular prenatal visits with a doctor to monitor the baby's health. You'll also need to stock up on prenatal vitamins and work on establishing a healthy diet and exercise routine. Make an appointment with a doctor as soon as possible if your daughter decides to keep the baby. This way, your daughter and her doctor can develop a health and lifestyle plan for the baby's wellbeing., If your daughter wants to keep the baby, help her confront the difficult questions. There are a a lot of factors to consider during a teen pregnancy. Guide your daughter as she makes a variety of decisions regarding her baby.


Consider the father. What role will he play in the baby's life? Will he and your daughter stay together romantically? What will the baby's last name be? Where will your daughter live after the baby is born?Consider things like school. Will your daughter finish school? Who will watch the baby while she's at class? Can your or another family member help out with childcare while your daughter finishes high school? What about college? Is this a possibility?Also take your financial situation into account. Who will support the baby financially? Are you able to assist your daughter financially? What about the baby's father and his parents? Can they help out with medical bills and the costs of childcare?, As teen pregnancy can be stressful for your family, it's a good idea to find a family therapist. You can ask your regular doctor for a referral or ask your insurance company for a list of providers in your network. A qualified family therapist can help you and your family cope with the stress of a teen pregnancy.

