 For the purposes of planning a diet, food is divided into four groups — vegetables and fruit, grain products, milk and alternatives, and meat and alternatives. Your gender and age will determine exactly how many servings of each group you will need each day. You can see the recommended number of food guide servings per day, per gender and per age group here.


Abdominal muscles are mostly impacted by your diet. Remember that a balanced diet full of fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, whole grains and healthy fats is essential to creating a killer stomach.
A “serving” differs depending on the food group and the type of food.Examples of one serving of fruits or vegetables are: 1/2 cup of juice, 1 cup of raw vegetables, or 1 piece of fruit.
Examples of one serving of grains are: 1 slice of bread, 1/2 a bagel/pita/tortilla, 1/2 cup of cooked rice or pasta, or 30 grams of cold cereal.
Examples of one serving of milk products are: 1 cup of milk, 3/4 cups of yogurt, 50 grams of cheese.
Examples of one serving of meat products are: 3/4 cups of cooked beans, two eggs, two tablespoons of peanut butter, or 1/2 cup of cooked fish, chicken or other lean meat.
 Healthy eating includes the recommended daily servings, regardless of the number of calories you’re aiming to eat. Which items you select from each food group to meet your daily requirements will differ depending on whether you're trying to maintain your weight, gain weight, or lose weight.Remember that if your abs are covered by a layer of fat, you will not see them no matter how many exercises you do. You need to lose that body fat.


If you want to maintain your weight, you need to eat as many calories as you burn every day.
If you want to gain weight, you need to eat more calories than your body burns every day.
If you want to lose weight, you need to eat less calories than your body burns every day.
To lose 1 pound of body fat, you need to consume 3,500 less calories than you burn. The healthy way to do this is over the course of a week, at minimum. This means you want to eat 500 less calories than you burn every day.
Use a journal to keep track of everything you eat, so you can determine the number of calories you’re currently eating every day.
 In an ideal situation, you should plan all your meals in advance so you can ensure you’re meeting all your recommended daily servings of all the food groups. Planning ahead also allows you to know exactly what you need to buy at the grocery store, helping you to avoid browsing and buying unhealthy items.If you’re trying to lose weight, your planning process could also include calorie calculations for each meal, and each day.


If you’re able to plan in advance, you might also be able to do some prep or cooking in advance too. You could save yourself a lot of time later in the week by doing this.
 To help you decide what fruits and vegetables to eat everyday, plan to have at least one dark green vegetable (i.e. broccoli, spinach, romaine lettuce, etc.) and one orange vegetable (i.e. carrots, sweet potatoes, squash, etc.) per day. When shopping for processed fruits and vegetables, buy the ones made with little or no added salt, sugar, or fat. Steam, bake or stir-fry vegetables, rather than fry them. Stay away from fruit juices as much as you can., When buying grain products, whether at a grocery store or a restaurant, try to select the whole grain or brown version when possible. Many products such as rice, pasta, cereal, and breads come in a whole grain variety. When selecting grain products, also aim to eat those low in fat, sugar and salt, when possible.The same concepts work if you’re baking grain products yourself. Choose whole wheat or other types of whole grain flour. Use recipes that call for lower amounts of salt, sugar, and fat.
 Most milk and dairy products come in “regular” and “low-fat” versions. Drink skim or 1% milk — and try to drink at least 2 cups of milk every day. Also consider buying milk that has added vitamin D. Use lower fat cream cheese, sour cream, and cottage cheese. Look for low-fat yogurt, and those made without added sugar., The meat food group doesn’t include just meat. But when you do eat meat, try to buy the lean versions, or trim the extra fat from your meat before you cook it. Roast, bake, or poach your meat instead of frying it. Select the low-salt versions of processed meats, like those you’d buy for sandwiches. Eat at least two servings of fish every week. Consider adding more meat alternatives to your diet, such as beans and tofu.