 Adriana is in great shape. She has to be. She’s a Victoria’s Secret model. She hired a professional nutritionist, though, to help her lose 50 pounds after she gave birth to her daughter.


Buy a scale. Hold yourself accountable for what you eat and how you let yourself go.She thinks high-intensity workouts are best. She likes to sweat and to jump rope. Ten minutes of jumping rope equals 35 minutes of running. She says you can burn 1,000 calories per hour long jumping rope session.
 To look as fit as Adriana, you have to clean up your diet. Eat a lot of steamed or raw vegetables, especially green ones like kale and broccoli. Season them with olive oil and sea salt.


She doesn’t snack. But if you must, eat fruit. She suggests blackberries and blueberries. She eats green vegetables usually, steamed or raw. Things like asparagus and spinach.
Eat every two to three hours. Drink at least two quarts of water daily. Take supplemental vitamins. If you get hungry, try a rice bar., When she’s about to go on a show, she works out twice a day with a personal trainer. She jumps rope, boxes, and lifts weights.


She also sees a nutritionist who measured her body’s muscle mass and levels of water retention. She drinks protein shakes, vitamins and supplements. She drinks a gallon of water every day. For nine days before the show, she drinks only protein shakes that include powder egg.
She was once quoted as saying that, two days before a fashion show, she stops drinking extra water. However, she claimed she was misquoted.
 Not only is this dangerous, but it’s not Adriana’s look, either. She stresses to her trainers that she wants to retain some curves.


One exercise she did to get into shape after she had her baby is called the Aerosquat. To perform it, bend down. Touch the index and middle finger of both hands to the ground. Keep your hands on the opposite sides of your left foot.
While keeping your knee bent, raise your right foot off the ground. Tilt your weight to your left side. Squat with your left leg. Keep your fingers touching the ground. Straighten your leg again. Repeat for one minute per leg on both legs the first day, then 30 seconds per leg on both legs the second day. Try this daily.The move will lift the butt and sculpt your upper quad. She thinks drinking a lot of water and exercising regularly are very important. Water is a natural detox.