 Lay a mat out on a flat surface, and sit on it in no particular position (though the normal meditation position is most comfortable).


Close your eyes, and let it all go. Problems, worries, needs, just let them sail far away. Imagine you are in a calm place, free from worry, free from life. Start taking deep breaths.






You will soon go into a state of "Ultra-Rest," and when you awaken your mind, you will feel more refreshed then ever before.






Once you are awake, note your surroundings and your feelings are of a mentally relaxed state. Repeat this Mental Focus process twice, then continue on with your day.





;
,


Set up your mat again, and sit in a comfortable position as you did last time. Begin to focus on the nothingness once again. When you awaken from the Focus, close your eyes, and listen. Listen to the sounds around you. To the bird chirping, the bees buzzing... Every little sound you hear, register them completely.






Once you have done this, find one sound, and just focus on it. Focus on every aspect of it, every little detail. Is it natural? Is it alive? Is it nearby? By doing this, you focus all of your energy toward that one sound; therefore, blocking out all others, and listening (in greater detail than ever before) to that one sound. Repeat this three times on a variety of sounds.



Perform your normal Mind Relax process, then sit for a minute, focusing on sounds again. Once this is done, slowly open your eyes, and look at something specific, (e.g. a bird in nest, a pen standing in a holder, etc.)






Focus in on the bird, noting every little detail you see. What color is the bird? Is it multicolored? Is it beautiful? Focus on everything, until you can close your eyes, and paint a mental picture of the bird flawlessly. Repeat this step three times on different objects.



Do everything as usual, and when you come out of the Mind Relax, keep your eyes closed, take a deep breath through your nose. What do you smell? Separate every little smell, and define each of them. What is it? Bread fresh out of the oven, or grilled steak? Repeat this three times with different smells.



This one requires a friend, or a companion, who must also be practicing the Ultra Focus method. Each of you must perform the Mind Relax process, then have your friend blindfold you, and bring out a plate of good food, (prepared prior to commencing the session.) He/she has to give you a piece of each item, have you sample them, and have you guess what it is. You should score a 100% if you did the other steps right. When you finish, see how many you got right. It will most likely be 100%.



This step also requires that you have a friend who is also practicing this method. Have your friend blindfold you and have him/her hand you different objects to touch. Whether it is a warm glass of water or an ice cube, just have your friend make the object come contact with your skin, and then you try to feel the same feeling you felt after removing that object.







