 Annual vet exams are essential to maintaining the health of your senior cat. Some vision problems are associated with underlying conditions, like high blood pressure or hyperthyroidism, and only proper veterinary care can deal with these conditions.Others, like glaucoma, progress gradually and subtly, making it difficult to spot them when you check your cat’s eyes on your own., You should check your senior cat’s eyes on a weekly or biweekly basis. As a general rule, you should not have a “wait and see” attitude when it comes to cat eye problems. Bringing your cat to the vet at the first sign of vision problems could spare it significant pain and save its vision., The vet will most likely prescribe eye drops to treat infections or relieve the symptoms of glaucoma.It can be a frustrating process, but you’ll have to hold the cat down, open its eyelid, hold the dropper just above the eye (without touching it) to administer the medication, then keep the cat still for several minutes.


Ask the vet to show you firsthand how to give your cat eye drops or if they have any tips.
The vet may prescribe oral medications to treat high blood pressure, kidney disease, hyperthyroidism, and other underlying causes of vision problems. Make sure you administer any medication as directed by the vet., There are medications that can prevent or delay cataract-related blindness. Cataracts can also result from high blood pressure or diabetes, so ask the vet if they recommend treatment for these conditions. If a cataract has completely blocked light from passing through the lens, the vet might recommend surgery.Cataract surgery is usually more common in kittens and in mature cats under age 10. If you’re considering surgery for your senior cat, ask the vet, “Is my cat a qualified candidate for lens replacement? Do the risks and costs make surgery a less desirable option?”
It might be preferable to take steps to make your senior cat more comfortable instead of taking on the risks and expenses associated with surgery.

