 Not surprisingly, alcohol causes people to do things they wouldn't do otherwise because it lowers inhibitions.


Don't drink with people not your spouse. If you must attend an after-work gathering, for example, take your spouse along.
Sometimes people drink before cheating to give themselves a ready-made excuse. Don't use the "alcohol made me do it" excuse. The alcohol and cheating are camouflaging deeper problems. Avoid places where alcohol and strangers collide, like parties and bars, unless your significant other is along.
 It's dangerous to hang out with friends who are cheating or who enable cheating.


Pick married friends or friends who are also in committed relationships. Don't meet friends you might be attracted to without others there. Try to have couples' friends not friends your spouse doesn't know.
 Although many children make it through divorces and thrive in life, there is no question that infidelity and divorce can be difficult on children. Imagine your behavior on the front page of the newspaper. Would you be OK with your children reading about it? If the answer is no, you probably shouldn't do it.
If you must leave a relationship, don't cheat before you do. It will make the divorce process much more acrimonious, which is bad for children.
 Many affairs start in the workplace, in part because people spend so much time with people with whom they have a common interest there.


Don't ride in cars alone with a co-worker.
Keep conversation strictly business-related.
Working late too much provides an environment for cheating and will worry your significant other. It also shows a lack of prioritization of the relationship. Engage with co-workers in groups, not one-on-one.
Get to know the families and significant others of your co-workers, and let them know yours.
 Some people cheat because they feel emotionally neglected at home. However, there are steps you can take to increase emotional connection with your significant other.


Create touch points throughout the day, in which you email or call or make an intimate gesture. It's likely, you will receive one back.
If your emotional needs are not being met, don't keep it to yourself. Express it. Tell your significant other what you need.
 If you hesitate at all when revealing your level of commitment, you could be sending signals to people that you're available.


Wear your wedding ring.
Make your relationship clear on social media.
If you find yourself hesitating when asked about your relationship by saying something like "it's complicated," you're leaving a door open.
Make it clear to any temptations that you are not available.
 The Internet is a dangerous environment for relationships. The Internet makes it easy for exes or other people to have access to you.


People on social networking are at more risk for cheating. Share passwords with your spouse or significant other.
Pornography is easier to access on the Internet and can lead to cheating in real life. Don't guard your phone. Let your significant other have access to your phone, and don't password protect it. If you're unwilling to answer calls in front of your significant other, you've got a problem., Cheating isn't always physical. Emotional cheating can be just as destructive. Understand what emotional cheating actually is because this can be key to preventing it.


If you're communicating with someone in secret or lying about the nature of the communications, you're in a danger zone. It's the amount of communication that matters here, not just the content. Is most of your communication with someone not your significant other?
Don't share confidences with someone not your significant other, especially secrets your significant other doesn't know.
If you laugh a lot with a person, make eye contact, dress up for them, and find yourself excited to see them, you could be having an emotional affair.

