 Tomatoes are rich sources of vitamins A, C, and folic acid. They contain a wide array of antioxidants, lycopene, choline, beta-carotene, and lutein. Tomatoes have the added advantage of complimenting pretty much any meal. Eat them whole, slice them up, dice them into small cubes, or puree them and add them to your favorite soup. A single tomato normally only costs around 22 calories, but as a superfood — replete with so many things your body needs — they can be a filling food., Meats have gotten a bad rap in the health community in the last decade or so. This is probably a result of the “skinny” craze. Many nutritionists now tell their clients to eat a protein rich diet for two reasons. First, Protein is far more filling than most other foods. Studies have even shown that eating a protein rich diet can reduce cravings by 60%. Second, your body actually burns more calories a day, simply by eating more proteins. The energy expended to process these protein heavy foods — lean meats specifically — will give you an extra window of 80 to 100 calories a day. This is not a license to eat that much more a day, but it is “food for thought”., Cruciferous vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, and cabbage are extremely high in fiber. So are beans and lentils. Eat a cup of fiber-rich yogurt in the morning to add a quick boost of fiber to your diet. Just make sure that the yogurt you choose isn’t made with a lot of unhealthy sugars and dyes.


Raspberries are a great source of fiber too. They also have the ability to lower cholesterol. One cup of raspberries has 8 grams of fiber.Doctors recommend that women consume around 25 grams of fiber per day and 38 grams per day for men.
In particular, fiber-rich foods help fill you up, without filling you out. They have the same weight as other foods, but don’t cost as many calories. So if you are used to eating a big breakfast every morning, try changing out that bowl of sugary cereal for a nice yogurt. See if you are equally full afterwards., If you can handle the heat, studies have shown that the capsaicin in chili peppers can reduce appetite and increase fat burning. You can even buy capsaicin in supplement form at many commercial weight loss centers or your local pharmacy. Add some chilis to your pastas, sandwiches, and salads. They can give any meal a little boost of flavor., Contrary to popular opinion, eating a low-fat diet is not the key to losing weight. The “low-fat” food craze isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. Many “fat-free” labels mask foods high in sugar, refined carbohydrates, and calories, used to enhance the taste. In general, there are two good fats — monounsaturated and polyunsaturated. Avoid trans fats and saturated fats. Good fats come from many oils (e.g. olive oil, sunflower oil, peanut oil), peanut butter, avocados, tofu, and other kinds of nuts.Add some omega-3 fats to your diet too. Good sources of omega-3 fats are fish, walnuts, ground flax seeds, flaxseed oil and soybean oil.Omega 3 fats are processed into energy, which is great for weight loss., Foods that are high in fat and/or sugar are disastrous for a 1,500 per day calorie plan. Donuts, candy, potato chips, ice cream, and other tasty treats are high in calories and offer few beneficial nutrients. Don't waste your valuable calories, which could be used to fill you up, on food "fluff"., One of the biggest complaints from those on diets is that their food is simply tasteless. Use more herbs and spices like cumin, basil, and coriander. Stay away from salt, which can lead to water retention. You should only be consuming roughly 6 grams of salt a day. Avoid foods that are high in sodium.Low-fat, low calorie food can be hard to eat day after day. Some of the flavor in common foods comes from the fat, but to stick to 1,500 calories a day you need to eliminate much of your fat intake.


Use freshly toasted nuts to add taste and texture to your meals. Pine nuts pair well with spinach and other sautéed greens. Walnuts work for salads and couscous. If you want to make your own toasted nuts, just set your toaster oven to 250 °F (121 °C), place your nuts on a baking sheet, and cook for four to six minutes.Grate a sharp romano cheese on your salad, vegetables, or rice to give your food a nice cheesy taste.
Add dried fruits like cranberries and figs to add flavor.
Add low-sodium marinade to give foods a sweet and tangy taste., There are many such repositories online that cater to particular tastes. There are menus for fish lovers/haters, vegetarians, smoothie addicts, or anyone else with particular culinary preferences.Here is one 1500 calorie menu:


Breakfast:

2 eggs cooked in 1 tsp coconut oil
½ cup spinach
1 oz feta cheese
1 slice of whole grain toast


Snack:

1 cup of plain low-fat Greek Yogurt
1 cup of fresh berries
10 unsalted almonds


Lunch:

1 cup of romaine lettuce
1 cup of non-starchy vegetables (tomatoes, broccoli, bell peppers, cucumbers)
3 oz of grilled chicken
2 tablespoons of balsamic vinaigrette dressing
1 apple


Snack

10 baby carrots
2 tablespoons of hummus


Dinner

4 oz of salmon
1 medium sweet potato
½ cup of steamed vegetables
1 tsp olive oil


Dessert

1 square of dark chocolate



