 You don’t have to put on a false façade in order to get noticed by others.It is okay to be introverted or shy. We are all different and not everyone can be super outgoing and social at every moment. Respect who you are and love yourself for your unique shyness. Lots of people think being shy is sweet and attractive; not everyone is drawn to the life of the party.


Acknowledging your shyness can actually increase the positive impression you make on people.Also, explaining that you are working on your shyness can increase positivity further and help you get noticed.;
, Dress in a way that reflects your personality and inner beauty.Sometimes we can get stuck in our own fashion habits and forget to explore new ways of expressing ourselves through clothing and jewelry.


If you like bright colors you can wear yellow, orange, or pink colors instead of the basic blacks, browns, blues, grays, and whites.
Try not to overdo it (by wearing too much makeup or flashy, outrageous clothing); you want to get noticed for who you are and not in a negative way.
If it makes you feel more unique or confident, you can try out a new haircut, color, or style.
 Many people who are shy may want to stand up against the wall or shrink away in the back of the room. Don't hide behind anything; get out in the middle of the room where you are more likely to get noticed!


If you are concerned with being alone or feeling awkward, find someone you know and go stand next to and interact with him.
 Non-verbal communication makes up a lot of our communication.So, it is especially crucial to focus on the impression you are making with your body.


Smile and use other positive facial expressions such as attentiveness. Mirror other people's emotions; this can show that you are understanding.
Keep your arms and legs uncrossed. Crossed arms or legs shows that you are closed off. It can even send the signal that you are angry.
Instead of shrinking down or displaying a slumped posture, take up as much space as possible with your body; this shows confidence and power.
Haptics, or communicating through touch is a useful way to stand out and let people know you like them.You can give hugs, high-fives, or put your hand on someone's shoulder. Make sure it is appropriate and the person doesn't mind if you touch him.

