 Editing is where a bunch of random footage becomes a tense, well-wrought adventure, and the best way to learn is from the masters. One suggestion is to take notes not only of what happens, but the minute it happens on. When do action scenes occur? How far apart are they? How do editors build up the tension to keep you on the edge of your seat?


You'll notice that most action movies have a very specific rhythm. The build excitement and energy from the get-go with quick scenes and lots of movement, but temper it with 3-4 moments of quiet, allowing the audience to catch its breath before the next big action scene.
 Editing is when dramatic irony becomes your best friend. Dramatic irony is when the audience knows something that the character doesn't. We might see the outline of the villain, but the characters can't. Master director Alfred Hitchcock talks about having a bomb under the table the characters don't know about. By cutting between the ticking clock, the action hero rushing to save them, and the unawares victims, you build great tension and suspense. Just blowing up the bomb is surprising, but only for a fleeting moment.Think of the climax of The Dark Knight, as we cut between the boat with the Joker's victims, Batman, and the police's desperate attempts to do something.
 Unless you've got dedicated stunt people willing to take a real punch, you'll need to be an expert editor to make an action scene look good. Go for quick cuts, rapidly cutting between the tussling bodies, as this leads to a frantic, high-energy fight or action scene the moves along quickly. Watch any action movie and notice how short each shot is -- the faster the cut, the faster the action feels.


If you can, however, pay to go slow. The Borne Ultimatum features a now-famous fight scene that hardly cuts at all. The result showed the brutality of the fight, as if even the camera/editor couldn't flinch and turn away.
 This is the hardest part of any action movie, as modern adventures are shot with millions of dollars of poured into special effects. This can make it nearly impossible to get any great effects, but that doesn't mean that some work with Adobe AfterEffects, Maya, or any other effects software would hurt if you have some experience. You can also put any footage on your green screen now to complete it.


Play with the built-in effects, including screen distortions and filters, especially in key moments. One common one, for example, is to blur/shake the screen when someone gets punched.
 Remember, however, that effects like explosions and fire can look tacky and out when done poorly, so stick to color correction and grading, compositing, or ambient effects such as fog or dust particles. You can use free programs, like DaVinci Resolve, or Adobe After Effects to handle the color and put basic effects into the movie.


Color grading is when you make the whole film have a similar color pallet. For action movies, you can go two ways -- dark and gray, like Behind Enemy Lines or Saving Private Ryan, or you can go vibrant and energetic, like Mission Impossible, or Smokin' Aces.You can buy pre-made color gradings, called LUTs, that are incredibly helpful for getting a specific look to your film.
 Sound design is absolutely crucial to movie-making. The best sound design, however, is usually unnoticed since it fits into the fold of the movie. In order to make a good action movie you'll need much more than cool effects -- you'll need realistic sound effects to back all your images up.


This includes music as well, which is often loud, triumphant, and fast. If you cannot record the music yourself, be sure to use "royalty free music," which can be found online and is free to use in a movie without worrying about lawsuits.
You can sign up for sound effect libraries and databases online, many of which have professional quality sounds to use.
Many first-time directors can get more bang for their buck sending the film to a sound-production facility, which will add sound effects and mix your dialog so it sounds natural.