 It is important to make your partner aware of any issues you’re having, and what types of treatment you’re receiving. It is also helpful to speak openly to your partner about what you consider to be sexual satisfaction, including the things your partner does that you do and do not like.Focus more on the level of intimacy between you and your partner, instead of just on the sex.Make time to have sex with your partner so you can focus on the enjoyment and pleasure of the situation.
Try different types of sexual positions with your partner. If you experience pain with one position, try several others until you find one that’s comfortable.
 Foreplay can include a lot of different activities, including: watching erotic videos or reading erotic books; playing out erotic fantasies; sensual massages; or even a warm bath. They key to foreplay is that it is different for everyone, so you need to communicate with your partner in order to determine what works best for the both of you. You may also need to change it up every now and again to keep foreplay fun and exciting., Vaginal dryness, which can be caused by a large number of things, can often make intercourse uncomfortable and even painful. One potential simple and easy solution is to use a lubricant. It is worth giving this option a try to see if there is any improvement.There is a large variety of lubricants available on the market for you to try. However, be sure to read the instructions carefully as some lubricants cannot be used with some other types of birth control, like a condom.
 If you are a woman who needs to have clitoral stimulation in order to become aroused or to orgasm, using a vibrator or other sexual device might be very helpful. You can either teach your partner where to use the device so you get pleasure, or you can use it yourself.Don’t be embarrassed about buying a vibrator or other sex toy. If it works, it’s well worth it! Plus there are many online stores that you can order from that mail out their products in unlabelled boxes and disguise the company name on your credit card bill.
 Excess alcohol in your system has the ability to blunt sexual responsiveness. Cutting back on the amount of alcohol you consume may help alleviate sexual issues you’re experiencing., Smoking can restrict the blood flow in your body, which in turn means that less blood is able to reach your sexual organs. Less blood to your sexual organs can cause you to have trouble becoming aroused or to have trouble experiencing an orgasm., Ensuring you get enough physical activity every week, eating properly, and taking the time you need to relax once in a while can have a long-term and positive impact on your sexual experiences.Regular aerobic exercise can increase your stamina and elevate your mood.
Taking the time to relax now and again can help relieve stress and anxiety, and help you be able to focus on sexual activity.
 While not for everyone, it is possible to use acupuncture to help relieve problems that cause FSD. If you already get acupuncture, speak to your therapist about the sexual problems you’ve been experiencing and see what specific treatments they may be able to perform., Yoga, in general, is a great way to increase your flexibility and balance, and can reduce stress and tension. There are even yoga poses designed specifically to improve sexual functioning. If you were looking for a way to increase your level of physical activity anyway, consider giving yoga a try.