 By giving your eyelets numbers it will help you understand how to straight lace your shoes. Starting with the eyelets closest to the toe of the shoe and the number one, count up the eyelets assigning each pair of holes a number.
 Take one end of the shoestring and put it down into the left eyelet number one, and then take the other end of the shoestring and put it down into the right eyelet number one.You should end up with the shoestring making a straight line through both of the number one eyelets, and the ends of the laces should be on the inside of the shoe.
 Take the end of the left side of the shoestring and feed it up through the left side eyelet number two. Pull the shoestring across the shoe, and then feed it down through the right side number two eyelet.


Now you should have the left side of the shoestring down through eyelet number two on the right side of the shoe, and the right side of the shoestring down through eyelet number one on the right side of the shoe.
 Take the end of the right side of the shoestring and feed it up through the right side eyelet number three. Pull the shoestring across the shoe, and then feed it down through the left side eyelet number three.
 Take the end of the left side of the shoestring and feed it up through the right side eyelet number four. Pull the shoestring across the shoe, and then feed it down through the left side eyelet number four.
 Continue to lace the shoe in this fashion until you reach the second to last eyelet. Both sides of the shoestrings will be lacing in the same direction.


The left shoestring will lace the even numbered eyelets, and the right shoestring will lace the odd numbered eyelets.
 To lace the last eyelet, feed the shoestring that’s on the left side of the shoe up through the last eyelet on the left side. Feed the shoestring that’s on the right side of the shoe up through the last eyelet on the right side. Then tie your shoe strings together.


The laces should make straight lines between the eyelets of your shoes.

