 Buy yourself large cute notebooks which have simple life quotes or something you like on the cover, buy some colorful pens, highlighters, sticky notes, stickers, anything you need for studying. This may motivate you.;
, You don't want to study because your room probably is messy. Right? It definitely distracts you. Just clean it up and organize your desk and bookshelf which your studying materials are in.
 If you like simplicity, throw away your unnecessary stuff on the desk. If you like a cozy and candid places instead, organize your desk by your contents. For example, mount a board that you can stick your study notes.
 Or your iPad / mobile phone. Forget about internet. If you go online much, delete your accounts. Concentrate on your future life and your plans/dreams.
 Make a playlist full of songs that have no lyrics. Like electronic/techno or classical/jazz, such as instrumental. Don't go for a studying with music without making a playlist because you have to change the song and try to find the right one every single track ends.


Music isn't for everyone; if it is too distracting, skip this step.
 So it will block the noise coming from other rooms and you can focus more.
 Most students think they must learn or they won't have a job etc. No, that is the first false point. Be interested in things you learn in school. Like history, it can be pretty interesting if you listen to your teacher without thinking you learn it for the exams.
 It's easy to hate a subject because you find it boring, hard or irrelevant. However, every subject is awaiting discovery, unfolding of its many layers and it you haven't even tried to dig away at those layers, you'll never really know what's at the heart of the subject and just how interesting and challenging it can be for you. Keep trying and make it your aim to discover the fascinating side to each subject.
 You have more choices in life as to what you pursue, you might be top of the class, you know more things and you understand the world a little better than before the studying. Each set of learning builds on the last set, making sense of the greater puzzle.
 Write the important notes on your sticky notes and stick them on your notebook. Use related stickers on your notes. The colors help you to remember and they're a lot of fun to use.
, If it helps, you can study with a friend as this will help you feel more motivated and someone is supporting you all the way. However if friends just distract you learn to organize your time between leisure and studying.
 This is especially important when you've experienced an amazing studying marathon, such as before a test or exams, or to get an assignment finished on time. You get two rewards in one then - the learning and passing, and the reward you've promised yourself.


Rewards can include watching a movie or TV show, going for a mall visit with friends, hanging out with friends, spending more time with your pets, etc.
 You don't have to separate learning from fun. No you don't have to make watching science fiction your all time hobbies. Everyday just try to use learning in your day to day life. Learn a name of a flower, about the history of your local centre, etc. Learning is everywhere!

