 In order to apply for numerous US federal college grants you will need to file a FAFSA (or Federal Application for Student Aid). In order to do so, you will need to gather a number of important documents.These include:

Your parents' tax documents (if you are under the age of 24)
Your own tax documents (if you filed the previous year)
Your social security card
Your driver's license or state ID;
, Once your documents are in place, visit the FAFSA website at https://fafsa.ed.gov/. Here you will create an account, then select "Fill out a new FAFSA," and follow the instructions. You will be asked to provide your personal information, including:


Your legal name
Your birth date
Your social security number
Personal information for your parents (if you are under 24)
Tax and savings info for you and your parents
Your gender and marital status
Whether or not you receive any kind of government aid
Your military/civilian status
Your education level and/or previous diplomas
The school (or schools) where you would like your financial aid information sent.
 Once you have successfully filled out the entire FAFSA form, you will asked to create a 4-digit pin. This pin will be used to securely sign and send your FAFSA application. It will take approximately 2 weeks for your application to be processed. After this, your school (or schools) will compile financial aid packages that detail what grants and student loans you qualify for.You will need this pin to access your FAFSA information later, so try not to forget.
 There are a number of grants that you automatically apply for when you submit a FAFSA application. Eligibility for these grants are based on a variety of factors. Some FAFSA grants include:


The Pell Grant is awarded based on financial need.
The Teach Grant is awarded to students who are becoming teachers, and who commit to teaching in an eligible program.
Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (or FSEOG) is awarded to low-income undergraduate students who need a lot of financial aid.
The Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (or IASG) is awarded to students whose parents have been killed in military service in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 11, 2001.

