 This will help to keep your husky happy. Most mushing dogs get several miles of exercise four times a week. If you don't mush full time, you need a little help keeping your husky happy. Enrichment means something that engages your husky in an activity that uses his or her brain. Bones, toys that can be stuffed with food, buster cubes, doggy daycare, long hikes, and dog sports are all great ways to keep a husky happy.


Huskies are known as being escape artists. This really translates to a bored dog finding something better to do. If your husky is already an escape artist, or you want to avoid your husky learning to be an escape artist, they must get enrichment.
Huskies are capable of learning agility, fly ball, Frisbee, and other dog sports besides mushing.
One thing you can do to entertain you Husky is to design an agility course.
 Take your dog to get a veterinary exam on a regular basis. Your veterinarian can assess your dog's overall health and tell you what, if anything, to keep an eye on.


Also make sure your dog is flea and tick free. Fleas can cause skin irritations and carry parasites. You have to be diligent about combing through your husky’s dense fur coat to keep on top of a possible flea infestation.
Huskies that live outdoors are at a greater risk of parasite infestations and diseases. Make sure your husky has flea, tick, and heart worm protection, and has an annual veterinary checkup. These issues are easily prevented with timely veterinary visits.
 Huskies can live indoors like any other breed. Even mushers have started building dog barns (small horse style barns) for their teams. It has been discovered that dog teams recover better sleeping in the warmer barn versus sleeping outdoors during training. With training, your husky can be taught to live indoors.


Even though huskies function well in cold climates, they are not immune from the cold. You cannot leave a husky out in the cold all of the time. At the very least they need warm dog houses or other shelters to warm up from the cold.
In addition, you certainly do not want to leave a husky outside during very hot weather. A husky's thick coat does not allow them to cool down enough to survive in hot weather. If you live in a warm climate, do not have your husky live outside, as it needs protection from the heat.
 Huskies do get cold and need a warm dog house to head into during cold or rainy weather. The dog house needs to be weather proof including a leak proof roof and walls. It should be raised slightly off the ground (using bricks, paving stones, or treated lumber) so air can circulate underneath and to keep water from pooling.


A blanket or dry straw (changed/washed weekly) should also be placed inside the house.
In addition, the house should be small enough so the dog can retain body heat, yet large enough that it can stand and turn comfortably.

