 You could pay more for exclusive access; this is especially good when you don't want anyone else to show up at public events. Make sure to pick a good location! A few suggestions are the community park, pool, or dance club (for Sims 3 Late Night users)

, Inviting co-workers can also help a lot with your job. The more the merrier!

, You can either cook it yourself beforehand or you could buy a buffet bar. Keep in mind that to serve food on a buffet bar, it costs 250 Simoleons; however, the buffet bars serve nice quality foods like autumn salad, turkey, and cookies. If you want, you could buy a bar and make drinks, or hire a bartender to tend it for you (for Late Night users)

, When the guests arrive, you let him/her make music. Most sims like having music around them.


If you're not having any musical Sim in your household, you should buy a stereo. This will also give you some music at which your guests can dance and jam!







, It will help to prepare a few hours in advance. You're not going to be able to pull off a good party if your Sim is tired all night.
 The more you talk with them, the more fun they will have.
 Use the Make My Sim Know Everyone cheat to make sure it reaches everyone.;
, Choose something cute or flirty.
 When they start arriving, lead them all in. Flirt shamelessly with any boy or girl you cross.
 If so, know your and every other Sims' limits. Some will party forever, others will leave after the first song.
 You must do this unless you want to wake up and find everyone dancing again.
 A bath is preferable as it relaxes your Sim more.
 You might not, but cram a few more things in as you may throw up.
 This is vitally important if you don't want your Sim to die.
 Cleaning up the damage consists of the following:

Shoo everyone, and I mean everyone out. If they refuse, kick them out or kill them. It's better to just kick them out but you can kill them if you don't want to see them again.






Repair any appliances, etc., that have been broken. You may need a bit of money for this.






Generally clean up.






Clean yourself. Take a bath, eat, read, sleep, whatever relaxes your Sim. Get them in the best mood possible. Make sure they can go to the toilet if they need to vomit. Brush your teeth after vomiting.
