 Depending on the facts of your case, you may want to send a written demand letter to the other party before you file a small claims lawsuit.


Small claims courts don't require you to send this letter or to submit proof that you sent this letter.However, doing so may save you a trip to the courthouse.
In your letter, summarize the basic facts of the dispute, the amount you believe the person or business owes you, and why you believe you are entitled to that money. Provide the person with your contact information and a deadline to respond to your letter before you file your lawsuit in small claims.Make a copy of your letter before you send it so you have a copy for your records, and mail it using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you know when the person receives your letter.;
, The court in which you file your lawsuit must have jurisdiction over both the subject matter of your case and the person you're suing.


A particular small claims court generally has jurisdiction if the incident that gave rise to your claim occurred in the city or county where the court is located.The court also has jurisdiction if one or all of the people you want to sue live in the county or the city where the court is located – regardless of where the incident that gave rise to your claim took place. If you're suing a business, the court in the county where the business is located has jurisdiction.For this reason, it may be that you could file your claim in several different courts. When this is the case, you can choose whichever court is more convenient for you.If you're unsure about the territorial boundaries of a court's jurisdiction, particularly if there are two courts in relatively close proximity to each other, you should call the clerk's office and ask about that court's territory relative to the address you have for the location where the incident took place or where the person you want to sue lives.
Keep in mind that you can only seek money in small claims court. If you want to sue a person to get a court order for him or her to do something, or stop doing something, you must file your lawsuit in the general court of common pleas. A small claims court cannot, for example, issue a restraining order, or require someone to return property., Ohio state law provides deadlines after which you cannot sue someone to recover damages.


For the most common small claims lawsuits such as personal injury or property damage, the statute of limitations is two years from the date of the incident that gave rise to your claim.If you're suing someone for breach of a written contract, you may have as long as 15 years from the date of the breach. If it's only an oral contract, you must file suit within six years of the date of the breach., If you want to file a claim in small claims court, you must have the correct legal name and address of the person you're suing.


You may sue an individual over the age of 18 or a business, including a corporation, a limited liability company, and certain partnerships, in small claims court.If you intend to sue a business, you must first determine how the business is organized. You can do this by visiting the Ohio Secretary of State's website or calling the office at 614-466-2655.You must find out if the person you want to sue is on active military duty. The court will ask about the defendant's military status, and if he or she is currently serving active duty there are particular rules that must be followed to comply with federal law.Since the court will have to notify the defendant that he or she is being sued, you must have a full legal name and address where notice can be delivered. If the court cannot provide the person you're suing with notice of the claim against him or her, your lawsuit cannot proceed., Each small claims court has fill-in-the-blank forms you can use to file your claim.


If the court in which you plan to file your claim has forms available online for download, it's a good idea to get a copy of these forms ahead of time so you understand the type of information you will need and can find it before you begin.You also should consider calling the court where you plan to file your claim before you go to find out what the fees are and if any additional documents or information are required., Before you fill out your small claims forms, take a moment to compile any documentation or other evidence you have to support your argument.


If there were any witnesses to the incident that gave rise to your dispute who you would like to call to testify on your behalf, make sure you have their full legal names as well as a phone number and address where they can be served with a subpoena.Make copies of any documents or other information you plan to file with the court so you have them for your records. You can find out from the court clerk whether you must file originals or can file copies., You must fill out the forms completely and accurately if you want your claim to be heard in small claims court.


State the nature of your dispute plainly, along with any relevant details or circumstances. Stick to the facts of the case, and attach documents if necessary.If you're filling out the form by hand rather than typing it, make sure your handwriting is neat and legible.You must state the amount of your claim. If you want to include interest and reimbursement of court costs, you must state this on your claim form. Keep in mind that these amounts do not go toward the calculation of the $3,000 maximum for small claims.In addition to the claim form, some courts require a cover sheet or other forms. All of these forms should be included when you file your forms.Make sure you make copies of your forms before you file them. You'll need a copy to have delivered to the person you're suing as well as an additional copy for your records, since the clerk will keep the originals for the court's files., You must file your forms with the small claims court to initiate your action.


When you file your forms, the clerk will schedule an initial hearing date for your claim. That date will generally be sometime between 15 and 40 days of the date you file your claim.You generally must pay filing fees when you file your claim, which vary depending on the court in which you file. You should call the clerk's office ahead of time to find out what the fees are, but expect them to be around $100, although they may be less.If you can't afford the fees, you may be able to have them waived. You must fill out an affidavit disclosing details about your finances, including your income and assets, and whether you receive public benefits. If the court accepts your affidavit, you won't have to pay court fees to file your claim.Keep in mind that you can add court fees to your claim and have them reimbursed if you win. However, you must specifically state on your claim form that you want reimbursement of court fees., The person you're suing must have legal notice that you have filed a claim against him or her.


Typically the court will take care of service for you by mailing your claim forms along with a summons to the person or business you're suing using certified mail with return receipt requested. The return receipt constitutes legal proof of service.Other methods of service include personal service by a sheriff's deputy or private process serving company.
Your filing fees include the cost of one type of service for up to three defendants., Some jurisdictions require the defendant to submit a written response to your claim.


If the defendant has any claims against you, he or she may include those in any response. Those claims may be connected to the same incident that gave rise to your claim, or involve an entirely different incident.For example, you may sue your former roommate for unpaid rent and utilities, and he may counterclaim that you damaged some of his personal property.
If the defendant doesn't have any counterclaims, he or she typically is not required to file an answer, but may do so anytime within seven days of the hearing date., Many courts in Ohio have a mediator available to assist you in resolving your dispute amicably without going to trial.


Some courts also may require you attempt mediation before you have a court hearing. If mediation is required, the court clerk will let you know when you file your claim.The mediation hearing is even less formal than a small claims court hearing, and the mediator works with you and the defendant to reach a compromise on the claim.
The proceedings of a mediation hearing are confidential, whereas if you go to court the proceedings will be a matter of public record.If you settle your claim before the hearing is settled, whether through mediation or independently, you must provide the court with written notice that the case has been settled. The court will enter the settlement in the case's file and dismiss the case.Since many courts offer mediation services for free, you may want to consider using a mediator before you file your claim. You can always file a claim after the session if you aren't able to reach a settlement., If you plan on calling witnesses to testify on your behalf, you should make sure they understand why you're asking them to testify and the types of questions you will ask them.


Be sure to talk to them and make sure they're willing to appear and testify for you. A witness you force to come when they don't want to be there may do you more harm than good.
Take time to find out what each witness knows and how he or she will respond to questions. Generally, you don't want to ask a witness questions at a hearing if you don't know what the answer will be.
Keep in mind that the person you're suing also will be able to ask questions to any witness you call to the stand You may want to brainstorm questions the defendant might ask and discuss how your witness might answer.Sometimes a witness may be unwilling to testify unless required to do so, or may need proof that his or her presence is required to have an absence from work excused. In these situations you can ask the clerk to issue a subpoena. Make sure you have the correct name and address where the subpoena can be delivered., To prepare for your hearing, make sure you have all your evidence together and have arranged it so you can find what you need easily and with minimal disruption to the court.


Write an outline of the events that led to your dispute with the defendant so you have a cohesive statement to present to the court. Then you can organize your facts and evidence in the chronological order that the events unfolded.
Check with the court clerk before your hearing date to find out how many copies you'll need of each document you plan to present as evidence.Typically you must have at least one copy for the magistrate and one copy for the defendant, plus a copy for yourself.
Make sure everything you intend to enter as evidence is allowed by the court. Some types of evidence such as affidavits from witnesses are not allowed. Rather than presenting an affidavit, the court generally prefers witnesses to be present in the courtroom and give live testimony so they can be cross-examined by the other side.Check with your witnesses shortly before the hearing to make sure they will be there and know where the hearing will be held.You may want to make arrangements to meet your witnesses at a central location the morning of the hearing and travel to the courthouse together.
 Make sure you arrive at the courthouse at least 30 minutes early so you have time to go through security and find the courtroom where your hearing will be held.


Keep in mind that if you don't appear on your hearing date, your claim will be dismissed, regardless of how strong your arguments are and how much evidence you have.
On the other hand, if the defendant does not appear, you may win your claim by default. However, you still will have to prove to the court that you're entitled to the specific amount of money you listed in your claim.Your case likely will be one of many being heard by the magistrate that day, so take a seat in the court's gallery and wait until your name is called before you approach the front of the courtroom.Make sure you dress in clean, neat clothing that is relatively conservative. While you don't have to wear a suit, extremely casual clothing such as tank tops or flip flops are not appropriate for court., Since you initiated the claim, the magistrate typically will call upon you to talk about the claim first.


Using the outline you prepared, tell the magistrate the facts of your case in a brief and organized way. As you reach points where you have evidence or witnesses, you can enter those as evidence. Then proceed to your next point.While you present your case, speak only to the magistrate – don't speak directly to the defendant or get into an argument with him or her. The magistrate will understand if you are nervous, but try to speak slowly and clearly.
If the magistrate asks you any questions, stop what you're saying and answer the question as completely as you can.
 After you've finished presenting your case, the person you're suing will have the opportunity to present his or her defense.The defendant may present facts or statements with which you disagree. He or she may even lie. It's important that you don't interrupt him or her, argue, or lose your temper. As long as you have solid evidence of your claim, the magistrate will be able to tell who is in the right.
If the defendant has any witnesses, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine them. Pay attention to the testimony and take notes if anything strikes you as important and you want to ask questions about it, but don't interrupt the defendant's questioning of his or her own witnesses., When both sides have concluded their presentations, the magistrate will make a ruling regarding whether you are entitled to the money you've claimed.


The magistrate may make his or her decision immediately after the hearing has concluded, or may choose to look over the evidence and paperwork submitted and issue a written decision later. In that case, you'll be notified by the court when the decision has been entered.If the magistrate rules in your favor, you must collect your judgment from the defendant. The clerk will have forms available that you can fill out to begin collection proceedings.If the magistrate decides against you, or if you disagree with any aspects of the ruling, you have 14 days after the decision is entered to file a written objection. The clerk has forms you can fill out to object to the magistrate's ruling.