 Sometimes, you will not have a lucky day with the Wheel of Wow, Spree, Jumbleberry fields, and Wishing Well 2, but that's okay, everyone's been there. You should always log in every day if you can, and don't get upset if you win 20 Kinzcash on the Wheel of Wow. Although that doesn't seem like a lot, it adds up. Don't stop spinning the wheel. If you end up with maybe 10 Kinzcash on Wishing Well 2 the same day, add it onto the 20 from the Wheel of Wow, and you get 30. That is enough to buy clothing at the Kinzstyle Outlet, but don't spend that just yet. Save your Kinzcash. If you do your dailies every day, and save all that Kinzcash every week, you will end up with thousands more Kinzcash than you would if you were a spender.;
, Every hour, a new activity pops up that you can do. Some of them are ways to earn Kinzcash, such as the Soccer Challenge, Dunk the Zingoz, and answering the once-a-week surveys for 50 Kinzcash. If you do activities like that as often as possible, you can get hundreds of Kinzcash added to your doc. Now think of the daily activities added to the hourly activities, and see what you will get.
 Consider the classes: Cooking, Style, and Speed. These are as well events in the Webkinz stadium. The higher the level your pet is in the Academy classes, the better your pet will preform in the stadium events. If you win a big tournament, you will get a lot of Kinzcash.
 The higher the level you are in your job, the more Kinzcash you get. You should be doing jobs once if not twice a day. If you are deluxe, you get an extra job to do.
 Have you ever clicked on a fairy and gotten 100 Kinzcash? Now imagine that a few times a week; a few times a day.
 When you are really rich you totally can, but if you have under 24,000 Kinzcash, you shouldn't spend too much. Now, you can log onto Webkinz with a confident attitude, and start earning away! Also, always press log-out and do the carnival, don't just X the browser out. The carnival gives you a bonus 100 Kinzcash, on top of what you've already won.
 You get 5 Kinzcash for every question you get correct on the first. All of the Kinzcash adds up. You could end up with hundreds of Kinzcash!