 To make a delicious gravy, you need the drippings from a turkey or chicken. After it’s finished roasting, take the pan out of the oven and remove the meat so you can mix the gravy in the pan.If you’re not ready to eat the turkey or chicken right away, leave it on the cutting board. Place a sheet of foil over it, though, to keep it warm. It should rest for approximately 15 minutes before carving.;
, Once the meat is out of the roasting pan, examine the drippings. You don’t want any fat in your gravy, so use a spoon to carefully skim any visible fat from the drippings.The clear fat in the drippings will rise to the top, which makes it easier to tell it apart from the dark, flavorful juices. Be careful not to stir or slosh the liquids together, though.
You’ll have an easier time skimming off the fat if you gently tilt the pan so all of the drippings collect in one corner.
 Add ¼ cup (30 g) of flour and ½ cup (118 ml) of turkey or chicken stock to a small bowl. Use a whisk to carefully blend the two together until the mixture is smooth. Set the bowl aside.You can use store-bought stock or make your own with the leftover bones, skin, and giblets from a turkey or chicken.
 Set the roasting pan on the stovetop, and turn the burner(s) to medium. Pour 1 cup (237 ml) of dry white wine into the pan, and bring it to a boil, which should take 5 to 10 minutes.Depending on the size of your roasting pan, it will likely need to span two burners on the stovetop.
 Allow the mixture to cook for 2 to 4 minutes, or until it is reduced by approximately half. Use a wooden spoon to scrape the browned bits from the pan to mix it into the wine.The browned bits from the bottom of the pan will start to dissolve into the wine and other drippings.
 Once the stock has reduced, mix in the remaining 3 ½ cups (828 ml) of stock. Turn the heat up to medium-high, and bring the mixture to a boil again, which should take approximately 5 minutes.Stir the mixture regularly while you’re bringing it to a boil.
 When the mixture has come to a boil, allow it to cook for several more minutes. It should reduce by approximately half again, which should take 6 to 8 minutes., When the mixture has reduced, add the reserved flour and stock mixture to the pan. Whisk the mixture until the gravy begins to thicken, which should take approximately 1 to 3 minutes.It’s important to whisk the gravy constantly as it’s thickening to keep it from burning.
 Once the gravy has thickened, mix 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of Meyer lemon juice into the pan. Stir well until the juice is fully incorporated.You can substitute 4 teaspoons (20 ml) of lemon juice plus 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of orange juice for the Meyer lemon juice if you prefer.
 After the lemon juice is mixed in, remove the roasting pan from the stove. Pour the gravy through a fine mesh sieve into a measuring cup to strain any solid bits., Once the gravy is strained, mix in ¼ teaspoon (1.4 g) of salt and freshly ground pepper to taste. Pour the gravy into a gravy boat for serving.The gravy is best served hot, so if you aren’t going to use it right away, reheat it before bringing it to the table.
