 All things pass, and so too does the state of not having friends. Whatever the reasons are for not having them right now, you can tell yourself that this is only a temporary hitch in your life. It is probable that this is a time in your life where you need to have some time alone to realize what you're capable of; to realize what it means to have a true friend, in place of people who simply come and go in your life.


Keep your feelings in a journal. Writing them out can help you to work out what is causing you to feel sad or afraid about the lack of friends in your life and will also help you with clues about what to do to improve your situation. Letting the thoughts continue to swirl around your head unformed can be unhelpful and confusing––writing will help you to sort it all through.;
, It is important to focus on doing something that can keep you happy and energized in spite of the lack of friendships. This might be a hobby, volunteering, studying or learning new knowledge, learning a new language, taking up computer programming for fun, gardening, cooking or baking, playing guitar, and so on. Choose pastimes and interests that you can really get involved in.
 If you don't have friends, you won't find them at home. Getting out and about is essential to finding new friends and people with similar interests to yours. Take up a sport, hobby, night class or join a club, group or volunteer organization where you can meet other people. It can be helpful to choose some activities that don't involve the same people you see each day at school, work, etc., as this will broaden the people you come into contact with, thereby increasing your chances of finding people with whom you really click.
 No matter where you are or what you're doing, be friendly to others at all times. Be civil. Always have a smile at the ready, be ready to nod as you pass by people and greet people when you see them. If you don't feel up to conversing with others, at least say hello and ask how people are. Simply being polite and friendly will cause people to be attracted to you.


You may be very shy. Use your smile as a shield, to suggest that you're approachable even though you're shy. You don't have to say a lot to people; just show interest in them. "Hi, I'm Mary, what's your name?" is an easy way to start a conversation.
Complimenting people on their clothing or hairstyle (but only if you mean it) is also a great way to show people that you're interested in talking to them.
 As long as you are friendly and polite, being a tourist isn't so different from who you are at "home". Just be yourself. If you do meet someone who is innately friendly with you, don't be afraid to ask people for email contact addresses and Skype names so that you can stay in touch long distance.
 Make friends in cyberspace. If you're able to connect with people who have the same interests and sense of humor as you, this can be a fantastic way to make friends. You may even get to meet up some day.
 Yes, sometimes they can be annoying, but put any differences and fights behind you because you have to put up with your family until the day you die. It's easier and better to be friends than fighting siblings.
 Don't see this as a big issue, friendships cannot be forced and if another person decides they don't want to be your friend, that's their choice and is not a reflection on your self-worth. As time goes on, you'll realize that having a few very solid good friends is always worth a great deal more than lots of shallow ones who drop you the instant you cease to serve their purposes. Be strong and look for the people who really matter; indeed, bad situations are often the best test of who will really stand by you, so always look for such people.

