 For example, imagine you see a clean 1987 BMW e30 sell for $2,500 at an auction. While this is far too high to buy and sell for a profit, you'll know that a similar car on sale for $1,500 might be a good investment later on. And, when you sell it, you can comfortably keep the price at $2,000 or higher, knowing someone will pay that much.


Watch or check out car auctions and car sale shows to get a good idea of prices on a variety of cars.
Check into car appraisal sites regularly and watch the newspapers for car sales even when you're not in the market. The more cars and prices you see, the sharper your sales mind will become.
 If you're working with other people trying to make a profit you're going to both be fighting for every penny. But people who just want a car off of their hands, or buyers who want a car to get them around without hassle, are going to be much easier to negotiate with.


When buying cars, looks for phrases like "getting rid of," "need to make some quick cash," or other indicators that someone wants the car gone, no matter what the price.
When selling cars, pay attention to those that move quickly or seem excited before they've even seen the car. Be sure to ask why or what they want the car for, as this can clue you into their financial situation. Desperation signals good deals., Buying and selling cars isn't for the faint of heart. If you want to make any money in this game, you're going to have to learn to negotiate. While everyone has different strategies, the best overarching principle is to be honest with yourself beforehand. Ask yourself two questions -- what do you want to pay for the car, ideally, and what is the maximum you're willing to pay. Start a little lower than the first number, and work your way slowly to the second.


Be honest with the seller, "I can only buy/sell this car for $1,200 -- can you meet me there?" If they can't, you can walk away.
Always have the cash on hand, and ask potential buyers to do the same. If you can pay right on the spot, you can often get them to lower their price to save everyone the hassle of meeting again.
Don't get emotional about this -- you're only buying the car for the money. If they don't meet your pre-planned price, get out.
 Two heads are better than one, and if you've got a friend who is handy with a wrench it pays dividends to bring them around. Not everyone knows everything about cars, but that doesn't mean you can't still make a profit. Your friend can rev the engine for you, watch the car as you take test drives or inspect the motor, and point out little defects you may miss.


In general, it is a good idea to have a friend along for online deals to stay safe.
Always meet people in a public place., Unless you are totally confident that a car is a bargain, leave your phone number and have them call you about the sale. Remember that these cars are just there to make money, so don't get too emotionally attached if they sell to someone else while you're playing hardball. If you really want to get good prices, waiting 2-3 days will help your gauge the seriousness of the seller, as well as the overall condition of the car. If it still hasn't sold in a few days, you can almost always ask to cut 10-25% off the price., If a car doesn't feel right or a deal feels shady, there is no shame in walking away. Hundreds of used cars are on the market at any one time, and your goal here is to turn a profit, not take undue risks. If you're wary that someone is taking advantage of you or neglecting the entire story, trust your gut and walk away. There will always be more deals on the road.Look the seller in the eye and ask them if you're making the right choice buying the car. They should be able to look right back at you and shake your hand.

