 You can’t bring an action to compel arbitration if you don’t have a valid arbitration agreement. Go through your contract and check to see that you have an agreement. Also check that the contract has been signed by both parties.


A typical agreement says something like the following: “All disputes or claims relating to or arising under this Contract will be settled with binding arbitration in Seattle, Washington. Any court with competent jurisdiction may confirm the award.”;
, Some arbitration agreements make exceptions for what is covered. For example, a contract might require arbitration for pay disputes but not for disputes involving the quality of the work.


Make sure that the subject matter of your dispute is covered by the arbitration agreement.
 You need to file your petition to compel arbitration in the district where your arbitration is supposed to occur.You should read your arbitration provision, which usually states the place.


This article covers compelling arbitration in the U.S. under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA). Your arbitration agreement might state that you agree to arbitrate in Geneva, Switzerland or in another city outside the U.S. If so, then you should consult with your attorney for advice.
 You should meet with an attorney to discuss the process of bringing your petition. You can also talk about any other questions that you have. If you don’t have a regular attorney that you use, then you can get a referral to one.


Contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.Make sure that you request a referral to someone who practices in the arbitration field.
You should also think seriously about hiring the attorney to represent you. If you don’t have experience performing legal research or drafting legal pleadings, then you might find the experience overwhelming. A qualified attorney can handle all of this for you.
 This is a tricky issue. Although the FAA is a federal law, it does not guarantee you the ability to bring your petition in federal court.Nevertheless, filing in federal court is ideal, since federal courts have a strong policy of favoring arbitration. Accordingly, you need to analyze with your lawyer which court you can file in.


For example, you might be able to file in federal court if you have “diversity of citizenship.” This means that you and the person on the other side of the dispute are from different states. For example, you are domiciled in New Jersey and the other party is domiciled in Maine. The dispute must be worth at least $75,000.
This is an evolving area of law, and your lawyer might need to do extensive legal research to determine whether you can file in federal court.
If you can’t file in federal court, then you can file in state court. The FAA applies even in state court.
 According to section 4 of the Federal Arbitration Act, you can file a petition to compel arbitration without having to wait for the other side to file suit. You should title your pleading “Petition to Compel Arbitration.”Also make sure that it contains the following information:Sufficient background facts so that the judge understands the outlines of the dispute.
Text of the arbitration agreement.
Identities of the parties to the lawsuit—you and the other person or company. State where you have a residence and which state you are a citizen of.
Explanation of how the court has jurisdiction over the lawsuit.
Request for an order that the parties must arbitrate their dispute.
Your signature. You or your lawyer must sign every pleading that you file with the court.
 You or your lawyer needs to file the original petition with the court clerk. You may also need to file copies. Check with the court clerk about filing requirements, which differ depending on the court.


You probably will also have to pay a filing fee. Ask the clerk for the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 You need to schedule a hearing at the same time that you file your petition. Remember that Section 4 of the FAA provides for only five days’ notice.You should include a Notice of Hearing along with your petition.
 You have to give the other side notice that you have filed a petition to compel arbitration.Be sure to provide a copy of your complaint, the Notice of Hearing, and a summons. You can generally get a blank summons from the court clerk and fill it out. Make sure to follow the correct methods of service. In federal court, you can serve notice in the following manner:Hire a private process server to make hand delivery on the other side. You can find process servers online or in the phone book.
Have someone 18 or older who is not a party to the lawsuit make hand delivery.
 The judge will decide whether there is an issue as to the validity of the arbitration agreement or whether there is a valid dispute as to whether or not one party is refusing to arbitrate. If these issues are not in dispute, then the judge should issue an order compelling arbitration.


However, if there is some reasonable disagreement on these issues, then there will be a trial. Either side may request a jury in most situations. The purpose of the trial will be to determine whether there is a valid agreement and whether one side has been in default of that agreement., The other side in the dispute might try to rush to court and file a lawsuit even though you have a valid arbitration agreement. In this situation, you will need to stop the other lawsuit, which is called a “parallel action.”


You will know you are being sued when you receive a complaint and a summons. You should note the court where the lawsuit was filed.
At this point, you will need to Take Action Against Breaches of Exclusive Arbitration Provisions.
 The FAA allows you to bring a motion to stay any parallel proceeding.You need to draft and file the motion with the court where the lawsuit was filed.


You should have a lawyer draft this motion for you.
 In some situations, you might need to file for what is called an “anti-suit injunction” instead of asking for a stay. An anti-suit injunction is a court order that requires the other side to stop pursuing the parallel lawsuit.You can also get an anti-suit injunction before the party even files suit.


You will probably need an anti-suit injunction (instead of a stay) when the parallel action has been filed in a foreign country. In that situation, the foreign court might not grant a motion to stay. However, if the other party has filed suit in the U.S., then you should file a motion to stay the proceedings.
Like a motion to stay, this is a technical document which a lawyer needs to draft for you. Your lawyer also needs to file it in a court that has power over the other party. Generally, a court will have power if it is located in the same state as the other party or if the other party has personal or business contacts in the state.
If you are particularly worried about the other side starting a lawsuit, you can file for an anti-suit injunction at the same time as you file your petition to compel arbitration.
 The other side might fight to keep the lawsuit going. In this situation, they will file a response to your motion. In the response, they will argue why the lawsuit should not be stayed or why the court shouldn’t issue an anti-suit injunction.
 You have to argue the motion in front of the judge. Under the FAA, the hearing for a motion to stay should be “summary,” which means that the judge is only focused on whether there is a valid arbitration agreement.You should not have to delve into the facts of the dispute.


The argument on an anti-suit injunction will focus on whether you qualify for the injunction. In particular, the court will look to see that the parties in the arbitration and the lawsuit are the same and that the issue in dispute is the same., If the judge grants a motion to stay, then the litigation will stop. You don’t have to do anything else, although you should be on guard that the other side might try to go to a different court to file another lawsuit.


If you win an anti-suit injunction, then you may need to enforce it if the other side doesn’t stop the parallel action. When a party ignores a judge’s order, they can be held in contempt. Your lawyer might have to bring a “motion for order to show cause” why the other side shouldn’t be held in contempt of court.