 Just tap on its app icon on your home screen. You can also do this from your application drawer if you cannot find the app icon on your device’s home screen.;
, To do a search, tap on the magnifying glass icon at the top right corner of the application screen to summon the search field where you then type in "Internet Browser" (without the quotes). You will be shown your options.
 Do so to see all of the choices available. You will then see a mind-boggling number of Internet browser applications to choose from.
 You obviously can't download and try all of the browsers shown, unless you have a lot of time in your hands. The best thing to do is to check the ratings below the browser name. Anything below 4.5 stars should not be tried. There are so many highly rated browsers anyway, so start with those.
 Check out the app description page. Here, you will see the Install button, but it's worth the time to look through the user comments and ratings. You will get a general feel of the quality of the browser just by reading the comments.
 If you want to see what the browser would look like on your screen, scroll up from the comments to just below the “Read More” button. You will be able to swipe to the right on the images below the button, which are screenshots of the browser app.
 If you want to see a complete list of the browser's features, you can tap the Read More button to expand the description. Read through it, and see if the browser has the features you want.
 If you like what you see, go ahead and tap the “Install” button right under the application name.


The permissions window will then pop up. Read its contents, and press the “Accept” button on the lower right corner of the window if you grant the app permissions. It will begin to download and install right after. Once it’s done, tap the “Open” button where the Install button used to be.
 Once you open the browser, it should show you a splash screen with the browser name on it and some introductory pages. Swipe through them, and take them all in. Then, tap the address bar at the top of the browser screen.
 Take note of the loading speed, smoothness and responsiveness of the browser. Also, see if the style and design of the app works for you. Some browsers are simple yet intuitive, while others are more feature-packed yet flamboyant.
 Tools, meaning bookmarking, sharing, saving, and the like. Check how the browser lets you switch between tabs, as well as the tab creation feature.


If you like what the browser has, go ahead and use it for a couple of days. If it holds up and impresses you, then you have pretty much found your new browser.

