 A licensed surveyor will use the legal description contained in your deed to locate your property's legal boundary.You typically can find a land surveyor by searching the website of your state's licensing board.Expect to pay around $500 up-front for a land survey, although the surveyor's fees will vary depending on your location and the size of your lot.The surveyor typically will place posts or other markers to identify the legal property line. This will give you an idea of where the line actually is and how much (if any) property is being encroached upon.If your neighbor is unaware that you believe there is a boundary issue, you may want to bring it up with him or her casually before a surveyor comes out and starts putting stakes or flags in the ground. Otherwise, the presence of the surveyor may be seen as a rather hostile action and put your neighbor on the defensive.;
, You need to know the market value of your property and the portion of property along the boundary that is in dispute.Professional associations such as the Appraisal Institute have online directories you can search to find a licensed and certified appraiser in your area.If you had an appraisal done when you bought your house, you could probably use it. However, if it's been awhile since you first bought the property you should consider getting a new one so your information is up to date.
Once you get an appraisal of the entire property, divide it by the acreage or square footage of your lot, whichever is most applicable, to find out how each unit of your property is worth.
When you determine the amount of land affected by the property line dispute, you then have an estimate of the approximate value of the land in dispute.
 There may be recorded documents such as easements that affect your ownership interest or the legal boundary of your property.You can pay for a title search company to do this work for you, or you can Search Property Titles on the Internet on your own.
Keep in mind that if you purchased a title insurance policy when you bought your house, the title company may be responsible for any costs you incur as a result of the property line dispute.
If you took out a mortgage to finance your purchase, your mortgage lender probably required title insurance. Check with your mortgage lender to find out if you have title insurance.
 Even if you ultimately do not proceed to litigation, an attorney can help you analyze the information you have and determine your legal rights.In some cases, it may be that you are in fact encroaching on your neighbor's policy and the law is not on your side. If you are unable to reach an agreement with your neighbor, a lawsuit would be inadvisable since you probably would lose.
 Even though you may talk to your neighbor casually about the situation, any communications with your neighbor regarding the boundary dispute should be in writing.Keep your letter polite, and stress that you want to find a resolution to the dispute. If you've had a survey, appraisal, or title search conducted, let your neighbor know and assure him or her that you will share that information at the meeting.
If the boundary dispute arose because of an improvement project you are contemplating, or one that your neighbor has started, make sure you mention that in your letter.
 Typically a personal meeting is better for negotiations than a back-and-forth through written letters that are subject to misinterpretation.A neutral location typically is the best place for you to meet, but you also could meet in either of your homes. Just make sure the meeting place is somewhere you feel comfortable.
Both of you should plan on bringing any legal documents or other information you have about your respective properties to the meeting.
 Being open with your neighbor about the results of any survey, appraisal, or title search you had done on your property ensures you're both working with the same facts.Keep in mind that the dispute may be the result of a misunderstanding or bad information. For example, your neighbor's deed may state he owns the property in dispute, while your deed states you own that property.
 After viewing your information, your neighbor may wish to have his or her own assessment done of the property in dispute.Your neighbor also may want to get the same information about his or her property. If he or she suggests that, make sure you request a copy of those results as well.
A reasonable time typically would be a month to six weeks. You don't want the dispute to go on indefinitely, and you shouldn't allow your neighbor to use an independent assessment as a stall tactic.
Provide a firm deadline, and stress that you want the situation resolved as quickly as possible.
 With full information, you both can present your ideal outcomes of the dispute and work towards a compromise.If the area and value of the land is relatively small, you may want to simply pay for the use of the land and amend the corresponding deeds to reflect that exchange.
Another option is to suggest paying a small amount each month – or even annually – to rent the land in question.
If the property line dispute concerns a tree or the like that is encroaching on your neighbor's property, you might suggest trimming the branches so they don't extend over the property line, or coming over to your neighbor's place periodically to clean under the tree or rake leaves.
 If the two of you manage to settle your property line dispute through negotiation, make sure you write the agreement down.Once in writing and signed by both you and your neighbor, the agreement becomes a legally binding contract.
If you made a decision regarding the location of the boundary line, you and your neighbor may need to update your deeds to reflect the agreement.
If you need to write a new deed, make sure you record it with your county records office.
 Before you hire a mediator, you must get your neighbor on board with the idea, so send your neighbor a letter proposing mediation and explaining its benefits.Generally, a mediator is a neutral third party who is trained to help two parties find common ground and resolve a dispute between them amicably.
Mediation is by its very nature not adversarial, and typically is less expensive and time consuming than going to trial. For this reason, it's a far more beneficial way to resolve your dispute than suing your neighbor.
A mediator also has the ability to help you generate options to resolve the dispute that wouldn't be available in court, such as coming up with a way for you and your neighbor to share the land.
Keep in mind that since mediation is voluntary, the process can't go ahead unless both of you agree.
 You and your neighbor should work together to choose a mediator who will be neutral and who will best meet your needs, avoiding anyone who may know either of you.Many cities and counties have community mediation programs that can assist you and your neighbor in your dispute. Contact your city or county office, or check with your local court clerk.
Local bar associations also often have links to mediation services on their websites.
 Get your documents and other evidence together to take with you to mediation, including any surveys, appraisals, or title searches.Make sure you've set enough time for the mediation session. Disputes between neighbors typically can be resolved in a few hours, unless peripheral issues arise during the process.
If time runs out and there are still issues on the table that you want to resolve, the mediator may arrange a second session.
 You and your neighbor will meet the mediator, and he or she will explain a little about the process and what you can expect from mediation.The mediator typically will lay some ground rules, although generally mediations are much less formal than court proceedings and don't follow technical legal rules such as the rules of evidence.
Make sure you understand the mediation process and ask any questions before the session starts.
 Typically the mediator allows each party to make a brief statement explaining his or her side of the dispute.You will describe the dispute in your own words and provide some ideas for how you think the dispute should be resolved.
After you speak, your neighbor will have the opportunity to explain his or her take on the matter.
Avoid reacting to what your neighbor says, or interrupting him or her. If you have any questions, you may ask them after your neighbor has finished speaking unless the mediator instructs otherwise.
Once both opening statements are made, the mediator may open a joint discussion about what was said and see if there are any specific facts on which both of you can agree at the outset.
 Following opening statements, the mediator typically will separate you and your neighbor and speak with each of you privately.The mediator may go back and forth between you and your neighbor several times. He or she will help you realize the strengths and weaknesses of your argument, or suggest areas where you and your neighbor could easily compromise.
Keep in mind that the outcome of mediation is entirely in the control of you and your neighbor. The mediator may make suggestions, but he or she can't make a decision for you or force you to agree to any resolution.
 If you reach a settlement as a result of the mediation, the mediator typically will write it up for you.Read over the document before you sign it and make sure it says what you believed and understood the agreement to be. If you don't understand something or have any questions, ask for clarification before you sign the document.
Keep in mind that although mediation itself is not a legally binding process, the written agreement will become a legally binding contract once you and your neighbor sign it.
If any part of the agreement requires you to update your deeds, make sure new deeds are drawn up and recorded with your county recorder's office.
If you are unable to resolve the dispute either through independent negotiation or mediation, you may have to file a quiet title lawsuit to ask a judge to determine where the property line lies.
 If surveys, negotiation, and mediation are unsuccessful in settling your boundary dispute, you may need to hire an attorney and file a lawsuit to have a judge resolve the boundaries between the two properties.Keep in mind that filing a lawsuit typically will be much more expensive than getting a survey done or attending mediation.
In addition to your filing fees and attorney's fees, the judge may order another survey to determine the boundary line.
Any agreements you've made with your neighbor regarding the boundary may be thrown out by the judge if they conflict with the survey.