 Wire crates are usually a good choice for most dogs. Make sure the dog can stand up completely and put his head up completely in the crate that you've chosen. Make sure the crate is large enough for the dog to turn around easily.


A good rule of thumb is to read the recommended size on the box the crate comes in and then get one size larger to account for growth and to provide for the comfort of your pet.;
, The best time to train an older dog is after a little bit of exercise, when it's been worn out a little. It's also good to give the animal an opportunity to do its business in the outdoors, before being locked in the kennel for any amount of time. Even if it's going to be a brief intro at first, it's important to establish a routine.


Keep in mind that old dogs might have difficulty holding in their waste over longer periods. An animal with full bowel control will usually avoid making a mess in their cage and don't want to sleep in their poop any more than you do.
 Popular choices are "cage" or "kennel" or "kennel up." Get your dog's attention, then use the command word. They won't have a clue what you're talking about at first, so gently lead them to the cage. Repeat your command word a few times while you do this.
 Put a comfortable blanket or dog bed in the crate and make sure that it is the most comfortable thing available for the dog to lie down on. This will make the dog more likely to voluntarily go into the crate.
 Once you have the correct equipment, you can start introducing your dog to the crate. You need to help the dog understand that the kennel is a safe place and not a punishment before you require the dog to stay in the kennel for a long period of time.


Begin by putting the kennel in the dog's space with the door left open all the time. When you first bring the crate home, don't put it together with the dog close by. A crate can seem very strange to a dog and can be intimidating. Instead, take the dog out of the area, assemble the crate, put it in a corner, and let the dog come check it out on his own terms.
 Do not ever praise the dog when you let the dog out. Instead, praise the dog as he goes in. When you let him out, say nothing. This helps to establish that going into the kennel is a good thing, and coming out is a normal and regular thing that the dog doesn't need to get excited about.
 Start by feeding the dog a few times in the crate, and leave the door wide open. At first, put the food bowl halfway into the crate, so the dog can eat with his body half in and half out of the crate. Gradually move the food to the back of the crate.


Once the dog willingly stands inside the crate to eat the whole meal, reach in and move the food bowl to the front of the crate. When the dog turns to face you, close the door halfway.
Let the dog continue to go in and out of the crate as he eats. You want to move the bowl so that you are not closing the door behind him. If he is facing you to eat, he can see what you are doing.
 When the dog is no longer apprehensive about being in the crate with the door halfway, begin leading the dog into the crate with a treat. Give the treat in the crate and close the door while he eats it. As soon as the dog is finished with the treat, let him out right away. Continue to feed all meals in the crate.


Gradually increase the amount of time the dog stays in the crate after the treat is finished, and until the dog is comfortable resting quietly in the crate. If the dog gets up and barks at five minutes, for example, let the dog out at four minutes for a while. Then slowly increase the time you wait.
 If you miss the chance, try to wait for the dog to stop barking briefly before you open the kennel. If you let the dog out every time he starts barking, you're teaching him to open the door by barking.
 Crates are ok for dogs to sleep in at night and to stay in for a little while during the day, but it's not a longterm solution to caring for your animal.


No dog should be left in the crate during the day for more than four hours at a time without exercise and potty breaks. Water should be available at all times and dogs that are new to crates should be supervised until they get used to being in left in the crate alone.
If your dog is barking, whining, drooling, panting, restless, standing or turning around continuously, or pawing at the door to get out, do not force the dog to stay inside.
 Unlike with puppies, which don’t have habits they’ve been forming for their entire lives, adult dogs may have spent years without ever entering a crate. This means they’re probably going to be a lot more resistant to the idea and may fight against it more. Your job is to bear with them and keep trying. Over time, most adult dogs will come to accept a crate with the right training.

