 If a coworker, acquaintance or loved one accuses you of something you have not done, it is best to confront them calmly and directly. If you are being accused face to face, you may have to take a deep breath before you begin. If the accusations come to you as a written or recorded message, you will have the opportunity to wait and respond when you are calm and collected., Once you are calm, state the truth as concisely as you can. If your accuser is ready to hear you, this can save a lot of back and forth. If your accuser is not yet ready to hear you, check your frustration.


Even if the conversation ends without your accuser taking you at your word, know that they may come to believe you when they have had time to process what you said.
 Find out where the accusations come from, and why your accuser might be disposed to believe them. If your accuser is unwilling or unable to reveal the source, ask them if there is someone they would recommend you speak to.


If they refuse to help you, ask them to imagine that you are innocent, and ask what they would advise you to do in that case. Ask "what can you tell me?"
You may have to resign yourself to never getting the full story. Let the rumors die rather than reviving them with investigations.
 Let your friends or trusted coworkers know that you have been concerned about the rumor, and ask them to speak up for you. If you have a good network, you may never have to defend yourself again.


If you know the accusation began with a careless conjecture or a misunderstanding, rather than malice, ask your accuser to speak up and help you stop the false rumor.
 Remind yourself that what looks like malice is often a mistake or a misunderstanding.Avoid getting angry or retaliating. You may be judged more by the way you behave under pressure than by the rumor.


Avoid making false allegations in return, as they may compromise your reputation as a teller of truth.
 False accusations can cause a lingering sense of damage, or can push a relationship into a crisis. Have honest, non-judgmental talks with family and friends, and seek counseling if a serious rift has occurred.Take the initiative and invite someone out for coffee who you haven't seen in a while.


If you would like to meet new people, a new hobby can bring new friends. Volunteer, take a class, or join a meet-up group to make friends who share your interests., Your self-esteem can suffer when you are falsely accused. Remind yourself of the facts of the matter: a healthy self-esteem is grounded in realism.Self-care is key: exercise, and eat a balanced diet. Make your home comfortable and beautiful, and wear clothing you feel good in.Repeating affirmations such as "people care about me," or "I am proud of my accomplishments" can help you recover from the hurt of a false accusation., If you are the subject of an HR investigation, remember that the representative is required, by work and in some cases by law,to investigate accusations. If you help your investigator with the case, you are less likely to lend credence to character-related accusations.
 Let your representative know exactly what happened (or did not happen). If you have corroborating evidence, share it with them., Get as may of the facts as you can. Ask what you can expect as the investigation proceeds, and if you should modify any of your work practices in the meantime. Ask how you will know when the investigation is done, who will tell you, and when it is likely to be resolved.


If there is information withheld, ask "what can you tell me about X?"
Make sure to obtain your investigator's name and contact information.
Finally, ask with whom you are permitted to discuss the investigation.
 If a false accusation is not dismissed, you may have to contest it. False accusations might come to nothing, but you should be prepared in case you are denied a promotion, suspended, or fired. Be calm and forthcoming with your supervisor and anyone else authorized to discuss the case with you.


Know that you are not necessarily legally protected from being fired for false or impossible to prove allegations. Unless you have a contract that states the minimum length of your employment, you are likely an "at will" employee, and can be fired for any reason.If you do have a contract that says you can only be fired for committing a crime, or if you believe yourself to be the target of discrimination, you can sue for wrongful termination., False accusations that are published in print or online are called "libel," while false accusations on television, radio, or in conversation are "slander." Consult a lawyer if you can afford to do so: under certain circumstances, you can bring a defamation case against the person falsely accusing you.Not all false accusations count as defamation. If you are not fully identified, if your character has already come under public scrutiny, if you have made statements that support the false claims, if you are a public figure, or if the person defaming you is a former employer or other protected party, your case may not qualify as defamation in every state. , If it is safe for you to do so, providing the public with another side to the story can either kill the story or turn it in your favor. Contact reporters and publishers who are carrying the story and ask them to either remove the false accusations or broadcast your refutation.


If you are accused of a crime, consult with a lawyer before making statements on record., The less you respond, the better. Once you have consulted a lawyer or, in less serious cases, made a public statement, you have done as much as you can. If you continue to respond to every instance of slander related to the case, you risk re-invigorating the story.
 After the story has died down, search your name online to see what comes up. If the false accusations are still one of the first results, take the time to put positive information about yourself online. Write some articles or make videos that are unrelated to the false accusations. Make a website about things you enjoy, or update your professional profiles.


Share your new, positive content with friends and family to boost its position among search results

