 Even the coolest of heads can lose control but those who don't usually succeed. Control yourself and let your mind take control. Also, don't think about the negatives of a situation but the positives. This will help you remain calm and help you realize there is something you can do to win. Taking care of yourself is also another way to remain calm. Exercise on regular times, so you have nothing to worry about when a challenge comes and also prepares you for any tough activity that will follow the task. Refuse to surrender to the temptation of revealing your true feelings. Meditate regularly, this will help to clear your mind of all negative thoughts and it will help you to surround your body with positive energy. Be calm and collected.;
, Carefully absorb the feelings around you and notice what is wrong. To practise this, write a piece of work and carefully analyse it for mistakes and correct them. Be very insightful and try to work out your opponents next move, try practising that with your friends and gradually take it up to real situations.
 When called upon a situation that you cannot spiritually carry out, do not be afraid. Your priority is to complete the mission and you are willing to do anything to achieve your aims that are set out.
 Have the will of fire and the unbeatable drive to succeed. Whatever you do, take great pride in it and show your determination to be the best that is unmatched by others. Motivate your self as you are then more likely to be determined and driven for success at your task.
 Do not start attacking a person without a good cause. Don't be a man who would do something reckless for his own gain rather, have a reason for your actions.
 Be determined and have an unbelievable drive that inspires other around you. Be kind and care for the people who need help. Protect the thing you love and after you keep carrying on with the attitude to help people and protect them such as if your born in a village, train hard to protect that village, you will start to earn respect.
 Commit your self to a goal such as protecting the thing you love such as a village. Train hard to achieve that goal such as improving your fitness and soon you will become famous in # Be strong- Train hard and become physically as well as mentally a strong person. Improve your technique, do a sport and jog a mile. Any exercise that has is very intense will make your body strong so train hard at a rate you never experienced before. Do push ups, sit ups and cardio training such as skipping rope. Make a schedule so you don't skip training and do some mental training as well such as doing puzzles, doing sudoku and anything that can help improve your IQ.
 Care for the people around you, do not talk about the person's past unless you are allowed to and talk very kindly. Helping a friend to get rid of his stress will help you earn trust and be a good friend.

