 The organization responsible for putting the contest together can reveal a lot about how legitimate it is. Contests started by print publications are generally the most ideal, with a few online publications coming in next. Contests sponsored by organizations that have nothing to do with writing may not offer much renown, even if they are legitimate, and contests put on by individuals should generally be avoided.
 Many legitimate contests do not disclose the judges. For instance, contests that are held annually and organized by major publications are usually judged by their editors. If you feel uncertain about the validity of a contest, though, not having the names of the judges can be a bad sign.


Moreover, when you do receive the names of the judges, you should look them up. A no-name judge can be another bad sign, and if the judge is well known, you should familiarize yourself with his or her work in order to know how to appeal to the judge.
 Most legitimate writing contests have some fee, so a fee in itself is not a bad sign. If you are asked to pay an exorbitant fee, though, run away and don't look back. Standard fees for poetry and short stories usually average about $5 to $15, while fees for longer works can range from $20 to $50.


Contests put out by publishers that require you to purchase something to enter are another bad sign. In these instances, the contest may merely be an excuse to improve sales.
 Some writing contests offer a monetary fee, while others only offer publication. Both can be legitimate, but be cautious with contests that only offer publication to a blog or low-quality periodical. If the publication has no reputation in the literary community, it will not do much to help your own reputation as a writer.


Also be cautious about prizes that depend on the number of entries. The grand prize may be $500 if 200 people submit, but publications that need to rely on the entry quotas are often small and struggle to meet those quotas. As a result, the "promised" prize may not be distributed if they have too few entries.
Avoid contests put on by publications that require you to purchase a copy of your own story. These often fall under the category of "vanity" publishers. Most legitimate contests that publish winning stories will at least send their winners a copy of the publication their work appears in.
 Contests that publish all the winning entries and offer the same prize to everyone who enters are not really contests. There is no merit to be gained by a competition in which you do not compete. Moreover, the contest fee is more like a reading fee, since you are only paying to have your work read and nothing more.
 The majority of contests will want first publication rights for winning entries. This is considered normal and acceptable. You should avoid contests that claim any rights to non-winning entries, though, and you should also avoid contests that claim all rights, even if those rights are only claimed for winning entries. Ultimately, your work is your work. You must grant publishers the right to publish your story, but you should steer clear from anyone who wants you to sign over your work completely.
 You may have found a legitimate contest with a low fee and great prize, but before you enter, you should also consider whether or not you stand a decent chance at winning. Extremely well-known contests generate a lot of interest, and many high-level, professional writers will enter. Winning these contests can do a lot to boost your reputation, but if you are just starting out, you may not have what it takes to play in the big leagues yet. Typically speaking, small to mid level contests are better for beginners than expert contests.

