 Benzoyl peroxide is a popular product in acne products. It kills the acne-causing bacteria and helps to open up your pores, so applying it around your nose will help get rid of the acne. Look for products that contain benzoyl peroxide, which can be in concentrations of 2.5% to 10%. Products include cleansers or spot treatments.Benzoyl peroxide may dry out your skin or cause stinging, burning, and redness at the site of application. Use it only as directed on the package.;
, Salicylic acid is another acne medication. You can find salicylic acid in over-the-counter cleansers and spot treatments to use for your nose acne. Available products contain between 0.5% to 5% concentration of salicylic acid.Salicylic acid can include skin irritation and stinging. Use only as directed.
 Differin gel (adapalene) is a retinoid gel that is available without a prescription It is especially good at opening pores and treating and preventing blackheads, which are common in nose acne. Note that retinoids can be irritating and dry out your skin, especially when you first begin treatment. Make sure you follow the instructions on the packaging and use as directed.
 To help prevent acne on your nose and the rest of your face, wash your face daily, twice a day if you can. You should also wash after any sweaty activity. A lot of sweat can increase acne.Wash your face gently with light circular motions. Don't wash your face too much. More than twice a day is not recommended.
 You can apply a pore strip to your nose after washing your face, then allow the strip to dry and harden. As the strip dries, the comedonal plugs (dirt in your pores) are attracted to the adhesive on the strip. When you remove the strip, you will see small pieces of dirt stuck to the strip that have come out of your pores.You have to apply the strip to wet, clean skin or it will not work properly.
Make sure that you wait until the strip is completely dry to remove it. Then pull it off slowly.
 Some cosmetics can irritate your skin and cause acne. If you have trouble with acne on your nose, consider going without makeup or use as little makeup as possible. When choosing foundations, go for oil-free and noncomedogenic makeups that won't clog your pores.The chemicals and oils in makeup, even hypoallergenic makeup, can be clog your pores and cause breakouts.
Always remove all makeup before going to sleep. This helps reduce clogged pores.
 You should make sure to protect your face, especially your nose, from the sun. Too much sun exposure and tanning beds can damage your skin, and damaged skin is at a high risk for acne. If you are going to be out in the sun, wear sunblock. You can choose to wear a separate sunscreen or buy a daily moisturizer with sunblock in it.Some acne medications make your skin extremely sensitive to UV rays. Take caution in the sun if you are using these medications, which list sensitivity to the sun on the labels.
 Try these at home methods for at least three to four weeks. If the acne on your nose is showing no improvement, make an appointment to see a dermatologist. If you have moderate to severe acne, see a dermatologist before you try any of these methods to get a professional recommendation.


Without that professional advice, you could cause more problems than you solve/ Your dermatologist may recommend other approaches to blackheads, whiteheads, or pimples on your nose. Nothing can replace having a trained physician physically examine and look at your unique skin.
A dermatologist may recommend prescription medications, or alternative treatments such as microdermabrasion, chemical peels, or light or laser treatments. They may also help immediately remove blackheads with a special tool called a comedone extractor.

