;
, Be aware that some of this other type of Muslim, also known as "radical" Muslim (or Islamist) have captured, held for ransom, killed or tortured a number of Christians primarily because they were not Muslims (the same may happen to non-radicalized Muslims) often without any personal association or knowledge of the character of those targeted. But realize that the Christian church has often grown exponentially during persecution.
 Are there other Christians that are allowed to live there without being bothered? Are they allowed to openly practice their religion without attacks? If so, then go about your business and hope nothing changes, but always be alert for the unexpected at any moment.
 Beware, if you want to remain open about your religion, and take the consequences as they come -- "Live free." could then be your motto. So, avoid frustrations by being respectful, tolerant and accepting of the Muslim beliefs. You do have the right of worship and practice of your religion, and Muslims should defend your rights. And if you wish to discuss religious differences, you should encourage the organization of open debates (secret discussions are forbidden) -- but only based upon respectfulness and tolerance for people who are interested to know what each religion offers.
 These people have all been targeted for harassment and murder by the radical Muslim, and there can often be safety in numbers of people who do not draw negative attention by their usual, daily behavior outside of religious considerations which hopefully can be practiced fervently within small and secure circles dictated by the circumstances.
, Join in on different social and sports groups, if they have any, and make friends with the local people; be friendly -- sincerely accepting their differences and customs -- and tolerant, but not condescending or judgmental. Do not judge others unkindly or with self-centered impatience; be generous and forgiving of failings and weaknesses.
 As you measure accurately (in all kinds of matters), then others will measure back to you in similar ways as honest people of almost any background respond fairly when treated fairly... This does not mean to be open about your beliefs with most of them--but honest in business and not cheating or shrugging off opportunities to assist them. Many of the people in the Middle East, Africa, or Asia live in poverty, so that good or adequate shelter, food and clothing are like luxuries, as they may be supporting large families including the older folks and children who don't have retirement or welfare programs. Go the second mile and expect nothing in return; so that you will not be embittered or judgmental, if they forget or can not respond in kind when you have been helpful.
 Dogs are considered unclean in Muslim religion. You may want to add a tag to your dog's collar that says something along the lines of "Muslim-friendly dog" in Arabic letters. Also, try wearing gloves when walking your dog in public. This will help because Muslims believe you have to wash your hands seven times after touching a dog.,