 It’s the yellow icon with a white ghost on your home screen., It’s the large circle at the bottom of the camera screen., You can skip this step if you don’t want to use Snapchat’s editing options., It’s the square with an upward-facing icon at the bottom of the screen. This saves your photo to Snapchat Memories.

If it’s your first time saving to your Memories, you’ll be prompted to choose a location to which you’ll save your Memories. You can choose “Memories Only” (save to Snapchat’s server) or “Memories and Camera Roll” to also save a copy of the photo on your device.
, This opens your Memories., It’s just beneath the word “Memories” at the top of the screen. You should see your photo.

If you don’t see your photo in Camera Roll, you’ll have to save it there. To do this:

Tap Snaps at the top of the screen.
Tap and hold the photo until the menu appears.
Tap Save to Camera Roll.
 It’s the circle icon at the bottom of the screen. This will bring you back to the home screen., It’s the rainbow pinwheel (Android) icon on your home screen. If you don’t see it on the home screen, tap the Apps icon (usually a circle with 6 dots inside) and open it from there.

If you use another app to manage and edit your photos, you can use that app to rotate the image.
 It should be at the top of the photo list.

If you don’t see the photo, tap the ☰ at the top left corner of the screen, then select Device Folders. You should see the photo in the Camera folder.
 It’s the icon of a pencil at the bottom of the screen., It’s the third icon at the bottom of the screen that has several arrows pointing in various directions., Tap the button at the bottom right side of the photo to turn it counter-clockwise. Keep tapping until it looks the way you want it, then tap Done., You can do this by viewing your open apps (Usually a square button at the bottom of the screen), then selecting Snapchat., This will open your Memories., Your rotated photo appears at the top of the list., Lift your finger when the gray menu appears., It’s the blue paper airplane at the bottom of your photo. Now you can send the Snap to a friend or post it to your Story.