 Baking is a type of cooking method that doesn't require you to added calories to your foods. This helps you control the total calories of your meal.Baking cooks foods by circulating the hot dry air of your oven around the food.
For baked potatoes, you can just put the potatoes on the rack of your oven and bake until easily pierced with a fork.
You do not need to add any oil or added fats or seasonings to baked potatoes just to cook them. You only would add those when serving for extra flavor, or to add crispiness to the skin.
 Roasting is very similar to baking, but generally conducted a much higher temperatures. You can also control the amount of fat and total calories of your foods by roasting them.Roasting also uses the dry heat of your oven to cook foods thoroughly. However, the higher temperature promotes more browning and caramelization on the outside of the foods.
Roasting is great for potatoes since you're not adding much fat and the outsides of the potatoes become browned, crispy and much more flavorful.
For roasted potatoes, you will need to add a small amount of fat. A tablespoon or two of olive oil or canola oil will usually do the trick.
 A very common and quick method for cooking potatoes is boiling them. This cooking method requires no added fat.


Water or other flavorful liquid heats the potatoes and cooks them thoroughly without adding any extra calories.
Boiling potatoes can leave them bland — especially when boiled in water. Consider adding a little bit of salt or boiling them in a broth to help give your potatoes more flavor without any added calories.
Once you've cooked your potatoes thoroughly, you can use these low fat spuds in many dishes including mashed potatoes, potato salad or just served plain with some salt and pepper.
 Although grilling may not be the most traditional cooking method for potatoes, it's a creative way to cook them with little to no added calories. Plus, it'll give your potatoes a lot of great flavor.


Grilling uses direct heat, usually fairly high heat, to cook foods thoroughly.In addition, the parts of the food that come into contact with the grill get deeply caramelized or charred which adds a lot of great flavor to your foods.
Grilling does require a little added fat, but very minimal amounts. Tossing sliced potatoes with a little olive oil usually does the trick and gives you another chance to use a heart healthy fat.
To add even more flavor, with minimal calories, toss your potatoes in a marinade before grilling.
 Stir-frying is a traditional Asian method of cooking. Like the other cooking methods, stir-frying also requires little added fat and allows you to control the overall calories of your dish.Stir-frying works best when your pan is extremely hot. You only need to add a very small amount of oil to the pan. This method cooks foods extremely quickly as well.Cutting potatoes in small pieces or slices helps them cook quickly and all the way through if you're stir-frying. They'll get a nice crispy crust from this method of cooking as well.

