 It’s best to start talking to your crush when the two of you are relatively alone and no one can interrupt you. Try to find a chance to talk to your crush at the end of the school day, at lunch or in between classes.You can also talk to him during an after-school activity like a sports practice or a play rehearsal if you both are involved in the same extra-curriculars. Talking to him outside the context of school and classes can make the conversation more relaxed and personal.
You can also try to catch him while he’s at his locker or while he’s walking in the halls during breaks.
Avoid talking to him in the middle of class where anyone can overhear!;
, When you go up to him, make sure to smile and make eye contact as you say hello. If you both have been hitting it off, he may be nervous to talk to you too! A smile shows that you’re glad to see him and will help put him at ease.People are naturally drawn to optimism and positivity, which is why a smile can be such a powerful tool.
 Instead of asking your crush out as soon as you say hi, start a conversation with your crush. Ask him something casual, like how his weekend was or what the homework is for the class you share.You can ask him something like, “Hi Cam, did you finish the Latin project yet?”
Continue the conversation by talking about shared classes or interests. Ask him a question about himself if the conversation lulls!
If you haven’t ever spoken very much with your crush, consider having casual conversations like this a few times before making the move to ask him out. This will give you the opportunity to get to know each other better and will make asking him out seem less abrupt.
 Giving your crush a compliment is an innocent way to transition the conversation from casual to more personal. It’s also a subtle way to show your interest while still not being obvious. People naturally respond to flattery, so you can do no wrong by giving him a small compliment!You can say something as simple as, “I like your shirt!” or “By the way, good job with the game on Saturday.”

