 You might tend to take your feelings out on other people. These people don’t deserve your aggression, mean words, or cruel actions. If you struggle with how to release your emotions in a beneficial way, try keeping a journal or talking to a trusted friend. Learn to identify and label your feelings. For example, if you want to react in a rage, stop and think to yourself, “I’m feeling angry because someone cut me off.”Find healthy outlets for your feelings. Engage in stress relief techniques to help you cope with stress and not let it out inappropriately.;
, Get in the habit of giving thanks. Increasing the gratitude in your life can lead to incredible benefits such as increased happiness and well-being. It can also help you see the good in everything around you. Keep a gratitude journal as a way to reflect on the things you are grateful for each day.Be grateful for small things. If someone offers you help or does something kind for you, give thanks for that small gesture.
 Gain some perspective on yourself and your life by reflecting on it regularly. Set aside some time each day to reflect on your day and your life. Keep a journal, pray, meditate, or take a thoughtful walk. If a situation doesn’t sit right from the day, reflect on what could have gone differently or that you’ll do in the future.Become aware of your own thoughts and feelings as they occur. Increasing your awareness in the moment can help you respond to situations as they occur.
 If you can’t seem to understand why you’re a jerk or how to improve, a therapist can help. Your therapist can help you work through emotions and make meaningful changes to your thoughts and behaviors. Your therapist is someone you can talk to, trust, and lean on for support when you need it.Find a therapist by contacting your insurance provider or local mental health clinic. You can also get a referral from your physician or a recommendation from a friend or family member.
 If you’re depressed, anxious, or suffer from other mental health problems, address them. Get medication, talk to a therapist, and cope with your problems as effectively as you can. Ignoring your mental health can lead to interpersonal problems, and people may understand your difficulties as you being a jerk. If you have an addiction, for example, seek treatment by attending rehabilitation.For example, people may see you as aloof and self-absorbed when you’re actually suffering from depression and having difficulty concentrating and relating to others.
 Being perceived more positively and acting in a positive way can be as easy as understanding how to relate to people differently. You might struggle in knowing how to treat other people or engage in healthy interactions. Social skills training can help you recognize verbal and nonverbal communication and how best to respond to it.You can also learn anger management techniques through a class or program.

