 Just because your kids are on a gluten-free diet doesn't mean they can never have cookies, cakes, or muffins. All your kids' favorite sweet treats can be made using alternative flours, such as almond flour.Keep in mind that gluten-free baked goods typically must be refrigerated soon after preparation, or they will become inedible.
You can find recipes online for gluten-free muffins, cakes, and cookies, or check out a gluten-free baking cookbook from your local library and try some out.
Adding citrus such as lemon and orange to gluten-free baked goods can help keep them moist., There's nothing about a gluten-free diet that means you can't include any sugar, but you may generally want to avoid refined sugar in kids' snacks and treats for other health reasons.Pure cane sugar is one alternative to refined sugar. Brown sugar also typically is more healthy than refined sugar and you typically don't need to use as much.
If you're including fruits in your baked goods or other sweet treats, you may not need to add any sugar as the fruits have their own natural sweetness.
Honey, maple syrup, and molasses also can be used to replace refined sugar. Check recipes carefully and pay attention to the substitution amounts. You'll want to use less honey or syrup than refined sugar, and you'll also want to reduce the total liquids in the recipe to keep it from getting too runny.
Generally, you want to use about half as much honey or syrup as the amount of sugar the recipe calls for. For each cup (240 milliliters) of honey or syrup you use, decrease other liquids by about a quarter of a cup (60 milliliters) total. Make sure you keep the proportions consistent., Baking fruits such as apples and pears can create a warm, sweet snack that's also healthy and nutritious. Use harder, denser fruits for baking, and glaze them with spices or stuff them with healthy nuts and other dried fruit.To bake apples or pears, you generally want to preheat your oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius).
Coat your fruits with maple or agave syrup to create a candied coating, adding spices such as cinnamon to taste. Use water to thin the syrup to your desired consistency. You may want to play around with this until you get it right.
You also can find various recipes online or in cookbooks for baked-fruit snacks and desserts.
 In many cases, candy is a complicated and difficult thing to make at home. However, there are plenty of candy recipes that you can use to make simple sweet treats at home for a fraction of what you would pay for commercial gluten-free candies.Look for recipes that use chocolate and coconut and have few ingredients. Pay attention to prep time and make sure you have everything you'll need. Keep in mind that many candies and fudge recipes require a food thermometer because you have to maintain the correct temperature for the candy to come out right.
You can make gummy candies using gelatin and fruit juice (keep your fruit juice organic and without added sugar, or squeeze fruit yourself), and add spices as desired. Whisk your ingredients in a small saucepan over low heat until they are smooth and liquified. Then pour into the mold of your choice and let them set in the fridge. They should keep for a couple of weeks.To make cinnamon candies much like the "red hots" commonly given out as treats on Valentine's Day, use dried cranberries, sunflower seeds, vanilla extract, and cinnamon. Use half the amount of hulled sunflower seeds as dried cranberries, with vanilla extract and cinnamon to taste. All you have to do is mix your ingredients in a food processor and process them until they are sticky and well-mixed, then shape them into balls or hearts and stick them in the fridge for a bit to firm them up., In warmer months, fruit sorbet is a healthy alternative to ice cream that also is naturally gluten-free. While you may find plenty of gourmet recipes that are more complicated, you can make plain sorbet quickly and easily with nothing more than a food processor and some zippered freezer bags.You can use canned or fresh fruit – peaches and apricots work well. If you use canned fruit, choose cans labelled with “canned in fruit juice” or “canned in water.” Avoid those that are canned in syrup.
Mix your fruit and some juice together in a freezer bag and freeze the whole thing for about six hours.
Once your fruit is frozen, puree it in a food processor until it's smooth, then freeze it for another hour.

