 To get your horse to master raising his leg, you will need to use a driving whip. You may already have a whip that you use to train your horse. Your horse should be comfortable learning new tricks with the aid of a whip and act calmly around the whip.Another option is to use the rubber end of your riding crop. Using a riding crop is a good option if your horse is not comfortable around whips.
Shaking a hoof can be challenging for most horses, so you may want to start with easier tricks first to ease your horse into the training. You may teach your horse to hug or to kiss so he is comfortable taking direction from you by the time you teach him to shake a hoof.;
, Your horse should be wearing a halter and lead. Let the lead drape over one side of your horse so he knows it is training time. Then, stand beside the leg you want him to shake.Hold the whip in one hand. Keep treats, such as carrots, in your pocket or in a bucket nearby so they are easy to access as rewards.
 Lightly tap below your horse’s knee and say “Shake”. Make sure you tap him lightly, as the whip should be used as an extension of your arm. Only give the verbal cue while you are tapping his leg., Once you have tapped his leg and said “Shake”, run the whip up and down his leg and gently lift up his foot. Do this by gripping above his knee. Do not touch his hoof, as some horses are sensitive to touch in this area.


Place his foot back down gently. Stand back up straight.
 Once you have placed his foot back down, reward your horse with a treat. This will let him know he has done something good and is getting rewarded. You may also verbally reward him with a “Good job”., Repeat these steps again, lightly tapping below his knee and saying “Shake”. As you progress, move in front of your horse and get him in the habit of responding to the cue when you are standing directly in front of the leg he is lifting.It may take several tries or several lessons to get your horse used to lifting up his foot with the cue of the whip and “Shake”. Be patient and consistent with your cues, following the same motions every time you do the lesson. Praise him generously, as this is likely going to be the most difficult part of learning this trick for him.
 Before you move on to the next part of the trick, remind your horse of the first part of the trick. Use the whip to get your horse to lift his foot with a light tap and a “Shake” command. Horses learn best through repetition after all, so make sure your horse is confident doing the lift before you move on to the next part of the trick., Do this by lightly tapping below his knee and saying “Shake”., Once he raises his leg, gently hold on to his pastern, which is the sloping part of his foot located between his fetlock and his hoof. Stretch it slightly up and forward.Be very careful when doing this as you do not want to over-stretch his limb. You should hold his pastern very lightly to avoid spooking your horse or agitating his hoof.
If your horse is not comfortable with you holding his pastern, you can “shake” his leg by lightly gripping his thigh or gaskin.
 Give him a treat right away and praise him verbally with a “Good job”. You should then repeat this lesson several times until he seems comfortable with picking up his foot and bringing it forward on his own with a tap of the whip and the “Shake” cue.Make sure you praise him and give him treats each time he achieves this movement. You will want him to be confident with this part before moving on to the final version of the trick.
 Before you get your horse to shake with a verbal cue only, you should remind him of the previous lessons. Lightly tap below his knee with the whip and say “Shake”. Then, once he lifts his leg, hold his pastern lightly with your hand.Reward him once he completes these two motions with confidence and ease.
 To do this, stand in front of your horse. Say “Shake” but do not use the whip to tap his leg. Wait two to three seconds for him to respond.If he does not respond, lightly tap him with the whip and say “Shake” again. He should raise his foot to shake. Then, lightly hold his pastern and then place it down on the ground. Reward him with a treat and verbal praise.
 Try this lesson again until he lifts his foot up and brings it forward with the verbal cue only. You may need to practice this trick with him over several sessions or several weeks. Be patient, as your horse needs to be taught this trick with repetition and consistent reminders from you.Over time, your horse should be able to lift his leg up and forward for a shake with just the verbal cue “Shake”. Always reward him with praise and treats so he knows he is doing the trick correctly.

