 The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) does not provide a list of specific disabilities. Instead, the law states that those "qualified individuals with disabilities" may not be discriminated against by employers.The ADA states that ”qualified individuals with disabilities” are individuals who can perform the essential functions of the position, not necessarily marginal or incidental parts of the job., Your employer is required by law, according to the ADA, to make adjustments that will help any employee with a known disability.Let your employer know if there are any environmental changes that they can make to improve your condition and productivity at work.


You may be able to get a different chair if you have a chronic back condition or an enclosed office if you are more susceptible to catching airborne viruses.
The same goes for working a modified schedule. Make it known if working fewer hours each day would improve your situation, or maybe working more hours for fewer days would be better.
Discuss all the possibilities with your employer.
 Provide information from your doctor or another resource whether your boss asks for it or not. Being prepared with documentation not only validates your requests for accommodation, it makes you look prepared and credible.


Ask your doctor to write your employer a letter or send in a few pamphlets that may help in understanding your illness more fully.
If you can find research that explains how your illness is considered a disability, print this out (or make copies) to hand in to your boss.
 Employees are allowed up to 12 weeks of medical leave for a variety of reasons, including chronic conditions. You should see HR for the two forms you need in order to file for FMLA as soon as you realize you need time off.


Employees cannot file for FMLA until they have worked for 12 months and at least 1,250 hours at their company.FMLA is not required to be paid leave, so if an employer decides not to give you sick leave for a time beyond what you have earned, you can't dispute it.
Employees who work for employers with fewer than 50 employees are not eligible for FMLA.
 If you feel you are being treated unfairly by your employer, report it to your supervisor. If this doesn’t work, go to Human Resources. There are laws like the ADA in place to protect you in this situation.


You may need proof of mistreatment. Before meeting with an employer, ask if you can record the session on a device, or perhaps dialogue with your boss through email so that the interaction is captured in writing.
Keep in mind that as an employee with a disability, your job is to perform the essential parts of your job. If you cannot perform these parts because of flare-ups of your chronic illness, request time off so the illness doesn’t prevent you from being protected by the ADA.

