 Egotists have a hard time listening to others or caring for others’ emotions. This can put you on the short end of the stick a lot, especially when all they do is talk. Balance out time spent with this person by developing relationships with others who are able to truly be there for you.For example, you'll want to choose friends who are good listeners, who are able to put your needs first sometimes, and who don't compete with you for attention.
 Being friends with an egotistical person often means you are usually pouring your emotional energy into someone else. They may rarely, if ever, pour back into you. Take care of your own emotional health, particularly when you have been drained by your self-centered friend.

Be sure to do kind things for yourself like sipping a warm cup of tea before bed, doing yoga, or calling your mom to chat. Pour back into your own cup as often as you can., If you intend to stay friends with an egotist, you need some strong armor in place. That means you can’t allow this person’s look-at-me attitude to make you feel less than you are. It can be hard to be around someone who is conceited and not feel your own confidence take a nosedive. So, purposefully take strides to boost your self-esteem.Make a list of all your strengths and keep it with you. Recite it regularly.
Try out new things, such as interesting hobbies or sports. You’ll feel better about yourself when you take on new challenges.
 If being friends with a self-centered person is bringing you down, know that you have options. You aren’t required to keep this person around. In fact, you have a duty to make sure you surround yourself with positive people who love and care for you. If this person isn’t meeting those criteria, consider whether they’re worth keeping around.Ask yourself whether you really want to keep being friends with this person. If not, make the hard choice to separate yourself from them.
You might say, "I'm sorry, Tori, but I don't think we should continue being friends. I don't feel valued and truly seen by you."

