 I recommend that you do so because, not only will it make it convenient, but it would help you love the characters and the book much more.;
, You can't just make him/her have a wooden personality. Put some emotions in there, use some of your own personality and put it in there, or maybe some of your friend's feelings and little quirks. Add some emotion: happy, sad, angry. Your character is putty in your hands, mold it into something awesome!

, There is no book without a story. First, think of an idea. It must be original, yet interesting. Make something that you KNOW is going to attract an audience.
 Once a storyboard blossoms in your mind, it's time to write!

, Chapter one will introduce the animal in the story. Tell what animal it is, its personality, and its name. Make the animal have an unusual name, something that will draw people's attention towards the character, this will make the reader want to read further and further. When writing the story, don't rush through all of your ideas at once, this will make the story look sloppy and of course, rushed. Take a slow approach, letting the reader warm up to the character before getting to the epic adventure.
 Animals are much cooler than people, make the people believe that! Your animal should be believable. A tiger may not know what to call the things around it, a wild creature doesn't have the same mind as we do. Make up words your animal could use to replace human terms (cars, people, etc.), but be very, very, VERY descriptive when using words like this, so the reader actually knows what you are talking about.
 You have a life outside of the computer screen, but it's still be nice to write a few paragraphs once in a while. Try to get at least two hours a week to try to finish it, unless you really like writing and want to make this more than just a hobby. If you want to pursue a career in writing, you will need to commit much more time.
 At the end of your story, please read through it, look for mistakes, and edit them. Once you are finished, print out a few copies, and give them to friends. Ask for their honest opinion. If you get good feedback, then, maybe you can think about sending it to a publisher. But be warned, not all books get published, you may end up just having your friends be your readers.

