 Once you've collected some information about your options, it's time to start narrowing down your choices by considering what you need out of a short-term insurance plan. Among other things, you'll want to consider how long you need coverage for, whether the coverage is for yourself or someone else (such as a college-aged child who might be at greater risk of an accident), and what the legal requirements are in your state.Some common types of insurance include:



Liability coverage is required in every US state. It does not cover any damage you or your vehicle might incur in an accident; rather, it means you can pay for damage you might cause to the other party in an accident, if you are proven to be at fault.Collision coverage will cover any repairs to your vehicle due to a collision. That collision may be with another vehicle, or a stop sign, or building, and so on. If your car is totaled in the collision (meaning the cost repairs to the car outweighs the current value of the car), you will be reimbursed for the current value of the car.Comprehensive coverage covers your vehicle when it is damaged by something other than another vehicle. Vandalism, theft, a natural disaster, or a collision with an animal would all be covered under a comprehensive plan.Bodily injury liability will cover bodily injury to another party if you are at fault for an accident. This may cover: medical bills, physical therapy, work time lost due to injury, legal representation for the other party, funeral costs, and possibly “pain and suffering.”This type of insurance does not cover any injuries you may suffer as a result of an accident for which you are at fault.;
, Most websites have the parameters built in, so you won't be allowed to choose lower coverage limits than the state minimum, but it's still good to be familiar with the requirements, especially if you aren't buying online.


For example, in many states, the minimum liability coverage is 25/50/10--$25,000 for personal bodily injury, $50,000 for bodily injury to all parties, and $10,000 for property damage. Similarly, some states require additional coverage for accidents involving uninsured motorists, while others do not., You might wish to consider a plan with more benefits at times. For example, if you are renting a vehicle such as a moving truck that you are not accustomed to driving and might be more likely to damage, you might want more insurance. You also might want it on a particularly valuable vehicle that would cost a great deal to replace.


If you rent a car often, or frequently borrow vehicles from friends or family, you may wish to consider longer-term non-owner's insurance. This is often more affordable than getting insurance through car rental companies, and will protect your friend or family member from increased premiums if you have an accident in their car., If you already have insurance and want to replace it or supplement it with a more limited plan, the easiest way to do this is to contact your insurance company and see if they will offer you short-term coverage.


Although they many not advertise it, most large insurance providers offer some kind of short-term or non-owner's insurance.Additionally, if you are concerned you might need short-term insurance because you will be renting a car or moving truck, your insurance company will be able to tell you whether or to what extent your existing insurance covers such vehicles. It may be that you don't need to buy additional insurance!, Browse the websites of reputable companies to see what types of short-term insurance they might offer. Keep the following points in mind when you're shopping for coverage:


Some sites allow you to simply enter your zip code and receive quotes so that you can see comparison rates for various companies.Others require more information, and may not be able to provide a quote without first talking to you on the phone.Be sure that the short term policy includes payouts for claims. Read the fine print. Some policies that are available may satisfy the state’s requirements for carrying insurance, but may provide minimal payments should you actually have an accident.
 Once you've eliminated any options that obviously don't meet your needs, do a cost comparison of the different plans., The cheapest plan may not be the best one. By the same token, however, the most expensive plan may not be the one that gives you the most for your money., For ease of comparison, make sure the costs are all in the same increments, e.g. cost per day, per week, or per month. List the qualities of the plans and check off which are included in each plan. Often looking at a spreadsheet can tell you which is the plan that will best suit your needs.
 Weigh the costs and benefits and choose the plan that suits you best. You may not need or have the means to afford the best coverage, but you can look for a happy medium between the premium you can afford and the services provided., Depending on where you purchased it, it might mean printing it out or waiting for written confirmation from your insurance agent. Keep it with the car, and an extra copy at home., Depending on what choices you have made about insurance, you might have decided to purchase a plan and then cancel when you no longer needed it. Make sure to cancel on time or you will have to keep paying the premiums.

