 Though it may seem counterintuitive to water your dog to prevent urine spots, making sure your dog is well-hydrated can help to dilute the strength of the nitrogen in his urine. You should make sure your dog has enough water throughout the day.You can also add water to his canned food or his dried food to ensure he is getting enough liquids.
Another fun way to keep your dog hydrated is to place ice cubes in a rubber toy. Your dog will then play with the toy and lick the ice cubes.
 Most high-quality dog foods contain higher-quality protein sources, which are easier for your dog to digest and less likely to leave by-products in his urine that could damage your lawn. Look for dog food that has a balanced pH and an ingredients list of mostly or all digestible foods.If you have a less active dog, you should look for dog food that is lower in protein. Lower-protein food will mean your dog will release less nitrogen when he pees. Less protein is also good for less active dogs as this will allow them to stay healthy and avoid gaining unnecessary weight.
Talk to your vet before you change your dog’s diet to ensure it is the right move for your dog.
 You can do this by first creating a graveled or mulched area of your lawn that will act as your dog’s outdoor bathroom area. Then, take your dog to this area when he indicates he needs to go to the bathroom. Have him stand in the area while he goes and give him positive reinforcement in the form of a treat once he finishes.You may need to continue to bring your dog to the spot and praise him for a period of time until he gets into the habit of using the area.
You should also maintain this outdoor bathroom so it is appealing to your dog by picking up any feces on the mulch or gravel. You can also spray down the mulch or gravel periodically to remove any urine.
 These supplements can be purchased over-the-counter, and claim to help neutralize the nitrogen in your dog’s urine. These medications work by changing the pH of your dog’s urine or by adding salt to your dog’s body. However, these medications can cause health issues in dogs, such as bladder stones or urinary crystals. Make sure you speak to your vet before giving your dog these supplements.You should also speak to your vet before adding natural options like gypsum salts or cranberry juice to your dog’s food to balance the pH of his urine.

