 In addition to exceptions under the First Amendment, many states have statutory exceptions.


You can find state law resources by searching online or by visiting the public law library in your local courthouse.
In all states, exceptions are made for news and commentary or for creative works. These exceptions are based on the First Amendment.Some states also have statutes that specifically exempt news reporting or legitimate commentary of current events, particularly on the internet.For example, if you wrote a commentary on your blog expressing your opinion about gay rights, and included a picture taken at a gay pride parade, your use of that photo typically would be protected under an exception should someone in the photo sue you for appropriation.Creative works loosely based on real events also are protected.For example, if you wrote a historical novel about events in your town during the 1960s, but used some real names of political figures during that time, your use of their names typically would be protected under the exception if one of those people were to sue you for appropriation.
In most states, this exception is an affirmative defense, which means you have the burden of proving the elements of that offense. For example, California law provides an affirmative defense for creative works, provided the artist or creator proves either that the creative work adds something to the plaintiff's name or likeness, giving it a new meaning, or that the value of the work itself doesn't come primarily from the value of the plaintiff's name or likeness., If you intend to argue your use fits into an exception, you may benefit from hiring an experienced First Amendment or media law attorney.


Your state or local bar association will have a directory of attorneys licensed to practice law near you. Often these directories are available on the bar association's website, and you can search for attorneys who practice in particular areas.
Look for attorneys who have experience defending against misappropriation or other invasion of privacy cases.
Nonprofit organizations dedicated to First Amendment issues also will have legal resources available., If your use falls within a Constitutional or statutory exception, you can state this defense in your answer to the complaint.


Keep in mind that just because you raise this defense in your answer, you don't have to argue it at trial – if the case even gets to that point. Stating the defense in your answer merely preserves your right to argue it later on.
If you believe your use falls into one of the exceptions – either those recognized under the First Amendment or those included in your state's law – you should assert that defense as soon as possible.
 If you are asserting an exception, you typically bear the burden of proving that it applies to your use.Context matters a lot with defenses against appropriation of name or likeness claims. If you're arguing one of these exceptions, you must be prepared to prove that your use falls into that exception.

