 Pour ⅓ cup (177 ml) of water into a small saucepan. Carefully sprinkle 1 tablespoon (9.25 g) of powdered gelatin over the water, whisking the entire time to prevent lumps from forming.Gelatin contains keratin proteins, which bond with the hair to strengthen it.
If you hair needs extra moisture, you can substitute coconut milk for the water.
You can also use peppermint, rosemary, or nettle herbal tea in place of the water. They help boost shine.
 Place the water and gelatin mixture on the stove, and turn the heat to medium. Allow the mixture to heat until steam starts rising from the saucepan, which should take approximately 5 to 8 minutes.Stir the mixture regularly as it heats so the gelatin doesn’t stick to the bottom of the pan.
 Once the mixture is steaming, take the pan off the heat and allow it to cool for 5 minutes. Next, mix in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of apple cider vinegar and 1 teaspoon (7 g) of honey, stirring until all of the ingredients are fully combined.The mixture should still be warm, but not hot enough to be uncomfortable to touch when you mix in the other ingredients.
In addition to the vinegar and honey, you can mix in 1 to 2 tablespoons (50 to 100 g) of mashed banana or avocado or 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of oil, such as olive, coconut, almond or argan, for extra moisture.
 While the mixture is still warm, use your hands to work it through wet, clean hair from the roots to the ends. When your entire head is covered, let the mask sit on your hair for 10 to 30 minutes.The longer you allow the mask to sit on your hair, the better results that you’ll see.
If you plan to leave the mask on for longer than 10 minutes, put a shower cap over your head or wrap your hair in plastic wrap to keep the mask from drying out.
 When it’s time to remove the mask, use lukewarm water to carefully wash it out of your hair. Follow up with a good conditioner, and let your hair air dry.Using the mask once a month is usually enough to see results. Don’t use it more than once a week.

