 Make sure that you have everything you plan to sell in the listing before you create it. This includes the perfume bottle, inner spray cap, and outer cap. If you have the original box, grab that, too.


You might be able to sell the perfume even if you're missing a few non-essential pieces, like the outer cap or box. Be aware of the fact that missing pieces will lower the market value of the perfume, though.;
, Most perfume can be sold on eBay, but the website does have a few restrictions worth noting.Used perfume must not have an applicator that comes into contact with the body.
Perfumes must comply with FDA regulations, regardless of whether they are commercially produced or homemade.
If the perfume has been opened but is still unused, you must still mention that the container has been opened.
 The precise price range you set for your perfume will vary depending on the age of the perfume, its current condition, and the current market value of the perfume.


If the perfume is still sold in stores, your listing will need to be well below retail value. Perfumes that are rare or discontinued may sell for a higher price point than they did when they were actively on the market, though.
One of the easiest ways to determine the best price point is to search for your perfume by brand and fragrance name on eBay. Check through the current listings for that fragrance, noting the price of those in similar conditions to the perfume you're selling. The price you set should be close to the price marked for these similar listings, but you can sell yours at a higher price if it is in better condition than all of the others presently listed.If you are selling a rare perfume or discontinued fragrance, you may need to consult a perfume collector's guidebook to determine its current value. Use the indicated value as a guide when setting your own price point.
 You must include a photograph of the perfume you're selling in its present condition.


If the perfume is new and sealed in its box, you can take a photograph of the sealed box. Make sure that the name of the perfume and bottle size are legible in the picture. You should also show the unopened seal.
If the box has been opened but you still have it, take a picture of the bottle with the box beside it.
If you can see through the bottle, make sure that the remaining amount of perfume can be seen clearly. For bottles that are not transparent, you need to specify how frequently the perfume had been used and how much is left.Use a plain white background when snapping photographs of colored bottles so that the true color of the glass and the perfume itself can be clearly seen. If you have a clear glass bottle, use a plain black background.
You can also include a photograph of the perfume from the manufacturer's website, but only as a secondary picture. Always include a picture of the actual product being sold.
 If you haven't done so already, you will need to create an eBay account.


Go to the registration page: https://reg.ebay.com/reg/PartialReg?ru=

Enter your name, e-mail address, and password before hitting the "Submit" button.
Follow the on-screen instructions to select a username and complete the registration process.
You will also need to link a payment method to your account. PayPal is the most popular option, but you can also use a credit or debit card.
 When you start the listing, your title should include the brand name, fragrance name, size, and condition. After setting the title, hit the "Get Started" button to continue.


To start a listing, you will need to click on the "Sell" link on the "My eBay" section of the website. You should be redirected to the "Start a new listing" page, and from there, you can enter a title for your listing and work through the rest of the process.
Choose an appropriate category for your listing when prompted. Usually, perfumes should be listed somewhere under the "Fragrances" section of the "Healthy & Beauty" category.
As you set up your listing, you will also need to upload a photograph, enter a description, pick a selling format (auction or Buy It Now), set the price, and set the time frame for the auction.
 Since the buyer does not have the opportunity to test the scent before the purchase, you should describe it as thoroughly as possible.


At minimum, you should describe the basic fragrance type of the perfume. Most perfumes can be classified by one of five categories: floral, citrus, green, spicy, or earthy.If you know of any specific scents (vanilla, sandalwood, rose, etc.) that have been included in the formula, mention them by name.
When in doubt, check the manufacturer's description of the fragrance for more information on the scent itself.
 At minimum, you need to indicate whether or not the bottle has any dents, scratches, chips, stains, or worn spots. You should also note the bottle type.Most perfumes will be sold in standard spray bottles, but if the bottle is an atomizer, that detail is worth noting. An atomizer bottle has a squeeze ball attached to the spray nozzle, and for many perfume collectors, that bottle design is more desirable than the standard spray bottle would be.
Describe the material the bottle is made from. Most perfume bottles are made from glass, but some can be made from plastic.Indicate the width, height, and depth of the bottle, even if you have already mentioned how much perfume is inside. More detail is better than less if you want to make your buyers happy.
Look for any manufacturer's signatures or labels on the bottle. Mention any such details if they exist.
Describe the label, too. State the material the label is made from and the current condition of that label.
 You need to state in clear terms whether the perfume is brand new, opened but unused, or used.


Even if the perfume level can be seen in the picture, you should clearly specify how much is left. If you do not know the exact amount, estimate it, erring on the side of caution by guessing too low rather than too high. Buyers probably won't complain if they get more perfume than indicated, but they will if they feel you cheated by selling them an amount less than what you indicated.
 You need to state both the fragrance name and the manufacturer's name. Sometimes, two separate fragrances can have the same name even though they were produced by different manufacturers. Mentioning both can clear any possible confusion.


Mentioning the manufacturer's name can also assure the buyer than the perfume is authentic and not a bootleg scent.
It may also help to note whether or not the company is a famous one.
 Any other notable piece of information that has not been covered by the basics should be included in your description, as well.


For instance, if you are including the original box with the bottle of perfume, mention that in your listing. This is especially important if the perfume bottle has some collector's value.
If you're selling discontinued perfume or a vintage perfume bottle, you will need to indicate how old the perfume is. Include the manufactured date for any perfume older than five years and any empty perfume bottle older than ten years.
If you are selling a valuable perfume, consider quoting a perfume collector's guide on its current market value. Cite the book, author, and page.
 Periodically check on your listing to determine how much interest there is in the perfume you're selling.


You might be able to make adjustments to the auction to increase the likelihood of selling the perfume. For instance, if you aren't getting any bids, you might be able to lower the reserve price up until the last 12 hours of the auction.
 You should receive an e-mail once the perfume sells. Send the invoice as soon as possible, then prepare the perfume so that you can ship it within the next one or two business days.


Note that you should wait until you receive payment before shipping the package.
 Perfume is considered a hazardous material, so no matter which organization you choose to ship it through, there will be some restrictions on the method and packaging.


Legally, you will only be able to ship the perfume within the continental United States. The shipping method may also be restricted to ground transportation only, and you may need to fill out a form or special label to accompany your package.
To learn more about various shipping restrictions, visit the website of the shipping organization you plan to use.

USPS: https://www.usps.com/ship/shipping-restrictions.htm

FedEx: http://www.fedex.com/us/service-guide/our-services/dangerous-goods/index.html

UPS: http://www.ups.com/content/us/en/resources/ship/hazardous/service_definition.html



You can also call customer support for additional information.

USPS: 1-800-ASK-USPS
FedEx: 1-800-463-3339
UPS: 1-800-PICK-UPS



, Pack the bottle of perfume in a secure box with plenty of packing material to prevent it from shifting during shipment. Secure packaging is crucial if you want to prevent the bottle from breaking and the perfume from leaking.Choose a sturdy box. Ideally, there should be approximately 4 inches (10 cm) of space around each side of the bottle.
Wrap the bottle in several layers of bubble wrap. Tape the bubble wrap in place.
When packing multiple bottles, make sure that there is space in between each one. Cushion each one separately and do not allow them to touch.
Any extra space in the box should be filled with additional bubble wrap, packing peanuts, newspaper, or air-filled shipping pillows.
Place an invoice indicating the recipient's name and address in the box. The invoice should also describe the contents of the package.
Seal the box with packing tape.
After everything is sealed, gently shake the box. You should not be able to hear or feel anything move around inside.
 Write both the buyer's address and your return address on the outside of the package. Drop your package off at the shipping organization of your choosing, fill out any necessary forms, and pay the shipping rate. After that, you've completed the process on your end.


Consider purchasing tracking or delivery confirmation for your package so that you know when the buyer has received it.
You may also wish to check in with your buyer after the package reaches him or her. Ask the buyer to contact you if there were any problems with the delivery and politely request positive feedback if the experience was a good one.

