 Acknowledge that you support him playing football. Make sure he knows it too. If either you or your boyfriend feel no support towards each other, the relationship isn't going to work out. Show your support by showing up to his games, talking about how good he is or even just cuddling him and saying, "Well done". If he knows that you love what he does, he'll love you.;
, If he gets sent off and you cheer him, things will end badly. If you don't quite understand the rules of football, learn them. The internet can be your best friend here. You don't have a become an expert, just understand the basic rules like the roles of all the players, how to score, what's a foul and what's not and the offside rule. The last one can be quite tricky to understand. Why not ask your boyfriend? He'll be glad you're interested.
 You need to know and learn how to plan things around his busy schedule. Since odds are he is going to be practicing for a few hours every day, make sure you know when that time will be so you don't plan anything important that he can't go to. If you feel that you're not getting enough time with your boyfriend, ask him if you can go to his practice sessions. This could also help you learn the rules of the game. Your boyfriend will be hungry after practice, so why not take him out for some food and offer to pay?

, This step is by far the hardest. Everyone want to be the only thing on their boyfriend's mind. However, when your boyfriend is a dedicated footballer, the game is his top priority. If you've been going to games and practices, you'll understand how much it means to him. Support him on this one. Don't worry--he still loves you.
 Going to his games is very important to your guy. It shows that you support him, and likes knowing that you are there cheering him on. Be sure not to embarrass him! No guy want to hear, "That's my baby!" every two seconds. This is part of supporting him too--if he knows you're into his games, he'll be into you. If you can't make it to every game, don't sweat it. He'll understand that you can be busy too.
 If he's the only one on his team that you know, you're not doing too well. Don't worry though, you'll probably meet some of them at practices. Know the starting eleven (the main team), the substitutes and even the reserves. If your guy is hanging out with his football friends and he invites you, don't turn it down. Know his coaches too. They'll help him a lot in his career!

, Be his biggest fan! Make shirts and have flags and signs or whatever else you want to do to show everyone that you're his biggest fan! Always dress in the team colors at games too. However, be careful about overdoing it.

