 When we are rejected, we may try to ignore our feelings to avoid feeling the pain. Instead of trying to ignore how you are feeling, allow yourself to feel bad for a little while. If you have been hurt badly and you feel like you need to cry, go ahead. Acknowledging your feelings will help you to move on and cope with the rejection.Take time to identify the reason why you feel left out, how it makes you feel, why it makes you feel that way. For example, “I feel left because my friends went to a party without me over the weekend. I feel betrayed and sad because it makes me think that they don’t really like me.”Try writing about how you feel in a journal. If you don’t like to write, drawing or playing music to reflect how you feel may also help you to acknowledge your feelings and deal with them.
 Telling a supportive friend or family member may help you feel better and help you express your emotions. It may also help to reassure you that even though your friends made you feel left out and unwanted, people do care about you. If you decide to talk to someone, make sure to choose someone who is supportive and who will listen to you. Choosing someone who will brush off your feelings or who will not offer good support may make you feel worse., Another very important means for dealing with situations in which you feel left out by your friends is to tell them how you feel and ask them about their reasons for leaving you out. Let them know that you felt left out by explaining what the occasion was and why you wished they had asked you along or stayed with you at an event. And it's also important to ask your friends politely why the situation occurred as it did. Don't assume they are to blame for leaving you out. Just ask considerate questions that can lead to a fruitful dialog. You might say something like:


"I felt really sad when you guys went rollerblading last Saturday and didn't ask me along too. I know I was tired Friday night but I was up for doing things on Saturday and it wasn't until X told me you guys were out there that I knew I'd not been asked to come too. I felt pretty left out. Was there any reason why you didn't think to ask me too?"
"I loved the party we went to last week but I felt abandoned when you and X left the conversation. That new guy was not interested in talking to me and when I looked for you two, I couldn't find you anywhere and I felt really left out because I didn't know anyone else. Maybe you didn’t realize I wanted to hang out with you and X more than talk to the new guy? Did you realize that I was all alone at the party?"

, They may be surprised that you felt left out. They may tell you that your recent illness/recent break-up/visiting relatives/lack of funds/parental control, whatever, was the reason behind their choice not to include you. Use this as an opportunity to set straight any assumptions they may hold that caused them to leave you out.


Be honest with yourself. Have you done things to cause your friends to want to leave you out? For instance, have you been demanding, pushy, or thoughtless about their needs lately? Or perhaps you have overcrowded them a little. This may be the reason they left you out in the first place, to find space and peace. If this is the case, own up to it, apologize, and be determined to make changes.

