 The naturals oils produced by your scalp help to combat frizzy, dry hair. Shampoo strips these oils from your hair. Fight frizz by decreasing the number of times you shampoo your tresses each week. After rinsing your hair with warm water, apply a sulfate-free, moisturizing shampoo to your roots. As you lather up the shampoo, avoid applying the product to the shaft and ends of your hair. Rinse out the product with warm water.Always use a moisturizing shampoo.
If you have fine hair, try lathering up every other day.
If you have have thick hair, try going two to three days between washes.If you have excessively dry, fragile, and or porous hair, shampoo your locks every one to two weeks.Instead of using a traditional shampoo, consider experimenting with the no-poo or co-wash products. These shampoo free products will cleanse your scalp and moisturize your hair without drying out your tresses.;
, When dry, porous hair takes in moisture from the air, the hair shaft swells and becomes frizzy. You can prevent this from happening by deep conditioning your hair. After shampooing your hair, coat the hair shafts, never the roots, with a protein-rich deep conditioner and let it sit for five minutes. Once the deep conditioner has penetrated your hair, rinse it out with cool water to seal the cuticle., Hair masks and hot oil treatments are an excellent way to infuse your dry locks with extra moisture and strengthen the cuticle. Once every one to two weeks, coat your hair with the restorative mask or hot oil treatment of your choice.


When applying a hair mask, coat your hair with the product and then cover your head with a shower cap. Let the product to sit for the time allotted in the product’s instructions. Rinse out your hair thoroughly. Search for treatments that contain keratin, protein and natural oils. Avoid products that include parabens and sulfate.
When applying a hot oil treatment, coat your freshly washed and towel dried hair with the product. Place a shower cap over your head and then apply heat via the sun, a blow dryer, or a hot towel. Allow your hair to cool to room temperature and then rinse with cold water.