 Some studies have shown that patients who have acne also have lower levels of stomach acid. Because of this, it can be a good idea to consume bitter herbs with meals. Bitter herbs can stimulate digestion and change stomach acid levels, possibly lowering the chances of a future acne outbreak.Most extracts will have the appropriate dosage listed on the bottle.
Some examples of bitter herbs include dandelion leaf and root, yarrow, wormwood, and gentian.
Always consume bitter herbs with meals.
Try adding dark, bitter greens to your meals or salads. For example, adding arugula can be a simple way to consume more bitters.
Eating some dandelion leaves with your meal can be a simple way to add bitters to your meal.
 Many acne treatments may help reduce the effects of an outbreak, but can be harmful or rough on your skin. Using rhassoul clay may help to reduce the chances of future outbreaks without causing additional damage. Try applying some rhassoul clay to affected areas to help slow down oil production and possibly even prevent further outbreaks.Mix 1 teaspoon of rhassoul clay with warm water to create a paste. This can be worn as a face mask.
You can try mixing other herbs into the clay for a greater effect. Green tea leaves can be a good addition if your face is oily. Adding chamomile can help with redness.
Try to use rhassoul clay daily. Remove if your skin starts to feel dry or tight.
 Your diet has a wide range of effects on your health and well being. Diet can also have an effect on how likely you are to have an acne outbreak. Making some simple changes to your diet can be a natural way for you to lower the severity and frequency of acne outbreaks. Keep some of the following ideas in mind when reviewing your diet:Try to steer clear of processed foods. Eat more whole foods instead, such as fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.
Lower your intake of dairy products.
Foods that are high in carbohydrates may trigger acne outbreaks. These include things like bread and pasta.
 Stress may also cause acne outbreaks, so it is important to keep your stress under control. Whenever possible, try to reduce the amount of stress in your daily life to help lessen the severity of any acne problem.You might try meditation or exercise to lower stress.
Going for a peaceful walk outdoors can be a good way to relax.
If possible, avoid any situations that you find stressful.

