 This method involves stapling your booklet against a soft material, then manually pushing the staples down against the booklet. You may use corrugated cardboard, foam, or any other material soft enough for the staples to dig into without attaching. Only use material you don't mind damaging.


If you have a large number of booklets to staple, you'll probably prefer the Specialized Stapler method.
If you don't have any suitable material and your booklet is thin, try the Two Books method.;
, Make sure all the pages are in order and aligned with each other. The outside cover should be visible, not the inner pages, or you will have more trouble folding the booklet after stapling.
 Grasp the upper arm near the joint, not next to the staple-deploying head. Use your other hand to hold down the base, and pull up on the arm. The two sections of the stapler should swing apart.
 The center of the booklet should receive 2–4 evenly spaced staples to form the spine, depending on how large the booklet is and how sturdy you would like it to be. Each staple should run in the same direction as the spine (vertical when the finished booklet is held for reading), so you can fold the sheets of paper in half around the staples without tearing them. Align your stapler head according to these guidelines.
 Because you are stapling the paper against corrugated cardboard or other soft material, you may not hear the distinctive stapler sound you're used to. Push down firmly, then release and pick up the stapler.
 Most likely, the staple is partially attached to the cardboard beneath. Lifting the booklet slowly and gently should pull the two prongs of the staple out of the cardboard, but you may need to bend the staple straight with your finger before pulling.


If the staple is firmly attached to the material, the material is too thin to use for this purpose. Detach the staple with a staple remover, then try again with thicker, corrugated cardboard.
 After detaching the staple from the material beneath, you should see the two prongs poking through the paper, but not folded down. Fold these down toward each other along the spine's length. You may use your fingers, approaching carefully from the side to avoid the sharp point, or lay the paper flat and gently hammer them down with any hard object.
 Place the booklet over the cardboard again and align the stapler head over the next portion of the spine to be stapled. Try to line up the staples as evenly as possible.

