
Flip off power in the room you're working.
Screw your two boxes and light fixture into place, then gather your supplies.
Slide the 2-wire NM power cable into the first switch box.
Remove about 9 inches of sheathing from the wire.
Run a 3-wire NM cable between the first and second boxes.
Use a cable staple to secure the wires to the wall or stud within 8" of the box.
Pull another 2-wire NM cable through the second switch box, just like you did in the very beginning with the first box.
Pull the 2-wire cable from the second box up and into the light fixture.
Strip 1" off of the individual ends of all the smaller wires.
Curve the ends of every black and red cable into small hooks.
Use wire nuts to attach the each set of two white wires together.
Use wire nuts to attach the two pairs of green/orange grounding wires together, adding a 6" piece of copper grounding wire to each pair as well.
After making all your connections, fold the wires neatly into the box.
Replace the drywall, coverings, etc.
Attach the black power cable (from the wall) to the general screw (black) in the three-way light switch.
Attach the remaining black and red cables (from 3-wire NM) to the traveler screws on the switch.
Attach the hanging ground wire (the pigtail) to the green grounding screw.
Attach the black wire leading to the light to your general screw (black).
Attach the appropriate wires to your light fixture.
Select the proper wire size.
Select the proper cable type.
Shut power off.
Install a 2 wire cable between the power source (outlet box, electric panel, etc) and the first switch box.
Install a 3 wire cable from the first switch box to the light fixture's box.
Install a 3 wire cable from the second switch box to the light fixture's box.
Connect ground wires.
Connect feed wires in the first switch box.
Connect 3 wire cable in the first switch box.
Connect wires in the light fixture's box.
Connect 3 wire cable in the second switch box to the switch.
Connect the fixture.
Finish up.
Understand non-metallic cables.
Understand armored cable types, including BX, MC and AC.
Know the restrictions of each cable type.
If the power source is from an armored cable that lacks a full size (#12 or #14) ground wire, use a metal box to extend the ground from the armored shell to the box and to the circuit's ground wire.
Become familiar with cable naming conventions.