
Get a small metal can.This can will be used to contain water that will be heated as part of the calorimetric measurements.
Get a larger metal can.
Puncture four small holes in the small can.Using a hole punch, ice pick, or other implement, carefully puncture four small holes (each one directly across from another) in the small metal can.
Slide two thin rods between the four holes in the can.Slide one rod through the can to the other side, then repeat with the other rod and the two remaining holes; the two rods should cross each other.
Fill the small can with water.Using a graduated cylinder, flask, or other container, pour 100 mL of distilled water in the small metal can.

,
Measure the temperature of the water.Using a mercury thermometer (not a digital one), take the initial temperature of your water.
Place the small can inside of the larger one.The small metal can should rest securely inside the larger one, supported by the rods made of glass or another nonflammable material.
Unfold a paperclip and insert one end into a cork.A standard-size paperclip will be used to hold the food inside the calorimeter.
Obtain some food to test.Weigh the food using an accurate scale, and record the measurement.
Prepare the cork food holder.Carefully wrap the end of the paperclip that is not sticking in the cork around the food you will test (or pierce it with the paperclip).

,
Light the food.Set the cork on a flat, nonflammable surface so that the food on the paperclip is sticking up.
Let the food burn.Keep the cans over the food for as long as it takes to burn completely.
Check the temperature of the water.Once the food has completely burned out, stir the water in the small can using the thermometer.
Weigh the burnt food.Once the burnt food has cooled completely, remove it from the paperclip.
Understand the formula you will need to calculate calories.The formula used to determine the caloric value of a sample of food using a homemade calorimeter is relatively simple: calories = volume of water (in mL) x the temperature change (in Celsius) of the water.
Gather the data you need to calculate.
Calculate the calories contained in the food.