
Tell Someone.
Be prepared!,
Hire a local guide.
Bring what you need.
Bring the right type of Clothing.
A light weight long sleeve shirt, light weight durable long pants, a wide brimmed hat,leech socks, and sturdy shoes.
If you are in an area with leeches get leech socks which are usually made with a tightly woven cotton bottom and a nylon gator which goes to the knee you tuck your pants into.
You should also carry a change of socks and a spare shirt, it's nice to have dry things to change into.

,
Underwear...Since you will be sweating and or otherwise getting wet again a synthetic fabric is a good choice so you don't chafe or get "monkey butt" Or you can go commando (which derives from soldiers not wearing underwear or socks in jungles for better air circulation) to reduce incidences of trench foot and fungal crotch.

,
Pack.
Be sure to bring the Essentials.
If you are lost find running water, a river or stream.Follow it down usually to people.If you get off a trail the jungle literally "closes in" around you, you won't be able to see more that ten feet in any direction so a river can be a road out.

,
Stay hydrated!,
Water is heavy so most people don't carry enough so even if you're on a day hike carry a means of purifying water i.e.
If you don't have a way of purifying water you can use big wide palm or banana leaf to collect rainwater or that pack cover you wisely brought.

,
Have a way of building a fire.
Matches are the least reliable...remember humid and wet?,
For the same reasons matches aren't reliable, humid and wet...you should carry some form of tinder.
Or commercially available tinder is OK. A sun based method like a magnifying lens is hard to use as there may not be any sunlight in a dense jungle or cloudy sky's.

,
Don't forget food.
Never forget a knife.
Something like a multi-tool is also a great option, there are many to choose from the Leatherman Wave is great it has locking blades, a saw, scissors and of course the pliers.
Let there be Light.
Be sure to have some types of navigational tools.
Pack a bandanna.
Keep it with you.
Don't forget the extras.
Get a light weight nylon waterproof tarp.
If you have room in your pack a hammock (even the net style survival type works in a pinch) is the best way to sleep in the jungle, the ground is usually wet and bug ridden, with a hammock and tarp you'll be quite comfortable.
Stay clean!!,
A small stove.

,
Solid fuel stoves are easy to use and light so if you can't get a fire going you can heat water in your can.

,
A larger flashlight and spare batteries.

,
GPS.
A pack towel, small light towel.

,
A small machete or "parang" (bigger is not better) and as with all tools learn how to use it properly and safely.

,
Fishing gear.

,
Tobacco.
The jungle is a great place to experience nature and enjoy being in the bush.