
Get an education.
Seek internships.It can be difficult to get an internship in private banking while you are still a student.
Get certified.There are a number of certifications available to private bankers.
Get licensed.In order to practice as a private banker in many areas, you must be licensed by a regulatory organization.
Network extensively.To work as a private banker, you must become acquainted with HNWIs and UHNWIs, and get them to entrust you with servicing their financial needs.
Decide if you want to work on your own or join an existing private banking firm.If you can develop a list of potential or current clients, this will vastly increase your chances of getting a job as a private banker.
Make use of social media like LinkedIn to search for jobs.In today’s world, employers often seek out job candidates through social media and other networking venues.
Send out lots of resumes.Most people that look for a job in private banking will send out many resumes before they find one.
Start off in personal banking.Private banking can be difficult to enter because there are relatively few positions in the field, and because private bankers must develop a network of HNWIs.
Move up to privilege banking.If you gain enough experience in personal banking, you may be able to move up within your firm to a position providing privilege banking services.
Start off as a private banker’s assistant.You may also be able to work toward gaining a job as a private banker by first working as a private banker’s assistant.
Enter private banking from another area of finance.Some individuals break into private banking by first working in another area, such as investment banking.
Research the banking world constantly.HNWIs typically ask private bankers to manage very large amounts of money, and so you must always be highly knowledgeable of the financial world.
Practice superior customer service.HNWIs look to private bankers to provide a great deal of personal attention, since they may be entrusted with large portfolios and investments.
Learn how to manage portfolios well.
Help clients with wealth structuring.Managing a HNWI’s wealth involves not only finding ways to protect and grow that wealth, but also understanding the context of that wealth, and how it may change over time.
Offer estate and trust planning services.Many clients seek advice on managing their estates or trusts—those assets which they plan to leave behind or distribute to others.
Keep your Assets Under Management (AUM) high and growing.