
Check if your manufacturer allows unlocking the bootloader.
Check if your carrier allows unlocking the bootloader.
Understand the risks and limitations.
Download the Android SDK tools you'll need.
Extract the ZIP file.
Run Android SDK Manager.
Uncheck everything except Android SDK Platform-tools.Click Install.
Download and install the USB drivers for device.Connect your Android to your computer via USB.
Open the platform-tools folder in the folder your SDK tools are in.
Hold ⇧ Shift and right-click in the folder.
Click Open command window here.
Type adb devices and press ↵ Enter.Open your Android's Settings.Scroll to the bottom and tap About phone.
Tap the Build Number entry seven times.Return to Settings and tap Developer Options.
Enable OEM unlocking (if present).
Enable USB debugging.
Open your device manufacturer's unlock code procedure instructions.
Reboot your device into the fastboot menu.
Type the unlock key retrieval command in ADB.
Copy the device ID code.
Submit your device ID code to the manufacturer.
Run the command specified by your manufacturer.
Confirm that you want to unlock.
Type fastboot reboot on your computer.
Look for the Bootloader Unlocked message.
Find and follow a device-specific guide if you can't unlock the bootloader.
Visit the TWRP website.Click the Devices tab.
Verify that your device is supported.
Click the link for your device.
Click the Download link.
Copy the IMG file to your ADB folder.
Rename the file to twrp.img.
Type adb reboot bootloader in the Command Prompt.
Type fastboot flash recovery twrp.img and press ↵ Enter.Type fastboot reboot and press ↵ Enter.
Press and hold the Volume Up and Power buttons as the device reboots.
Enter your PIN if prompted.
Tap Backup.
Select Boot, System, and Data.
Swipe the bar to begin the backup.Return to the Backup menu and clear all of the options.
Scroll to the bottom and select your special partition after Recovery.
Start another backup with your special partition selected.
Visit the XDA forums.
Open the subforum for your device.
Scroll down to the ROMS, KERNELS, RECOVERIES, & OTHER DEVELOPMENT section.
Find a ROM that looks interesting.
Look for features and limitations.
Carefully read the entire post for the ROM.
Click the Download link for the ROM file.
Visit the GApps download site.
Select your device's configuration on the GApps site.
Click the Download button.
Connect your Android to your computer.
Open your Android's storage on your computer.
Copy the ROM and GApps ZIP files onto your Android.Disconnect your phone after transferring.
Power off your Android device.
Boot your Android into recovery mode.
Tap Wipe.
Swipe the bar to perform a factory reset.Tap Install on the TWRP main menu.
Scroll down and tap the ZIP file for your ROM.
Swipe the bar to start flashing.
Return to the main menu after flashing and tap Install again.Scroll down and tap the GApps ZIP file.
Swipe the bar to begin the installation.
Tap Wipe cache/dalvik and then swipe to confirm.
Tap Reboot System.