
Tracing debtors can be a difficult task.
When trying to trace a debtor it is best if you can look into the person’s financial history and see if you can pinpoint something that can lead you to believe one of the above reasons is true, for example


The person was a regular payer until a particular date
The person has never paid any of the money owed

,
Now you should have a vague idea as to the reason for none payment and you can tailor your actions accordingly.

,
The first thing to do is to speak directly to the debtor, for this you will need to have been smart at the start of the business relationship, time after time firms carry out hundreds if not thousands of pounds worth of work for a client or customer without having all the customers contact details, if you are dealing with an individual or sole trader you need to make sure you have


Home address/work address
Home telephone number
Mobile number
Valid email address

,
These are the minimum requirements; you should also try for partners name and date of birth.
Once you have all this information you need to check it, try different numbers to contact your customer so in the event of them not paying you can get in touch with them quickly and resolve any matters before they escalate.
When calling a debtor make sure you try at different times of the day, if you only call at one particular time and receive no answer then this could simply be because the debtor is working at that particular time.
If you still receive no response it is worth following up on one of the above actions but if you wish to persist then the next step is to confirm that they are still at the address.
Assuming that the debtor is still residing at the address it is time to follow up the threats with some action, you need to instruct a debt collection agency or solicitor to collect the debt on your behalf because you have run out of other legal options.
If the debtor has moved it can become very difficult especially if they have moved within the last three months, this is because it takes around this amount of time for the debtor to start showing at the new address.
The best piece of advice is to collect as much information about the person when they are prepared to give you it i.e.
Finally good luck with any trace and collect work you undertake.