

Plan your visit.

Take a moment to look at the unique architecture of the museum building.

Go through the storefront glass doors at the entrance, and you will see restored vintage aircraft hanging from the building's structural steel overhead.
Continue into the lobby of the museum, and you will be greeted by one of the hosts who volunteer their time and energy to greeting and helping visitors to the museum.
Note that the museum charges no admission to visitors who simply want to tour the main display floors and visit exhibits.

Walk around the front display area, and you will see large, scale models of various flat-tops from the history of the U.S. Navy.

Turn to the right as you exit the museum lobby, and you will see the desk where the host or hostess sits to provide more information about the museum, and where you can join a guided tour so you can benefit form the expert knowledge of the tour guide as you visit the many exhibits and view the 150 aircraft displayed in the museum.
,

Continue walking into the main deck area of the museum if you choose to bypass the guided tours, and you will enter the South Wing, where you will see aircraft and artifacts from as early as World War I, up to some of the most modern warplanes used in the world today.
,

Look to your right, if you choose a path along the right wall of the South Wing, and you will see the entrance to the Cubi Bar and Grill, which was dismantled at Subic Bay Naval Base, Philippines, and reassembled completely here in the museum.

Visit the tribute display to the late comedian, Bob Hope, honoring his many Christmas visits to cheer up troops deployed overseas during the holidays.

Continue forward, across the south wing, and you will find the Modern Aircraft display, and the Top Gun Simulator, a real pilot training simulator used to familiarize Naval Aviators with the cockpit of an F-14 Tomcat aircraft.

Continue through the south wing, and you will travel into the Blue Angels Atrium, where you will see a complete formation of A-4 Skyhawk aircraft flown by the Blue Angels in years gone by.

Watch, as you travel the museum floor, and you will see stairways which lead to an upper deck, arranged around the exterior wall of the museum where you can traverse to observe the many aircraft suspended from the building's structural steel at eye level.

Travel to your left, again, if you are exiting the Blue Angels Atrium, and you will find the flight deck, removed from the USS Cabot and reassembled on the museum floor as an exhibit.

Look beyond the USS Cabot flight deck and you will see the Korean War display to your left, and to your right you will see the Museum Library, named in honor of a museum benefactor, Emil Buehler.

View the outside museum exhibits by going out the doors located at the left side of the Blue Angels Atrium.
Consider making a contribution to the museum foundation, as donations are the sole source of funding for maintaining, expanding, and operating the museum.