
Adolescent rats need proper nutrition, make sure to give them the proper food for their age.

,
Adolescent rats love to play.
Create a small boxing ring on floor level and put one or more rats in.
Make a soccer field.
Create a Fort with paper cardboard and make it rat accessible.
Make a maze using cardboard or styrofoam (e.g.
Be sure that the room you are going to bathe your rats in is comfortable and draft free.Bathing Supplies

,
Cleaning agents you can use for your rat:


Baby shampoo
Mild Oatmeal shampoo
Kitten shampoo
Dishwashing liquid (tail or greasy back)

,
Gather your supplies before you bring the rat in.
For rinsing you can fill another sink (or pan) with rinse water or leave a stream of warm water running from the faucet to rinse with.Restraining

,
Every rat has a distinct personality and they react differently to bathing.
The best approach is to assume that any rat you are bathing may react adversely and is capable of inflicting bite and/or scratch wounds during the bath.
You will need to have both a front and a back hold, as you will need to switch to clean and rinse its entire body.
One good restraining hold is to place your thumb and ring finger around the rat’s body below the front legs with your middle and index fingers above the front legs close to the neck.
Talk soothingly to the rat and try to make the bath quick and efficient.Bathing

,
Once your water is ready pick up your rat and wet the fur.
If you have not added soap to the water then put it on the rat’s fur.
Avoid getting any soap or water in the rat’s ears or eyes.
After bathing, thoroughly rinse all of the soap from your rat.

,Drying

,
Place your wet rat in an absorbent towel and dry it off.
After the bathing it is a good idea to give your rat a treat or two.Special Needs Rats

,
With elderly rats or rats with health concerns bathing requires special care.
Rats with hind end paralysis need their stomachs and their genital area cleaned regularly due to the fact that they cannot raise themselves up off the cage floor.
Please take special care to completely dry these rats before returning them to their cages.

,Tail Cleaning

,
Often rats’ tails drag on the floor (although some rats do tend to hold theirs up in the air).
Occasionally wiping down your rats tail with a mild warm soapy solution and a cloth or paper towel can help keep the tail area clean.
If your rat’s tail is extremely dirty you can soak the tail in warm soapy water to soften caked on debris.
NOTE: Always clean in the direction from the rump towards the tail tip when wiping or scrubbing your rat’s tail.

,
Cleaning in a direction towards the rump may cause dirt to get lodged beneath the tail “scales” and can result in irritation, inflammation, & possible infection.

