
Place your hibiscus in a spot that gets at least six hours of direct sunlight a day.
Hibiscus in containers should be outdoors in the summer and moved inside in the fall.
Maintain the right temperatures for indoor hibiscus.
Make soil mix with a lot of organic matter for your hibiscus.
Test the soil to determine its pH.
Select a planting site where the hibiscus will be protected from strong wind.
Use potting soil with a high pH for hibiscus in containers.
Spread a 2- to 3-inch depth of organic mulch around the hibiscus to help keep the soil moist.
Water your hibiscus as often as necessary to keep the soil lightly moist.
Water hibiscus in a container when the top of the soil begins to dry during the spring, summer, and fall.
Sprinkle a balanced, slow-release fertilizer with a 10-10-10 ratio over the soil around the hibiscus after planting.
Give outdoor hibiscus about 1/4 cup of fertilizer and give container-grown plants only a few tablespoons of fertilizer.
Do not give hibiscus fertilizer during the winter.
Prune your hibiscus after they finish blooming.
Be wary of insects, splashing water, and wind.
Notice if the cool, damp weather is encouraging the growth of Botrytis blight.
Prune off any infected stems, leaves, or flowers.
Disinfect your pruners and dry them between cuts to help prevent the spread of disease.
To help your plant recover from root rot, let the soil dry out before trying to water it again.
Prune out any branches affected with Verticillium wilt.
Re-plant the area with only Verticillium-resistant plants.
Check your hibiscus for aphids, mites, mealybugs, scales insects, and whiteflies.
Avoid pesticide treatments for pests.
Prune out severely infested branches and put them in the trash.
Hose down the hibiscus every other morning with a strong spray from the garden hose.
Remove mealybugs and scale insects by rubbing them off with a thumbnail or a cotton ball dipped in Isopropyl rubbing alcohol.
Pick off any Japanese beetles and caterpillars by hand and drown them in a bucket of soapy water.