
Determine room size in square feet by multiplying length by width in feet.
,
Determine window type and number.Determine number of walls of the space that are exterior walls.
Determine if the exterior walls and space directly above and below the room are insulated.Determine if any doors open to the outdoors from this room.
Calculate a baseline for total watts of electric heat required to heat the space.
Determine how much (if any) more watts of heat over the baseline watts to install.
Decide if / or how to break up the heaters.
Determine size and number of circuits required to serve the heating load.
Determine a location for the thermostat.
Trace a switch box on the wall at 60 inches (152.4 cm) up from the floor for the thermostat where there are no framing members, etc.
Provide a 2 wire circuit (#14 for 15 amp circuit or #12 for 20 amp circuit) of NM type (Romex) or similar cable from the electrical panel to the thermostat location.
Unpack the heater(s).
The two ends are wiring compartments.
Provide another 2 wire cable the same size as the one installed earlier between the panel and thermostat, between the thermostat and the baseboard heater.
Install an additional 2 wire cable between the first heater and next heater.Install the appropriate cable connector in the desired end of the heater(s).
Strip 8 inches (20.3 cm) of jacket from the cable(s) and install into the connector.Remove the wirenut from the heater wires in the compartment that the cables entered, and separate the wires.Connect the black wires of the cables you installed together if two cables were installed.Connect the white wires of the cables you installed together if two cables were installed.Connect the bare wires of the cables you installed together if two cables were installed.Connect the bare wire(s) to the green screw of the heater or, if provided, to the green or bare wire that is connected to the heater case by crimp or screw.Connect one of the loose heater wires (does not matter which) to the black wire(s).Connect the remaining loose heater wire to the white wire(s).Make sure the wirenut in the wiring compartment at the opposite end of the heater has the wires tightly connected together.Secure the heater to the wall.Secure the wiring compartment covers.Repeat for each heater.
Wire the thermostat.
The thermostat has (4) wires or terminals.
Connect LINE side to the black and white wires of the cable that was indicated as "feed" earlier.
Connect the remaining cable to the LOAD side of the thermostat.Coil the wires, never fold, into the back of the box and secure the thermostat.