
Consider your age.There is a very strong correlation between your age and your risk of developing prostate cancer.
Understand your family medical history.Another thing that increases your risk of developing prostate cancer in your lifetime is if you have a family history of prostate cancer.
Be aware that certain races are at higher risk for prostate cancer.African Americans have been shown to have a higher risk of developing prostate cancer than either Caucasian or Hispanic men.
Tell your doctor if you are experiencing problems with urination.One of the telltale signs of a possible prostate cancer — and certainly something that indicates that you are at higher risk for a possible prostate cancer — is problems with urination.
Take note of blood in your semen.Blood in your semen is another sign that is suspicious of prostate cancer, and increases the risk that you may have it.
Inform your doctor if you are experiencing pain either in your pelvic area, hips, or spine.Pain in your pelvic area may be due to a tumor of the prostate.
Discuss the pros and cons of prostate cancer screening with your physician.The choice of whether or not to screen for prostate cancer is a highly controversial one right now.
Ask your doctor to perform a DRE (digital rectal exam).A digital rectal exam (DRE) has limited and perhaps no value for screening (when a man has no symptoms); however, it can be essential when investigating symptoms, such as difficulty urinating or blood in semen.
Get a PSA (prostate specific antigen) test done if you have symptoms.A small amount of PSA can normally be detected in the blood; however, if your blood test shows an unusually elevated PSA, it may be an indication of prostate cancer.
Receive an ultrasound.If your clinical signs and symptoms and/or tests (such as a DRE or PSA) are suspicious for a possible prostate cancer, your doctor will likely recommend that you proceed with an ultrasound.
Opt for a prostate biopsy.If the ultrasound shows a mass, your doctor will likely use a needle to take several small samples of the prostate mass for a biopsy (that is, to be examined under the microscope).