
Think about the sort of colors you would like to wear.
Gather all your supplies.
Set up your workspace.
Set up your workstation.
Take two loops and make an infinity loop on the lower left rungs of your loom.
Take four more loops and put them on top of the first loop, without making them into infinity loops.
Take your metal hook tool.
Do the same thing for the left loops of the infinity loop.
Add another two loops on top of all three loops.








,
Using your metal hook tool, take the two loops of the same color at the bottom of the structure and pull them up and over, as in steps 4 and 5.








,
Repeat step 7 until you have a "fishtail" like looped structure of the size that you want.
Remove the bracelet from the loom.
Remove the bands that are sticking out from the end.
Add a C-hook to the end of the bracelet.
Attach the C-hook to the other end of the bracelet.
Set up your workstation.
Take your first color loop and place it diagonally on two rungs in the first and middle rows.
Take your second loop of the same color and place it horizontally on two rungs of the middle row.
Take your third loop of the same color and place it diagonally on two rungs in the middle and third rows.
Take three loops and place them horizontally on each row, moving left.
Repeat step five.
Continue repeating step 5, placing loops leftwards until near the end of the loom.
Repeat steps two, three, and four.
Make an infinity loop, double it back over itself, and place it on the final rung of the middle row on the lefthand side of the loom.








,
Place loops vertically across the first, middle, and third rows of the loom.
Turn the loom around 180 degrees.
Take your metal loop tool and with the open side of the hook facing away from you, push back the single, doubled loop on the last middle rung and grab the top, colored band beneath it.








,
Loop the top, colored band diagonally back onto itself by placing it on the second-to-last rung of the first row.
Grab the bottom bands of all subsequent rungs on the first row, looping them back over themselves while moving leftwards down the loom.
Repeat steps 12 through 15, except looping the bands of the middle row horizontally while moving leftwards.
Repeat steps 12 through 15, except looping the bands of the third row first while moving leftwards.
Take your hook tool and push it beneath all the loops on the last rung of the middle row to the left.








,
Place another band on the hook tool and pull it through all the loops.








,
Loop this band back onto your hook tool, so that both ends of the band are now on the hook.
Remove the bracelet.
Extend the length of the bracelet.
Attach the end loop of the bracelet to the end rung of your new row of loops.
Turn your loom around so that the bracelet and the row of loops is facing away from you.

,
Take your hook tool and loop the new row of loops back on themselves.
Add a C-hook to the final loop of the new row of loops.
Take the new row of loops off of the loom.








,
Attach the C-hook the other end of the bracelet.