
Gather real world data.
Monitor the evolution of tweets.
Summarize topics/views as tweets.
Create a 'tweetstory'.
Collate classroom views (Homework (or netbooks or a computer lab)):


First...set up new Twitter account with name of topic or question

EG: Students discussing current economic climate might be: SaveOrSpend
Ask pupils to tweet @SaveOrSpend which they think is the wisest thing to do with your hard earned cash, or Government taxes
This allows you to study any topic that has an open question to ask

Then the Twitter account collates the classes tweets in a web page...

twitter.com/saveorspend (that's a dummy address so no need to URL it)




Instant collaborative web page with contributors' identities included



,
Let parents follow what you are doing.
Find out where people are.
Teach them to be 'short but sweet'.
Take a Twitter poll.
Word Morph


Student stuck trying to find a new or interesting word?,
Come together.
Teach Point of View and Character Development


Based on a novel or short story...

After a study of point of view and character development
Students become a character and create a Twitter account ex: @janeeyre, @rochester
Students use their study of that character to create conversations around key events in the plot
Would be even more interesting to focus on events and situations that are omitted from the text, but referred to, so the students are creating their own fiction based on their knowledge of the writer, the time period, and the characters



,
GeoTweet


This follows in the footsteps of some of the other tips

Introduce your class to the features of Google Earth by asking your Twitter network for a small piece of location info.
Study and learn Global Assembly


Ask your Twitter network to comment on local or national issues for a class or whole school assembly.
Do some word play.
Use the power of Twitter and communicate with experts.

,
Use a Twitter widget for instant webpage updates.

,
Monitor the learning process.
Use it to demonstrate probability.
Create 'twalter-egos'.