
Be yourself.
Ask her about herself.
Ask her a simple question.
She'll start random conversations with you.
If she walks by you and doesn't look at you or acknowledge you, it may be because she wants you to think she isn't interested.
Does she pay attention to you?,
Say something random to her.
Make sure to be nice to her.
If her friends look at her and then you, or whenever you are talking to her, her friends give looks at you and raise their eyebrows, this is also a good sign, and if somebody says she likes you, chances are she told them because she was hoping you would find out.
If you sit diagonal from her in class, her knees or shoulders will be pointed towards you.
If you are sitting beside her and she has her legs crossed over and her crossed over leg is towards you this may mean that she is comfortable in your company and likes to talk to you.

,
If you're sitting behind her, she will lean back on her chair, and try to get your attention (for example, copying your habits) and will look for ways to turn around and look at you (passing an assignment back, she'll turn around and look at you).

,
Another sign that you can tell if a girl likes you is if she smiles every time you come and talk to her.

,
Ask her out and see what she says.
If you like her, give her hints on Snapchat or Facebook, say.
If the girl is online, chat with her a bit, then tell her you have to go.
Notice her movements.
Pay attention to whether she changes her posture when you enter the class.
Here's a great hint that she likes you.
Notice when you tease her.
Don't talk to her best friend obsessively, as this could hint that maybe you like her best friend and that is not a good sign!,
When you're in the hallway, try to walk a couple of steps in front of her.
If you talk to her in class and she's quiet and quick speaking, but you talk to her on the phone or something and she's all loud and not nervous, she may like you.

,
Notice when she sits by you in class.
Get up a few times in class.
If she looks at you and doesn't say anything, then she is waiting for you to say something to start the conversation or give a simple sign to let her know that you notice her, like a wave and smile.
If you both have Facebook accounts or something similar and she starts chatting with you within five minutes of your arrival online, and this happens a few times, this is a good sign.
If you have known her for a long time, then if she likes you, she will start to change her behavior, unconsciously or consciously.
If you are friends and she goes to you with all her problems, it shows she trusts you and wants you to be part of her life.
If you play an online game and she is your friend on the game, she might start sending you a lot of presents.
If you make her laugh and she puts her head on your shoulder and puts her hand over yours there is a good chance she likes you.

,
If she is slouching forward with her head in her arms, or her hair is concealing her face, pay attention to which way her chair angles, and which way her face is pointing.
If you are in lunch and she stares at you from time to time maybe smiling from here to there, she is probably into you.
Check to see if she's flirting.
Note!,
Tease her a little, but not too much.
Get to know her very well then ask her out but don't say, "Do you like me?",
Help her out and do stuff with her!,
She stares at you.
If you like her, but you're not sure if she likes you back, go to one of her best friends and have them ask her who she likes.