
Start by looking at pictures.
Start by first looking at the overall condition and body of the animal, before closing in and doing a close study of the bull or cow, from head to tail to feet.
The overall body conformation of a bull and a cow should be deep with plenty of capacity.
A beef animal should be moderately trim in its underline and brisket to prevent excessive waste.
The Topline.
Shoulders.
The Heart-girth.
Rump characteristics: The rump of an animal should be deep, wide, long and level in its top.
Flank conformation.
The Forehead: The forehead (from the poll to just above the eyes) in a bull should be broad and wide, but not so much so that it makes him look like he has a "pallet head," or a forehead that is flat and bony without much characteristic as far as masculinity is concerned.
In cows and heifers (and even in steers), head characteristics should be the opposite of a bull's.
The Eyes: Funny though it seems, eye structure in cattle is quite important, especially in areas where tall plants, dust, and other foreign objects can easily enter the eye and cause such problems as pink eye or cancer eye.
The Jaw: A bovine's jaw should be evenly set, neither undershot nor overshot.
Teeth: Teeth impact production because they are needed to graze and break down foodstuffs into smaller particles, and must be in good condition to do so.
Neck conformation in bulls is very important.
Neck conformation in cows draws a line between too long and too short.
Scrotal conformation in bulls: The scrotum of a bull should look foot-ball shaped, and for most yearlings, scrotal circumference should range from 35" to 40", depending on the breed.
Teat and udder conformation in cows: A cow should have an udder with uniform quarters and small teats.
Poor udder conformation in your beef or dairy herd will reduce udder longevity of your cattle.
Legs should be squarely set under each of the four corners of the animal and be reasonably, naturally straight.
Front leg conformation.
Hind leg conformation: The common issues that come with bad conformation of the hind legs always tends to start at the hocks and the pasterns.
Toes: Toe structure of the bovine will also have an impact on mobility and stance.