
Understand the difference between shyness and low self-esteem.Plenty of shy people are very comfortable and happy with themselves, and have healthy levels of self-confidence.
Be upfront about your shyness from the beginning.
Relax, and don't rush a young relationship.Because you know that you struggle with shyness, you might put extra pressure on yourself to make a relationship work immediately, but relationships don't work like that even for extroverted people.
Get to know your boyfriend or girlfriend through technology.
Practice for a new relationship by going on practice dates.If you find yourself seizing up with shyness when you’re out on dates with your new boyfriend or girlfriend, try going through the steps of a date without the pressure of being around someone who makes you nervous because of their newness.
Plan out important conversations ahead of time.When getting to know someone, you sometimes have to have very personal conversations that can be difficult.
Have topics ready for regular small-talk.
Make saying “yes” a habit.Your initial response to proposed activities may be “no” — not because you don’t want to do something with your partner, but because you need a few moments to feel comfortable enough to say yes.
Go on low-pressure outings.
Breathe deeply to relax.Shyness often comes with a lot of anxiety about being in social situations, and in a relationship, you’re expected to be very open and intimate with your partner.
Make eye contact with your partner.Shy people often avoid eye contact, and while that’s perfectly acceptable and maybe even desirable if you have a shy partner, an extroverted partner will likely feel like you’re being aloof or distant.
Keep your arms and legs uncrossed.When you cross your arms over your chest, or cross your legs, your body is communicating to those around you that you are trying to make yourself smaller and close yourself off.
Mirror your partner’s facial expressions in conversation.
Give active nonverbal feedback when listening.Even if you’re not terribly verbal, there are many nonverbal ways in which you can interact with your partner, giving the impression that they’re having more of a give and take with you than they actually are.
Lean forward.Shy people often want to create more physical space between themselves and others, but in a relationship, your partner might feel as though you’re being aloof and not engaging with them.