
Purchase your Busch Gardens Williamsburg tickets online (or over the phone) before visiting the park, particularly if you are visiting from outside the US.
Preview the attractions in the park before your visit.Pack water, snacks, money and most importantly your park tickets before you leave for the park that day!,
Decide if you truly want to visit the Busch Gardens Williamsburg.
Drive and park at Busch Gardens Williamsburg.
Enter the park.
Look at the set up of Busch Gardens Williamsburg.
Turn the corner to your left and walk towards either the train station or Skyride.
Take a trip on the Skyride from the England station.
Take a very slow trip along the outer route of the park on the Busch Gardens Train.
Ride Escape from Pompeii, the one and only extreme log flume in this park.
Take in the Sesame Street Forest of Fun set of attractions, if you have kids.
Walk into the Italy section of the park and ride any or all of the three attractions that are available to you.
Ride the swinging ship ride called "The Battering Ram".
Get scrambled on the low-powered scrambler-like flying ride called "The Flying Machine".
Ride the circular magic carpet-like roller coaster ride called "Da Vinci's Cradle".Ride the mad tea party-like attraction called "Turkish Delight" if you like lower-powered rides that still have a bit of flair.Ride the music express ride that Busch Gardens Williamsburg calls "The Trade Winds".
Ride the Roman Rapids ride, Busch Garden's version of a rapid rafting ride.
Ride the Tempesto roller coaster.
Ride the Apollo's Chariot roller coaster if you didn't ride Tempesto.Jump aboard the Busch Gardens train at the Festa train station nearby, and depending on what you did earlier in the day, take a ride aboard or skip it and continue the circular walk of the park towards the Oktoberfest area across the archway bridge past the Il Teatro Di San Marco and Gelato Di San Marco marketplace areas.
Drop in on the freefall ride that Busch Gardens calls Mach Tower.

,
Roller-coast through on Verbolten just after walking through the arch bridge from Italy.
Bump some cars in the bumper cars ride that this park calls it's Der Autobahn ride.
Take a ride on the yo-yo swings ride that the park calls Der Wirbelwind.
Try and eat in the food establishment in Oktoberfest called "Das Festhaus", which loosely translates out to be "the meeting house", but it has both German and American food served Cafeteria style, and lots of tables styled in the theme of a German Oktoberfest location.
Ride the Curse of Darkastle after digesting your food.
Take in Kinder Karussel for the one and only real ride in this area besides the Skyride and Rhine River Cruise.Make your way to the Skyride and take this ride around the park to it's other two locations in England and France.
Ride the Rhine River Cruise boats.
Have your kids climb around in the "Land of the Dragons" play area.
Swing by the Alpengeist inverted roller coaster.
Ride the one and only true log flume in the park called Le Scoot.

,
Board the train from this area of the park towards the back of the marketplace area, if you haven't yet boarded for a trip around the park.Ride Busch Garden's official scrambler ride called Le Catapult which is directly next to the train station to it's left as you come out from the train station.
Watch a showing of All for One at the Royal Palace Theatre.
Ride the Griffon.Ride the Skyride if you haven't already passed through the other areas of the park, including at the Germany and England stations.
Rest for a few moments to observe a moment of pure peace at the Lorikeet Glen.
Learn a little about wolves in the wild in the Wolf Haven and Wolf Valley attractions.
Watch the bald eagles at Eagle Ridge attraction.
Watch a showing of the Castle O'Sullivan play/attraction.
Fly on the Europe in the Air attraction.
Visit with the Clydesdale horses, owls, border collie dogs, and owls and other animals just after you pass over the bridge from Ireland to Scotland.

,
Ride the Loch Ness Monster.