
Confront your friend about the abuse.
Refocus the conversation on them.Abusive friends habitually point out how wrong or inadequate you are.
Be honest about your feelings.
Use humor to cope with your friend’s abuse.Making a joke can make you feel better and might draw your friend’s attention to his or her abusive behavior without the awkward confrontation that might otherwise occur.
Inform your friend of the consequences for serious abuse.If you have a serious, long-term problem with an abusive friend, let them know what you intend to do in order to correct their behavior.
Evaluate the quality of your friendship.Think about the abusive friend’s behavior within a context of your entire friendship.
Set appropriate boundaries.Insist on enforcing healthy boundaries between yourself and your friend.
Reduce the amount of time you spend with your friend.If your friend is regularly abusive, try to limit the time you spend with them.
End the friendship.
Stay calm when dealing with abuse.Just because your friend is being abusive and rotten doesn’t mean you should be, too.
Depersonalize the situation.Depersonalizing the situation means trying to understand what is motivating your friend to act in an abusive way.
Don’t feel as if you deserve abuse from your friend.
Ask yourself if you’re being abused in other ways.
Don’t feel guilty about cutting the friend out of your life.Making healthy choices for yourself means putting what’s right for you ahead of what’s right for your friend.
Don’t remain friends with an abusive friend out of fear.
Keep an eye out for emotional distancing.An abusive friend will make you feel as if you don’t matter or are not important.
Identify narcissism in your friend.Narcissists make everything about them, and care little for you.
Identify controlling behavior.Controlling behavior covers a huge variety of situations, but essentially refers to behavior intended to make you act in a particular way.
Look for shaming behavior from your friend.Shaming refers to the act of making you feel bad about who you are, what you like to do, or what you believe.
Recognize when spending time with your friend leaves you feeling empty.Spending time with good friends leaves us feeling happy, upbeat, refreshed, and optimistic.