
Learn the ten basic, five-card hands of poker: (1) "Royal flush" or called "Ace-high straight flush"), (2) "Straight flush", (3) "Four of a kind", (4) "Full house", (5) "Flush", (6) "Straight", (7) "Three of a kind", (8) "Two pair", (9) "Pair", (10) "High card" (called a nothing-/or junk-hand, no name).
See the subsections .
Find kinds of poker information just above the "Tips" section near the bottom of the article the following:

See the various kinds of poker "Variations" - names and a description of each of some differing kinds of poker.
Choose a miniature of a help sheet and click.
Learn the basics of poker using 5-card hands.
Print or write out a ranking of the poker hands and memorize the hands: Review often, deal yourself several hands to compare values, or play to apply the things you memorized, starting in a penny-ante, friendly game for fun is safer.
Chip in.
Choose the first dealer.
Look at your cards.
Keep your usual "poker face"; don't show a response: Or instead, be active, shifty, unpredictable, saying what others may have, changing faces, smiling, laughing/entertaining continually, acting differently from minute to minute.
Take turns shuffling and dealing, unless the house furnishes the dealer.
Draw cards.
Go through another round of betting after the draw.
Showdown: Expose your cards only when there is no more reason to bet.
Understand the basics of draw poker first.
Deal.
Begin betting the first round.
See the "flop" after each player makes a pre-flop check or bet -- possibly betting to force each following player to call or fold.
See the "turn" (4th card).
See the 5th card.
Know your starting hands.
Know when to hold and when to fold.
Understand the psychology.
Think on your feet.
Plan your bankroll accordingly.
Royal Flush (10, Jack, Queen, King and Ace, all of the same suit) - Most valued because it's most surprising when received.
Straight Flush (five cards in numerical order, all of the same suit) - Can't contain a King as high card and a Two as the low number card in the same hand (e.g.
Four of a Kind (four cards of the same number and any other card) - ties are broken by the higher four cards of a kind.

,
Full House (a three card set with the same number and two card pair with the same number) - ties are broken by the highest value card in the three of a kind.

,
Flush (all five cards from the same suit) - Numbers and order don't matter except the best high card wins, when someone else also has a flush with a lesser high card.

,
Straight - (all five cards in numerical order) - Suit doesn't matter.
Three of a Kind (three cards with same number, two other random cards) - but If the other two cards are a "pair", it's a full house (see above).

,
Two Pair (two different pairs plus a random card) -- ties are broken with the highest 5th card.

,
One Pair (two cards with the same number, the rest of the cards are random).

,
Below are the variations.