
Look for temper tantrums.Children who are under a lot of stress and pressure may act out by yelling, crying, and making a scene.
Look for compulsive exercise.
Keep an eye out for weight gain.If your child is overweight, they might be eating in order to cope with the excessive pressure you’re placing on them.
Look for mental health issues.Children who are under too much pressure often experience anxiety and depression.
Listen to your child.Children may tell you directly that you’ve put them under excessive pressure.
Ask yourself if you’re putting excess pressure on your kid.Reflect on your child’s behavior.
Apologize for putting excessive pressure on your kid.If you continue to pretend that the amount of pressure you’re putting on your kid is good for them, they won’t appreciate it.
Change your tone.It’s okay to want your kids to succeed – in fact, that’s what every parent wants.
Think about why you’re putting so much pressure on your child.Many people who were raised by parents who put too much pressure on them go on to place too much pressure on their own kids.
Allow failure.If you’re in the habit of putting too much pressure on your child, the person who will probably be most horrified by the prospect of your child failing at anything is you.
Teach your child to rethink pressure.When your child thinks of tests, baseball games, and other high-pressure situations as “do-or-die” moments, they might not do their best.
Remind your child that there’s always another day.To avoid putting too much pressure on your kid, it’s important to always provide an appropriate context for high-pressure situations your child might be in.
Highlight your child’s successes.Instead of putting too much pressure on your child before a big event, help them remember other occasions when they were challenged but successfully overcame a tough, high-pressure situation.
Provide unstructured time for you child.It is important that your child is afforded the opportunity to explore, play, and use their imagination.