
Understand that EC2 is not the cheapest.
Understand some of the key advantages of EC2 and of Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) solutions in general.A flexible, scalable infrastructure that you can adapt to your changing needs.
Keep in mind that you don't have to use EC2 just because you're using some other Amazon services.
Understand the different aspects of an Amazon instance type's description.A typical name has three parts: a letter describing the instance class (R, M, C, T, G, D, I, P, X), a number describing the generation (1, 2, 3, 4, 5), and a string describing the size within that instance class and generation (small, medium, large, xlarge, 2xlarge, 4xlarge, 8xlarge, 10xlarge, 16xlarge, 32xlarge).
Understand the ratios of the three main instance classes.
Understand the maximum available capacities of the instances, so as to identify the limits of vertical scaling.
Understand additional constraints you may face based on the operating system and AMI you intend to use.
Run your application on some instances to see how it uses various resources (computing, memory, local storage, network) and what the bottlenecks are.
Identify the key variables affecting the resource usage of your applications.
Identify interactions and trade-offs between resource usage in your code.
If you are considering running identical applications on multiple instances (typical for front-ends serving high loads), explore the trade-offs between horizontal scaling (using more instances) and vertical scaling (using larger instances).
Understand the concept of an AWS region.
Understand the concept of an AWS availability zone (AZ).The AZs are subdivisions within AWS regions.
Understand the two different kinds of disk storage Amazon offers for its EC2 instances.Elastic Block Storage (EBS) is a high-throughput storage volume replicated across the availability zone.
Understand the cost implications of using EBS-backed instances.The cost of an EBS instance depends on its size as specified when creating the volume.
Understand how EBS snapshots work.
On-demand instances are the most expensive but the easiest to get started with.On-demand instances can be spun up at any time, and are charged based on the instance type and the amount of time the instance is running.
Spot instances are substantially cheaper than on-demand instances.
Reservations can be made for either 1 or 3 years, with three types of payment plans: no upfront, partial upfront, and all upfront.Some aspects of a reservation cannot be changed after the reservation is made.
Avoid the snowflake server mentality.Invest extra time and effort into writing scripts (using tools such as Ansible or Chef) that allow you to, with a single command, deploy new instances for your applications.If your application is handling variable loads from real-time web traffic, put the instances behind an elastic load balancer (ELB).
Investigate autoscaling and use it if possible.
Maintain all critical long-lived data outside of individual EC2 instances (with the potential exception of special instances dedicated for data stores, which you periodically back up).
Your scripts should be able to handle updates to your application smoothly.Set alarms for the load balancers to be able to detect too few healthy hosts, unusual traffic patterns, or a large number of errors.
Spread instances across multiple availability zones within a region for more robustness against damage to a particular availability zone.Use Route 53 health checks and failovers for cross-region redundancy in live serving.
Understand that instances are charged by the hour.
In the Amazon EC2 console ("Reports" section), you can get reports on the Amazon EC2 costs (this does not include some data transfer costs) and the reserved instance utilization.
Your AWS account has access to the billing data that provides the full breakdown of costs.
At any time, you can download detailed breakdown by hour and service type from your AWS account.
Put all the factors together and start deciding.
Ideally, aim to have all your instances either reserved or spot instances.
Keep monitoring costs over and above all the other things you are monitoring.