
Watch for symptoms that may be indicative of aortic regurgitation.Aortic regurgitation occurs when the heart valve leading from the left ventricle of your heart to the aorta becomes weakened.
See your doctor if you believe you may be experiencing aortic regurgitation.If you are experiencing the signs and symptoms above, it is best to book an appointment with your family doctor sooner rather than later — or, in certain cases, seek emergency care.
Have your doctor check your pulse.If you suspect that you may have aortic regurgitation, your doctor will look for what is called a "bounding pulse.",
Measure your blood pressure.If you have aortic regurgitation, your systolic blood pressure will likely be normal but your diastolic blood pressure (the pressure when your heart relaxes) will likely be lower than normal.
Have your doctor listen to your heart with a stethoscope.If you have aortic regurgitation, your doctor will likely be able to pick up a heart murmur when she listens to your heart with a stethoscope.
Obtain an electrocardiogram.
Receive an echocardiogram to evaluate your aortic valve.An echocardiogram is a type of ultrasound that specifically looks at your heart.
Opt for an exercise stress test.An exercise stress test normally consists of going on a treadmill and gradually increasing the intensity (beginning at a slow walk and proceeding to a jog or a run) until you are too fatigued to continue, or until your heart begins to show signs of stress as per the measuring devices you will be hooked up to.
Ask your doctor for a cardiac MRI.A cardiac MRI is another way for doctors to visualize your heart and to see abnormalities.
Have a chest x-ray to evaluate for fluid in the lungs and/or an enlarged heart.Another test that can help in the diagnosis of aortic regurgitation is a chest x-ray.
Obtain a referral for cardiac catheterization.If the above tests are inconclusive as to the degree of aortic regurgitation you are experiencing, your doctor may order a more invasive test called cardiac catheterization.
Opt for "watchful waiting" and regular echocardiograms.If your aortic regurgitation is not too severe, your doctor or cardiologist may recommend that you do not opt for any procedures (such as surgery), but rather, that you continue to monitor your aortic valve over time and treat it surgically only if that becomes necessary.
Take medications to prevent worsening of your symptoms.If your blood pressure is high, your doctor will recommend that you take blood pressure medications to lower it back into the normal range.
Receive surgery to "cure" aortic regurgitation.The one and only definitive "cure" for aortic regurgitation is to have it treated surgically.