
Consider how you would like your patio to look.
Use paving and walling products to create many possibilities for laying out an attractive feature patio or a paved area.

,
Be prepared to give it a go yourself.
Prepare.
If a patio is to be on raised ground or to be on more than one level, mark the intended location of walling and steps.

,
Consider the color scheme of the paving.
Work out electrical and drainage needs.
Lay slabs so as to create patterns.
Once you have made your plans, transfer them into a full size layout on the actual site.
Be aware of the two essential rules that must be followed if a patio is being laid alongside a house wall:


The top of the paving slabs must be at least 150mm/5.9 inches below the house damp proof course.
Get the right tools.
Budget.
Add mortar plasticizer (240-669) to mortar mixes for wall construction.
Unless you are building onto existing concrete or firm paving stones, you must provide adequate foundations for the wall.
Dig a trench.
Continue laying the first course with 9mm/0.35 inches mortar joints between each block.
To cut a block, chip a groove all round the block with a bolster chisel and club hammer along the intended cutting line.
On a wall with a corner (return), start the second course with one block laid at 90° to the first course.
Note that some types of slab - especially the thinner and more fragile ones - must only be laid on a solid bed of mortar 25mm thick with mortar filled joints of 8 - 10mm/0.31 - 0.39 inches (using the 'dob & dab' or other method, could cause some to break in use).

,
If your slabs are suitable (strong enough), the ground is firm, even when wet (for example as on chalk) and you only intend to lay slabs, you need do no more than remove any turf and a little topsoil.
In a situation where the subsoil is less stable, such as with clay or peat, you need to dig much deeper in order to put in a stabilizing 100mm/3.93 inch thick layer of very well compacted hardcore before laying the sand bed.
Prepare in advance.
After preparing the base the paving can be laid onto the semi dry cement / sand mix mentioned previously.
Depending on the type of ground, as shown previously, dig out enough to ensure that the area is deep enough to cope with the desired thickness of hardcore (it's always better to have too much than too little), 25mm/0.98 inches of mortar plus the slab thickness, leaving the top of the slabs just below turf level.

,
Before laying any slabs, lay and level a 25mm/0.98 inch layer of mortar onto the compacted hardcore (but only as much as can be laid in one go) remembering the mortar will set faster in warm weather.
To ensure that an even slope is maintained, use 6mm/0.23 inch thick pieces of ply or some similar material.
Ensure that all the slabs are well bedded down onto the cement/sand and do not pivot on an uneven base.
If slabs need to be cut by hand, mark a pencil line all round.
Do not walk on the set slabs for at least 24 hours.
On sloping sites, or where patios have been built on two or more levels, you may well need to construct steps.
If there is to be more than one change in level, i.e. two or three steps up, the second riser blocks will be bedded onto the paving slab surface at the rear.
Ensure that you have planning permission.
Choose one of three options when installing replacement or new driveways in the front garden area.
Construct an attractive, long lasting, and hard wearing driveway using Stamford paving blocks measuring 100 x 200 x 50mm/3.9 x 7.8 x 1.9 inches.
Choose patterns according to use.
Make a striking off board.
If constructing a driveway, set the blocks on sand and hardcore so you will need to dig out ground to a depth of about 200mm/7.8 inches.
When the concrete has set, infill with hardcore and compact to a depth of about 100mm/3.9 inches using your striking-off board to check this.
Starting at one end of the drive, lay sand across the full width but only extend about 3 metres/9.8 feet along the drive, or over an area you can reasonably expect to complete in a working period.
Once you have laid the blocks over the first 1.5 metres/4.9 feet of the drive - not the complete sanded area - use the plate vibrator to bed them down into the sand.
Consider pavers that don't require planning permission.
Realize the problems that can occur.
Drill a hole in the centre of the block, or largest piece, using a hammer drill and masonry bit.
If the above method does not work, or the block is too tight, use a large masonry bit, and drill as many holes as possible across the block.
Growing trees roots are usually the cause of raised block pavers and slabs.
Remove any mortar (if used) from around the slab by using a narrow bladed masonry chisel (if the mortar is in poor condition, an old strong screwdriver may do).
Be aware that sunken whole slabs are a little more difficult.
Remove any old mortar from the hole and the edges.
Add five blobs one to each corner and one to the centre (the slab will need to be raised just enough above the others to allow tamping down and levelling), apply a thin strip of mortar around the edges of the hole.
Carefully place one end of the slab into position, making sure the surrounding gaps are equal, then lower.
Cut the cord or banding level with the slab and push down below the surface (plastic banding is sharp so be careful).