
Watch for speech problems that get worse over time.Progressive aphasia is when you lose your skills and abilities associated with language and communication over time, in a way that exceeds a natural age-related decline.
Recognize signs of the "agrammatic/nonfluent" subtype of PPA.This subtype of progressive aphasia presents primarily with speech difficulties.
Look out for signs of the "logopenic" subtype of PPA.This subtype of progressive aphasia mainly affects word finding.
Watch for signs of the "semantic" subtype of PPA.The primary problem in the semantic subtype of progressive aphasia is losing word comprehension.
Consider whether you are in the population most frequently affected by PPA.PPA most commonly affects individuals between the ages of 40 and 80 years old, with the peak incidence occurring around 60 years old.
Take note of how it started.Progressive aphasia presents as a gradual decline in your language and communication abilities.
Keep a diary of how your symptoms are changing (or worsening) with time.
Receive a detailed clinical exam.The first step when you see a medical professional will be to receive a detailed clinical exam.
Rule out other conditions that may present similarly.The reason that your doctor will ask so many questions and perform such a detailed exam is mainly to rule out the possibility of other conditions.
Have a head CT or MRI.As part of the diagnostic process, you will most likely receive either a head CT scan or an MRI.
See a speech therapist.Because the impact on language and communication varies from person to person (depending upon which area of the brain has been damaged), the approach of the speech therapist will vary depending upon your specific presentation.
Learn new communication strategies.Given that the pathophysiology of progressive aphasia is not reversible, and will only continue to progress with time, it is important to explore alternate modes of communication that can help you to cope.
Connect with an Aphasia Community Group.One of the key elements for people as their progressive aphasia worsens is finding a community of people who understand the condition, and who can be there as an emotional and social support network.
Carry information about your diagnosis with you.As their condition progresses, some people carry ID cards with them and/or papers with information about their diagnosis that they can give to others.