
Download the app.
Open Snapchat.
Tap Sign Up.
Create a Snapchat account.
Import friends from your device's contact list (optional).
Add friends.
Add friends by username.
Add people by Snapcode.
Switch between the front and back camera.
Tap the circle to take a photo Snap.
Press and hold the circle to record a video Snap.
Tap X to discard a Snap.
Tap the timer button to limit the duration of photo Snaps.
Tap anywhere on the camera screen.
Swipe left to preview Lenses effects.
Take or record a Snap with your chosen effect.
Open the Lenses feature.
Select the "Face Swap" Lens.
Take off your glasses.
Align your two faces with the dotted smiley outlines.
Take a Snap.
Save your Snap.
Tap the Sticker button to see stickers, emojis and Bitmojis.
Swipe left and right on the Sticker screen to see different categories.
Tap a sticker to add it to your Snap.
Use two fingers to adjust the size and rotation of sticker.
Make a sticker.
Tap T to add a caption.
Tap T again to increase the size of the text and change the color.
Use two fingers to adjust the size and rotation of the text.
Tap the pencil button to draw on your Snap.
Swipe left and right to view the available filters.
Tap the "Save" button to save the Snap to your phone (optional).
Tap the "Send" button in the lower-right corner when you're happy with your Snap.
Tap the recipients' display names.
Tap "My Story" to add your Snap to your Story.
Tap "Send".
Tap the Chat button to see Snaps you received.
Tap the Snap you want to view.
Press and hold a Snap again to use your single-use Replay.
Swipe left on the camera screen to open Stories.
Tap a Story to view all of the Snaps in the last 24 hours.
Reply to a specific Snap in a Story.
Tap My Story to view your own Story.
Tap the ^ button at the bottom of your Story to see details.
Tap the Chat button.
Tap the "New Chat" button in the upper-right corner.
Tap the user you want to chat with.
Enter text using the keyboard.
Use the buttons above the keyboard to enhance your messages.