
Determine the length of your mast as well as its diameter along the length.
Select a light, straight-grained wood for your mast.
Cut your wood to be a little wider, thicker, and longer than your mast.
Use a jointer or a hand plane to plane one face of your mast perfectly flat.

,
Mark the center line of your mast on this planed face.
Use a long, straight strip of wood (called a batten) the length of your mast or longer, to connect these marks and create a center line along the face of the mast.
Mark the width of your mast along its length, using your center line to make sure that your widths are centered.
Use your batten to connect the width marks along the edges of your mast on the planed face.
Cut the outline of your mast with the planed face down using a band saw, circular saw, etc.
Plane each of your sawn faces flat and smooth, making sure that they are perpendicular to the first flattened face.
Repeat the steps for marking the center line and mast outlines on the two faces you just planed.
Plane the sides that you just cut flat and perpendicular to their adjacent sides.
Use a compass to draw a series of circles along your mast that just touch the edges of the mast.
Draw two lines that just touch the edges of your circle, and that are perpendicular to the edge of your mast.
Put the point of your compass in the center of the circle, and open up the compass until the pencil point just touches the corner of the box (i.e. the point where the line goes off the edge of the mast).
Make the edge marks for the 8-sided mast.
Go to the opposite side of the box and do this again, now going up the line.
Check to make sure that your tic marks are accurate by taking your combination square and checking that a 45 degree angle taken from the side of the mast and going through this marked point on the box line will just touch the circle.
Mark the edges of the 16-sided mast.
Repeat this around the circumference of the mast using at least one side of your box.

,
Continue your lines past the box side to where they intersect.
Connect the tic marks you've made for the 8-sided mast along the length of your mast with a batten, and draw the resulting lines.
Do the same again with the 16-sided lines.
Clamp your mast down using angled clamping blocks to hold it steady.

,
Start planing the first corner.

,
Plane down until you just connect the 8-sided edge marks on each of the adjoining faces.
Take your compass and measure the width of the 16-sided face.

,
Transfer that width over to the planed side by putting the point of the compass on the existing 16-sided line and making a tic mark on the newly planed face.
Place a batten connecting your marks and draw a line along it.
Plane the corners down to these lines to get to a 16-sided mast.
Plane off the tips of this zig-zag line, leaving just small line segments behind.
Suspend the mast so that you can both hold it steady and rotate it as you work.
Sand away!,
Varnish, starting with a slightly thinned varnish mixture to soak in.