
Wash your hands well prior to makeup use.One of the keys to preventing infections correlated with makeup use is to wash your hands well before applying makeup.
Sanitize your makeup brushes.You will most likely be using brushes to apply your foundation etc.
Thoroughly clean other makeup equipment.In addition to keeping your makeup brushes clean, you can sanitize powder palettes.
Clean the surrounding area.Since you will most likely be placing your makeup brushes and tools on the counter in between use, it is important that this area be clean as well in order to minimize your risk of infection.
Store your cosmetics at the right temperature.It is important to store your cosmetics in a place where they will not get too hot — specifically, where they can remain at a temperature below 85°F (29°C).
Change your cosmetics every few months.Few people are aware of the risk of microbial (bacterial or viral) contamination of their cosmetics, which only gets worse with time.
Consider using disposable brushes.Another option to avoid the the cross-contamination of the bacteria from your skin and eyelashes getting into your makeup containers is to use disposable brushes while applying makeup.
Do not share your cosmetics.One of the key ways to prevent infections caused by makeup is to not share your cosmetics with others (and to not borrow a friend's cosmetics).
Know when to see a doctor.It is important to see your doctor if you notice any potential signs of an infection that may be related to your makeup use.
Seek prompt medical attention.If you suspect that you have either an eye infection or a skin infection caused by makeup use, see your doctor sooner rather than later.
Consider eye drops for an eye infection.The exact treatment that your doctor recommends will depend upon your symptoms, as well as your specific diagnosis.
Ask about treatment for a skin infection.If you have developed a skin reaction (which may be allergic or infectious), or an unusual lesion on your skin that you think may be related to makeup use, ask your doctor for help with diagnosis and treatment options.