
Plane the rough sawn timber square.
When the glue is dry, rip the boards down to width on a table saw.
Cut the sides, top and bottom components to length ready for jointing.
After cutting the components to length, cut the stopped housings on the shelf sides to hold the shelves.
Use a mitre saw with trenching facility to cut the shoulders on the end of the shelves to fit the 12mm (0.4 of an inch) housings.

,
Dry assemble the shelves and sides to check the fit.
If the shelves are slightly too tight, use a shoulder plane or paring chisel to trim them to a nice snug fit.
Work out the order in which the sides will be joined.
Work out how many tails you want and what the width of each tail should be.
Use a marking gauge to mark the thickness of your material.
Mark out the tails using either a sliding bevel or a marking template.
Mark a pencil line across the end grain with a square as a visual guide to keep your saw cut square when cutting.

,
Cut the tails with a dovetail or gents saw.
Remove waste with a coping saw.

,
Cut away the two external pin areas and pare these back with a sharp chisel.

,
Lay the work face down on a piece of scrap material and chisel down to the line created with the marking gauge.
If your initial saw cuts aren't as accurate as you'd like, place the workpiece in the vice and carefully pair them with a sharp chisel.

,
Mark your pins.
Use a small square to mark vertical lines with a pencil to correspond with the tail outlines on the end grain to serve as vertical guides when cutting the waste later.

,
Use your pre-set marking gauge to scribe the areas to be cut to create the pins.
Cut out the waste as before with a dovetail and a coping saw.

,
Chisel to the scribe line as accurately as you can.
Conceal your fixings, if desired.
Consider softening the shelf fronts.
Prior to gluing the shelves, make sure that all components are clean.
Limit your use of glue.
Use clamps while gluing.
Give the glue enough time to cure before cleaning up.

,
Spend a bit of time getting the surface right before applying any finish.

,
Seal the shelves if desired.
Finished.