
Navigate to http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html.
Click the “Download” button beneath “JDK.” This will open a new page containing several download options.
Scroll to the latest version of Java SE Development Kit.
Click “Accept License Agreement.” Before you can click the download link, you must accept the license agreement.
Click the download link next to your operating system.
Install the JDK on your computer.
Double-click the installer file you downloaded.
Double-click the package icon to start the installer.
Click “Continue” on the Introduction window.
Click “Install.” You will see a window that says “Installer is trying to install new software.
Sign in as an administrator.
Click “Install Software.” This may take a few minutes, depending on the speed of your computer.
Open the “Applications” folder on your Mac.
Open the “Utilities” folder.
Double-click the “Terminal” app.
Type javac -version and press ⏎ Return.
Double-click the JDK installer file.
Allow the app to make changes to your computer.
Click “Next” to continue.
Click “Next” to accept the default installation settings.
Click “Close” when the installation is complete.
Press ⊞ Win+X to launch the Power User menu.
Click “System.” A screen with your system specs will appear.
Click the “Advanced System Settings” link.
Navigate to the “Advanced” tab.
Click the “Environment Variables” button.
Double-click the "Path" variable under “System Variables.” Now you’ll add a new variable.
Click “New” if you’re using Windows 10.
Set the variable in earlier versions of Windows.
Click “OK” until you’ve closed all open windows.
Press ⊞ Win+R to launch the Run box.
Type cmd and press ↵ Enter.
Type path and press ↵ Enter.
Type java –version and press ↵ Enter.
Open a terminal window.
Navigate to the directory where you'd like to install the JDK.
Move the *.tar.gz file to your current directory.
Unzip and install the JDK.
Delete the *.tar.gz file.
Become root.
Remove earlier JDK package installations.
Install the new package.
Delete the .rpm file.