
Find the sum of the "basic numbers" substituted for Day, Month, Year, Remainder left after dividing Century by 4, and Leap Year.
Divide the sum by 7.
In this ever-changing world, only the Sun and the Moon and a few Planets can be said to have some permanency.
The rotation of the Earth around the Sun, the dawn of the morning, the coming of the night, were the first measurements of time.
The year was further divided into months.
The time taken by the earth to complete one revolution round the Sun, in our current Unit, is odd and not totally accurate, thus arose the leap year every 4th year.
Now dividing 365 days by 12 leaves a balance and due to this, there was unevenness in the number of days in a month and again the number of weeks does not divide the month and the year fully and as such it is difficult to say exactly what day of the week will fall in a particular month.
To construct such a calendar, look back upon how we defined our months and years.
52x7 = 364.
The 29th day in February changes our calculations, from the month of March onwards in the leap year and permanently for all other years.
Starting from the 1st January of any one year and knowing the day in that month, we can thus prepare the frame work of our perpetual calendar without going into further details.
For January, given the number 1, for February the number 4 (in view of what is explained earlier in clue (1)), March number 4, April number 0 (instead of 7 as division by 7 leaves remainder zero and we have 7 days in a week), May number 2, and so on.

,
For working out the day of the week for any date we will have to add the base numbers for –) as given in the WORKING CHART given below, except that when the total is more than 6 we will have to divide by 7 and take the remainder:

,
First Basic Number is given, thereafter Date, Month Calender years are to be taken for that number, then months, then days and then Remainder after dividing by 4 - called Remainder.------

,
Please Note ---- Century counts from 1.
You may need to add basic numbers for Date, Months, Years, Century.

