
Flipperness isn't a music subculture like punk or grunge, but there are definitely some flipper staples.
Never be drinking or smoking; it's really bad for you, and a true flipper should always have it together.
Consider going vegetarian and eventually vegan.
Begin studying martial arts.
When you're not watching Spongebob, watch the Discovery or Science channel.

,
Never watch MTV, E!, or read UsWeekly or buy/watch ANYTHING that has to do with stupid celebrities.
Always show up to class on time.
A good flipper always does their homework.
Buy a pack of multi-colored sharpies and draw on everything you own with them.
Never drink soda, coffee, or of course, alcohol.
Learn to rollerblade if you don't know how.
Be a pacifist because nobody should like killing.

,
Protest, protest, protest!,
Develop a dislike for the expectation that you will someday reproduce.
Exercise!,
Control your eating habits.
If you need glasses, wear them.
Straighten your hair and have layers put in.
Don't go tanning and only use gradual self-tanners.
Learn to play acoustic guitar and piano.
Clip your nails short and keep them clean; this is necessary for guitar lessons!,
Don't over-tweeze your eyebrows; flippers hate looking overdone and scary like Pam Anderson.
Flippers love being outside, especially while reading, singing, drawing, or playing guitar.
Never scream or freak out when you see a mouse, spider, bug, etc.

,
The way most girls behave should annoy you.
Wear studded belts, loose jeans, or cargo pants.

,
Only wear converse-style tennis shoes (in the summer, flip flops are good too,) preferably in bright colors.

,
Wear cute, fitted t-shirts that you either decorated yourself or bought at Walmart for $5.
Flippers love hats, such as bucket hats, berets, and military caps.
Wear lots of colored jelly bracelets and cuffs.
Be polite, but slightly reserved in public.
When people you don't know tease you, ignore them completely.

,
Don't talk incessantly.
Always appear calm and collected.
When it comes to guys, don't act like they impress you.
Being a flipper is about independence and freedom.
Read the classics.