
Get a head start on your lab report as soon as possible.
Write your report with the primary goal of readability.
Determine your present audience, and potential future ones.
Outline the general structure of your lab report.
Break sections of your report into subsections, if necessary.
Familiarize yourself with the top-down approach.
Write your initial outline in top-down style.
Remember figures, tables, and graphs at the paragraph-level.You will need to weave these into the text of your report in a way that is logical and intuitive.
Use organizational tools, like highlighters and sticky notes.
Craft your title and abstract carefully.
Refine your abstract down to crucial information.
Devise your introduction.
Model your intro off your top-down outline.
Include substantiation and critical details in your intro.The intricacies of the lab experiment you are writing about in your report may not be clear to every reader.
Provide a background section, if necessary.In the event that vital background information needs to be expressed to your readers early in the paper, this information can be expanded into its own sub-section.
Write your section on materials and methods.
Consider a section interpreting related work.
Differentiate your report from past and/or related work, if necessary.
Use a table or graph to clearly indicate differences.
State your results in your data section..
Summarize your main points for data heavy results sections.
Define your data and its purpose impartially and clearly.
Interpret your data and results in the discussion section.
Address any other weaknesses in your discussion section.Even if your natural inclination is to gloss over weak points in your lab report, this can be harmful to your credibility.
Add a separate conclusion section for longer reports.
Make your conclusion count.
List all sources used in your lab report.
Respect the process.
Seek review from peers involved in different projects.
Write a critique checklist.
Accept feedback from your peers politely.
Critique structure, clarity, and logic, not the writer.