
Set aside a list of invitees for the sleepover.
Determine if your invited guest is a true friend or not.
Create and send the invitation to your sleepover invitee guest list.
Write a personal note to your invitees which can be included in the invite.
** If your siblings are still only babies or are still infants, let your guests know that your siblings are only babies, and that though they can expect crying and other issues that comes out of a kid that small, they shouldn't expect other creepy crawlies guests to come into the sleepover sleeping room when the guest isn't closely watching (sleeping) during the night.
Look for clues of how you could attempt to form the sleepover.
Plan to use several layers of protection on the bed you will be using during the sleepover.
Wear a disposable bedwetting diaper during every night on each successive night leading up to the sleepover.
Make sure that the idea of wearing a disposable bedwetting diaper isn't a foreign idea to you and that you can expect to wear one seamlessly from the evening till the next morning each of the days leading up to and including the sleepover night.
Address diaper-changes during the night, if a bedwetting accident occurs.
Protect your bed with the use of a disposable bed mat and other water-absorbent cover in case an accident causes a mess-up each night.
Wear clothing that is at least two to three sizes larger than what you usually wear to bed, when you wear your protective clothing.
Trash all used disposable garments as you spot them being wet or soiled at night.
Avoid feeling ashamed if you find that you wet your bed.
Remind yourself daily to change into your bedwetting diaper.
Maintain a diaper stack or two of a minimum of five diapers apiece.
Ask your parents how you should handle accidents during the night, should you end up having an accident with the diaper on.
Put away almost all bedwetting diapers except for a lingering diaper or two.
Clean out all trash cans in your room where the sleepover will be taking place.
Stash a diaper and in one of the bathroom cabinets.
Prepare your bed the same way as you have been since the beginning.
Change into your bedwetting diaper and nightwear prior to greeting your friends at the door.
Don't use the diaper until the sleeping portion of the sleepover begins.
Talk with your friends about your secret if the friend is a true friend.
Greet your friends like any other sleepover.
Refrain from showing off that you wear diapers to bed as much as you can possibly tolerate.
Take any medications within a half hour or so of the sleepover, if your doctor or pediatrician has required you to take a medication for your bedwetting.
Handle your bedwetting in a responsible manner.
Prepare yourself with a quick way out of accidents, should an accident occur during the night.
Continue to wear the same diaper you had on the previous night to assure the invitee that nothing about you has changed.
Have your parents help awaken you close to the time that your invitee is going to be picked up.
Let your friend leave.
Close the door to your house, as you wait for your guest's parents car to pull away from the curb or driveway.

,
Take out and change all your clothes for the new day - including your diaper if you changed into a new one for those few minutes while you waited for your invitee(s) to leave.
Change any wet bedwash that should be on the bed from an accident that night.