
Determine the correct proportions.
Understand that it will need to be strong, heavy and durable.
Make a level surface.
Now lay your first sheet of mid grade plywood or MDF on top of the 2x4's.
Start laying the inside grid of squares.
Build your outside box frame, use the 1x2 lumber, pre-drill holes or use a brad nailer and glue.
Cut your 1x2 lumber to the proper lengths for the grid, use long pieces the length of the bench and short 1x2's across the width.

,
Place the short strips at their pre-determined location of the grid against the outside frame along the length of the bench.
With the short strips in place for the first row, you can now add a long strip in the same manner, glue and screws in pre-drilled holes or brad nails.
You can now place more short strips into place as you did the first row of short strips, glue and screw or brad nail them in place making sure they are square to the long strip.
Now you can place another long strip in the same manner as the last long strip and then add the short strips as the previous row with glue screws and or brad nails.
Let the glue dry overnight before doing anything else.
When the glue has dried overnight, get help and turn the bottom and grid over placing it back on the 2x4s you used to make a nice flat level surface.
When the brad nailing on the bottom is complete, you can again turn over the bottom, again check for flatness and square.
Once the new torsion box is together, you can trim the outside edges of the top and bottom plywood or MDF flush with the outside edges of the outside 1x2 frame.

,
The outside trim is a hardwood of 1" to 1-1/2' thick and the width of the thickness of the torsion box.
After rounding over edges and sanding the entire top, you can put a nice oil finish on the torsion box to keep it looking good and prevent any other problems from water or whatever may come in contact with it.
You should build a nice strong 2x frame with 3 layers of 2x6 material for legs.
The frame for your top can be very inexpensive and still look like a million dollars.
Trim the outside edge of the 2x6 and 2x8's, cut the rounded edge off, about 1/4"-5/16" will square the edges.

,
Cut the 2x6's to length for the legs, this is up to you as to how high you want your bench top.
Cut one of the 3 2x6 lamination shorter by the width of the bottom trimmed 2x6 foot and the top trimmed 2x8 rail.

,
With the 2x6's cut to length and trimmed to width, glue and screw them together making sure you leave the right amount of space for the foot at the bottom and right amount at the top for the top rail.
Cut 2 trimmed 2x6's the length of the width of the base frame plus about 3" over on each side of the legs.
Glue and lag screw the foot (trimmed 2x6) to the legs at the pre-determined end for the 2x6 foot.
The next piece to add is the top rail, this should be just the length of the width of the bottom of your base frame.
Now that the leg assembly is complete, you can attach the long trimmed 2x8 side rails with glue and lag screws.
A stretcher between the foot pieces can be added if wanted.
The base frame can also have a nice oil finish after rounding any edges that are subject to splintering and sanding it all smooth.

,
The top torsion box can be placed on top of the base frame and attached with figure eights or you can install cross pieces about 2x3" at the top rails of the base frame.