
Always start a sentence with a capital letter.
Use capital letters to start proper nouns and titles.
Use capital letters for acronyms.
Use a period (full stop) to end declarative sentences and statements.
Use a question mark to end questions.
Use an exclamation point to end exclamatory sentences.
Use a comma to indicate a break or pause within a sentence.
Use a comma when listing three or more items in a series.
Use a comma to separate two or more adjectives describing a noun.
Use a comma to separate a larger geographical area from a smaller one located within it.
Use a comma to separate an introductory phrase from the rest of the sentence.
Use a comma to separate two independent clauses.
Use a comma when making a direct address.
Use a comma to separate a direct quotation from the sentence introducing it.
Use a semicolon to separate two related but independent clauses.
Use a semicolon to separate a complex series of items.
Use a colon to introduce a list.
Use a colon to introduce a new concept or example.
Use a colon to separate parts of a title.
Use a hyphen when adding a prefix to some words.
Use hyphens when creating compound words from several smaller words.
Use a hyphen when writing numbers out as words.
Use a dash when making a brief interruption within a statement.
Use a hyphen to split a word between two lines.
Use the apostrophe together with the letter s to indicate possession.
Use the apostrophe to combine two words to make a contraction.
Use a single quotation mark within a regular quotation to indicate a quotation within a quotation.
Don't use an apostrophe with an s to make a singular noun into a plural noun.
Use the slash to separate and from or, when appropriate.
Use the slash when quoting lyrics and poetry to denote a line break.
Also use the slash to replace the word and when joining two nouns.
Use the double quotation mark ( " ) to enclose a direct quotation derived from either a spoken or written source.
Use parentheses to clarify.
Use parentheses to denote an afterthought.
Use parentheses for personal comments.
Use brackets to signify an editor's note in a regular piece of writing.
Use braces to denote a numeric set in mathematics.