
A New Resident Welcome Manual would not only help welcome a new resident to the community, but help to orient the new resident and their family to the community, along with educating them to the more important rules and regulations and overall culture of the community.
A New Resident Welcome Manual can be simple or very sophisticated depending on the size and complexity of the community in question.
The following is a suggestion for a Welcome Manual for a medium size community association.

,
In the introduction to the New Resident, you can summarize the community, its size, units, unit types, amenities, and anything else of community interest.
If there is Property Management as part of the community, it is good to discuss this aspect of the community operation.
Outline and review why there are assessments for maintenance, what it covers and how it is payable.
Detail the maintenance responsibilities of the Association and what the unit owner is responsible for.
Define and discuss what common areas of the community are and how they are maintained and used by the residents.
Explain how Architectural Controls are being enforced throughout the community and how and why this is important to the values of the community.
List all of the other Committees within the community, such as Covenants, Fines, Landscape, Maintenance, Security, Pool, Social and Communications.
Additional items that could be included would be utility brochures and public service announcements from local governments, copies of old newsletters, Minutes of past Annual Meetings, helpful telephone numbers of government services and other emergency services, a roster of Board members and Committee members, copies of cable TV channels, website information, maps of the area, and merchant coupons and discounts.

,
Overall, a New Resident Welcome Manual can help to make a new resident feel welcome, bring to their attention the more important rules of the association and how to orient the family in the local community quickly.

