
Preheat your oven to 350°F (177°C) and prepare your baking pans.
Cream the sugar and butter until they turn light and fluffy.
Mix in the eggs one at a time, then set the batter aside.
Mix the cocoa powder and food coloring separately.
Stir the cocoa mixture into the sugar and butter mixture.
Sift the flour and salt together in a separate bowl.
Gradually add the flour mixture and the buttermilk into the sugar and butter mixture.
Stir in the vanilla extract.
Stir together the baking soda and vinegar, then add the mixture into the batter.
Pour the batter into the prepared cake pans, and bake for 25 minutes.
Remove the cakes from the oven, and let them cool completely.
Put the marshmallow crème into a large microwave-safe bowl.
Heat the marshmallow crème in the microwave on high for 15 to 20 seconds.
Add in the butter, then beat it until everything is smooth.
Add the confectioners' sugar and salt.
Add the marshmallow crème into a microwave-safe bowl.
Heat the marshmallow crème until it softens.
Beat the cream cheese and butter together until they are evenly combined, then add them to the marshmallow crème.In a separate bowl, beat together the cream cheese and butter until they are evenly combined.
Fold the cream cheese mixture into the marshmallow crème using a rubber spatula.Keep folding until the ingredients are just mixed, making sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often.
Stir in the confectioners' sugar gradually.
Fold in the nuts and shredded coconut, if desired.
Trim the tops off of the cake layers, if necessary.
Place a cake layer, top-side-down on a serving plate.
Use an offset spatula to spread about ⅓ cup (75 grams) of frosting on top of the cake layer.If your cake is very dry, gently brush it with a pastry brush to knock off any loose crumbs first.
Place the second layer on top, and spread another ⅓ cup (75 grams) of frosting.
Place the third, and final layer, on top.
Prepare the crumb coat by diluting ⅓ to ½ cup (75 to 115 grams) of icing with some milk.
Apply two layers of the diluted icing, letting each layer set before adding the next.
Use an offset spatula to coat the cake with the rest of the icing.
Serve the cake.