
Your goal is to live a meaningful, productive and happy life.
The most stringent requirement is to stay with the medications unless they are so intolerable your condition deteriorates.
Protect your job.
If you become unemployed, you may still have rights with your employer.
If you are on disability, your new job is to get well.
If you are unemployed, volunteer.
As a volunteer, show up regularly and put your heart into your work.
Your illness is a part of you but does not define you.
Have faith in your ability to recover.
Your chances of permanent recovery are greatly enhanced if you can keep your mood swings small.
The brain re-creates itself constantly.
Educate yourself about the illness.
Attend a support group in your area with like-minded people.
DBSAlliance.org lists many support groups for mood disorders in the US, and Mood disorders.on.ca lists groups in Ontario, Canada.
Well managed support groups will set appropriate goals designed to control your moods.
Choose an excellent psychiatrist.
Be aware that some psychiatrists are research doctors.
While seeing a psychiatrist, see a therapist (social worker, psychologist) as well.
Not all support groups are created equal.
To choose a good psychiatrist, get a referral from a psychologist or other relevant health care professional.
Establish your emergency crisis plan early in your treatment.
Figure out the different ways to reach your doctor.
Some medications can be adjusted based on your experience and judgement.
If your psychiatrist hasn't found the right medication, ask more questions, especially from other patients.
Keep your psychiatrist's name and number on a small piece of paper in your wallet, or one of their business cards.
During sessions, be prepared.
Tell the psychiatrist everything you think is important for her/him to know about you.
Keep a folder at home with the above info.
Crisis Plan.
If you're feeling suicidal, call your local suicide hotline or 911.
You must get regular lab tests if you're on certain drugs such as lithium, Depakote and Tegretol.
Hot weather may be hazardous to people on lithium, Lamictal and antipsychotics.
For once, read that insert in 4 point font that comes with every medication.
Medicines help approximately 80 percent of all patients.
Research centers work on treatment resistant cases such as the Depression Clinic at University of PA under Jay Amsterdam, MD.

,
A radical new approach is described in "Healing Depression and Bipolar Disorder Without Drugs," by former bipolar sufferer Gracelyn Guyol.
Explore the use of binaural beats, acupuncture, herbal medicine, reiki, books, meditation, and or do something not fun, but intriguing, like a Rubix cube or a puzzle.