
Stimulate the growth of white blood cells in your bone marrow.The first thing you will need to do in order to treat MS via chemotherapy is to stimulate the growth of white blood cells so that a large enough sample can be removed from your body and stored (frozen) for use later on.
Receive chemotherapy for your MS.Chemotherapy is traditionally thought of as a treatment for cancer only; however, it is also effective in destroying white blood cells, and it is a certain lineage of white blood cells (called your T cells) that are responsible for the autoimmune damage in multiple sclerosis.
Continue with regular monitoring following the chemotherapy.Your cell counts will typically return to normal 9-14 days following the treatment.
Have the stem cell transplant.Once your white blood cells have been wiped out with chemotherapy, you are now ready to receive the autologous (meaning using your own cells) stem cell transplant.
Determine whether you are a candidate for chemotherapy.In order to be a candidate to receive chemotherapy treatment for your MS, you need to have a form of MS with a poor prognosis (meaning a poor outlook moving forwards).
Talk to your doctor about how to sign up for an MS clinical trial.
Factor in the risks of MS chemotherapy treatment.Over 90% of people who have received this treatment to date have suffered no serious complications from it.
Learn about the various MS treatment options that are available, apart from chemotherapy.While MS cannot be cured (and medical researchers are still actively looking into the question of how best to treat it), there are several options available to treat and improve symptoms and, in some cases, to actually slow the progression of MS as well.
Consider steroid treatment.Regardless of which type of MS you have, and how early or late it is in the course of your disease, virtually all MS patients are offered steroids as a form of treatment.
Opt for "plasma exchange.
Ask your doctor about treatments for symptom management.Common symptoms of MS include fatigue, trouble with bladder control, muscle stiffness and/or spasms, sensations of numbness and/or tingling, vision problems, trouble walking, problems with balance and/or coordination, and decreased cognitive function (problems with thinking, learning, and planning).
Try specific "disease-modifying" therapies.As previously mentioned, the only way to actually alter (i.e.