
If you have completed the workbook from the article Acquire an N Helix with Spheroids Image, you may SAVE AS that workbook under a new appropriate name having to do with the above conical helix image I'm teaching you to create, and then modify it according to the steps below as read MODIFIED or NEW.
MODIFIED: Set Your Preferences: Open Preferences in the Excel menu and follow the directions below for each tab/icon.It helps placing the cursor at cell A14 and doing Freeze Panes.
Create some Defined Name Variables.
Select cells A1:E2 and Insert Names Create in Top Row.
Create some more Defined Name Variables.Select cells A3:H4 and Insert Names Create in Top Row.
MODIFIED  Input the formulas and values to row 4.
Select cells A2:G2 and Format Cells Border thick line Top Bottom Sides Center and format number with 4 decimal places.
Put the entire sheet in font Lucida Fax size 9 by selecting the very top left cell between A and 1 for column and row and thus select the entire worksheet.
MODIFIED: Create the Column Headings.
Input the t and c Formulas.
Do Edit Go To cell range A7:A2886 and input "=(A6+(-Tip*2)/(AjRows))" into cell A7, then do Edit Fill Down.
Input the (Adjusted) Cosine and Sine formulas.
MODIFIED: Input the Main X and Main Y Formulas.
MODIFIED: Input the Second X and Second Y Formulas.
Input the LOOKER table.
 : Input the (original) LOOKER2 vlookup table.
MODIFIED: Enter the CONICAL HELIX DATA table constants and formulas.
It is also a good idea to do Insert Comment a copy of all the formulas so far into the cells so there are always the original formulas should they ever be overwritten.
MODIFIED; Have a blank worksheet ready to copy a new chart into and expand and format it at will.Shrink the chart on the original Data worksheet and put it at the bottom of the data.
Copy the Data worksheet cell range A1:W13 and paste it to the Saves worksheet at bottom, then paste it again underneath that, only this time, do Paste Special Values.
Finished!!,
Make use of helper articles when proceeding through this tutorial:

See the article How to Create a Spirallic Spin Particle Path or Necklace Form or Spherical Border for a list of articles related to Excel, Geometric and/or Trigonometric Art, Charting/Diagramming and Algebraic Formulation.