
Praise your child for good behavior.Shaping your child’s behavior in a positive way should be your first line of defense against bad behavior.
Utilize time-out.While the actual concept behind time-out is not really going to sink in for a toddler, time-out at this age can be useful for separating the child from the situation he or she is in.
Be consistent with your discipline.Because your child is young, your toddler will not understand most rules and demands.
Explain your rules with simple language.Do not give long explanations as to why a rule exists.
Set clear rules.
Be consistent when applying your rules.
Be patient when explaining your rules.Kids two and up can understand simple reasoning as long as you explain your rules in a way that he or she understands.
Be firm with your child.
Don’t discipline every atypical behavior.
Express empathy and love.When you begin to discipline your toddler, always emphasize that you’re acting out of love.
Create a distraction for your children.
Try a time-out.A time out consists of forcing the child to sit in a certain place for a given amount of time, generally one minute for every age of life.
Remove your child’s privileges.For instance, if your young child constantly and deliberately breaks toys, you might take away all remaining (unbroken) toys for a period of time.
Reward good behavior.Whether your child is very young or already a teenager, rewarding good behavior is a must.
Help your child understand natural consequences.
Be reasonable when disciplining your child.It is important to be reasonable when you respond to your child's behavior.
Create a schedule.
Maintain a strong bond with your child.
Be reasonable when setting rules.It is important to understand that 8 to 12 year olds are changing and becoming more independent.
Ensure the punishment is appropriate.If you take away a book that your child has no interest in, you haven’t really punished your child at all.
Stay calm.Don’t yell at your child or say things that will humiliate, embarrass, or cause your child to react negatively.
Reward good behavior.If you see your tween child doing something kind or proactive -- for instance, picking up his or her things when they were not asked to, or getting his/her homework done without your urging, a reward is an appropriate response.
Don’t protect your child from natural consequences.Natural consequences are those which are produced as a direct result of an individual’s actions.
Help your child learn self-discipline.
Encourage your child to reflect on his or her mistakes.Good discipline involves not just punishing or demonstrating how your child’s actions have brought about certain consequences, but showing your tween the possibility of other courses he or she could have taken and might take in the future.
Include teens in the rule-making process.
Let your teen know what your zero-tolerance policies are.
Set a schedule for your teen.
Remind your teenager of natural consequences.Your child should, by the teenage years, understand natural consequences.
Take away privileges.
Discuss issues with your teen.