
Realize that you have a copyright automatically.
Understand your “bundle of rights.” A copyright is not a single thing.
Know the different rights involved with your copyright.
Register with a licensing agency.
Don't fall for the "Poor Man's Copyright" trick.
Be willing to pay a bit to protect your copyright.
Access the US Copyright Office website.
Choose “New User” to create an account.
Provide your address and telephone number.
Read the warning notice about credit cards.
Decide if you qualify for preregistration.
Log in to eCO to preregister online.
Enter your userid and password.
Select “Preregister a Claim.” On the left side of the next screen, you will see a list of options.
Read the Preregistration Overview.
Identify the type of work that you are preregistering.
Provide the title of the work.
Provide the names of individual songs, if any.
Provide the name of the author.
Identify the “claimant” of the copyright.
List three important dates related to the composition.
Write a brief description of the song you are preregistering.
Certify your claim.
Register your song after completion.
Decide if you wish to register online or by mail.
Access the eCO website to begin your registration.
Enter your userid and password.
Choose “Register a New Claim.” On the left side of the screen, you will see a list of options.
Answer three questions to define your registration.
Select the type of work you are registering.
Provide the title of the work.
Tell whether the song has been published.
Identify the author and claimant of the copyright.
Limit your claim, if appropriate.
Identify contacts for rights and permissions, if you wish.
Name a correspondent for further contact.
Give your address for mailing the copyright certificate.
Request special handling, if applicable.
Certify that the claim is yours.
Review your entire submission.
Pay for your registration.
Submit your song.
Wait to receive your copyright certificate.
Understand your automatic copyright protection.
Mark your work with the recognized symbol for copyright.
Review international copyright treaties.
Review the law of a specific country.