
Although many Cyber Goths are female, this is a unisex style.
Know the difference between Cyber Goth and Raver.
Start by getting into the makeup, do not do anything you do not want to do or you do not like or feel comfortable with, there are no rules, therefore you should feel free to be yourself.
Get some foundation that is a few shades lighter than your regular skin tone.
Choose to wear wacky colored lipsticks, whether it be black, blue or even pink, just wear what you're comfortable with.

,
Eyeliner is okay, you can wear it as you please, and some Cyber Goths choose to wear it heavy.
Sometimes female Cyber Goths shave their eyebrows off and then draw them back on.
In Europe, some females wear brightly colored face gems stuck around the eyes.
Cyber Goth hair is amazing.
Look around online for 'cyberlox' if you're interested, they can be pricey though, but they are a good alternative and they look really good when they're the right ones.
Remember that your hair can be multi colored, black tends to be the popular base color, and most neon colors are good.
Look online for Cyber Goth clothing, it can be almost anything latex, PVC or Lycra.
In England, many Cyber Goths buy colorful tights and fishnets and rip them up to become sleeves, layering different colors on top of each other.
Aviator goggles and cyber goggles are extremely popular, and are usually worn on the head with Cyberlox.
If you're old enough you should visit some Industrial/Cyber Goth clubs, as that's where a lot of the more older Cyber Goth's tend to hang out.
Platform boots and shoes are extremely popular once again, so you should definitely look into buying some of those.
Body modification is another popular interest among Cyber goths, piercings and scarifications.
The music is heavily electronic in nature, covering both alternative electronic genres such as EBM, industrial music, futurepop and power noise and club-oriented dance music styles such as trance and hard dance, and other electronic genres including drum and bass, synthpop, gabber and intelligent dance music.