
Pick a rock.
Determine whether its size is convenient for your purpose.
Wash it with soap and water.
Congratulations!,
Before you do anything else you must name your rock.
Look at your rocks appearance.
If you want a person's name, then you can search "baby names" in Google.
Feed your pet rock!,
Make a potpourri for your rock to smell.
Paint or print a pretty picture.
Play some music.
Make a texture board by gluing pieces of different materials to a piece of cardboard.
Prepare a cup of warm water.You'll want a nice wide bowl.

,
Add some liquid soap.
Use a sponge or a cloth to scrub your pet rock inside with the soap-water mixture, if you can't use any of these use your hands.
Dry your pet rock with a small cloth.
Take a cardboard box and cut a small window in the side with sharp scissors.
Remove the lid and place a small box (e.g.
Create a rug by cutting a piece of fabric or material and gluing it to the bottom of the box.
Make a beanbag couch, either by purchasing a beanbag, or stuffing a small drawstring purse with cotton or crumpled newspaper.

,
Make a litter-box by placing newspaper shreds in a matchbox.
Create a lounge by making a couch-shaped 3D piece of cardboard and placing tiny pillows from a dolls house on it.
Make a dining room by placing a mini potpourri in the corner.
Your rock's favorite color depends on your pet's breed.
Travel with your pet rock!,
Make a little house for traveling by following these steps:


Use a box big enough for your rock.
Cut two opposite flaps on the box.
Make a slit in the folded part of the flap.
Cut out a long piece of cardboard from the leftover flaps and remember to make the width a tad smaller than the slit so it slides in effortlessly.
Shred some newspaper (tearing it up is more fun though) and fill the box halfway.
Always protect your rock when going into dirty or foreign places.
Make a spa day from the below instructions.
Throw a sleepover with your pet rock!,
Have a birthday party!,
Make a home cinema!,
Measure your iPhone/iPod and then cut out a hole in the card the same size as the screen.

,
Ensure the screen is visible and that you are happy with it.
Create a support for your iPhone/iPod on the back of the wall.

,
Cut and glue a piece of card (preferably rectangular) to the back of the support.

,
Slip your phone onto the support.