
There are many different types of hair accessories to help pull your outfit together.
A less maid-like and more casual but still very lolita hair accessory is the hair bow, which can attach either by clips, a hair comb, or a headband.
Old-fashioned hats and miniature versions of regular hats are also common styles but are harder to make at home.
Mini-crowns and tiaras are a must for hime Loli and can also look very good with punk styles.
Possibly the hardest hair accessory to pull off is the bonnet which can easily look too childish.
Lolita jewelry is hard to define because almost anything can coordinate with a lolita outfit - especially old fashioned jewelry or jewelry with loli motifs.
Some more seasonal accessories are scarves, mittens, and muffs.
Lolita jackets can be divided into two major classes by weight.
Some coats also have hoods, and some come with cute animal ears - especially bears and bunnies.
Caplets are essentially small, elegant capes.
Boleros are the cute little shrug-like sweaters that tie in the front that brands like BTSSB put out.
Cardigans are a little more casual but they are good for keeping you warm in only slightly chilly weather and for coordinating with your skirt.
When looking for a lolita blouse, look for something very feminine and a bit old-fashioned.
Avoid more typically masculine features like hardware (buckles, etc.),
Cutsews are perfect for a more casual loli style (though many cutsews can be worn even for formal lolita style).
Bags and Purses are one of the last things people think about when coordinating a lolita outfit, but they really do bring an outfit together.
Lolita purses are very adorable, sometimes they are shaped like hearts or outer lolita motifs, other times they are shaped like everyday purses but trimmed with bows and lace.Bags or totes are typically bigger and floppier, but they are still cute and elegant - they are made of nice fabrics, sometimes patterned, and will often have a lolita print on them such as a scene from Alice in Wonderland.
Parasols can easily be distinguished as very lolita by their frills and old-fashioned appearance.
Skirts are the cornerstone of lolita clothing.
One-pieces are dresses that can be worn by themselves or sometimes with a blouse underneath.
Like one-pieces but without the sleeves, jumper skirts are made to be worn over a blouse but can be worn on their own in warm enough weather.
Waloli outfits are inspired by Japanese clothing.
First of all, the skirt needs to match the print of the fabric, second the shirt or dress must be cut appropriately to accommodate a large skirt underneath.
Aprons aren't just for Alice in Wonderland costumes or french maids anymore, but they still have a bit of a comical.
There are two main types of lolita aprons, those that cover your entire front and those that only cover the skirt.
What gives the lolita skirt it's telltale poof is typically a petticoat, a bell-shaped but lightweight fluffy skirt-like garment you can wear under any skirt or dress.
Lolita stockings aren't exactly underthings, but they're going in this category anyway.
Stockings can be worn two different ways.
The basic lolita shoe is the Mary Jane.Boots are sometimes harder to fit into lolita style (with the exception of punk), but several of the major brands have come out with very cute boots.It is also possible to work in cute sandals with your summer lolita attire.Traditional Japanese wooden shoes or Chinese slipper shoes work for waloli or qiloli, respectively.For punk lolita, there are a lot more options (including clunky boots and even converse) as long as the rest of your outfit is very lolita.