
Find a low fence and place the unicycle parallel to the fence so that you can use it for support as you mount the unicycle.
Position the pedals of the unicycle in a slightly offset, vertical position so that one pedal is in the 4 o'clock position and the other is in the 10 o'clock position, mirroring the hands of a clock.
Tilt the unicycle toward you until the seat of the unicycle rests between your legs.
Continue to squeeze the seat between your thighs and place both of your hands on the fence.
Step on the pedal closest to you in the 4 o'clock position with your dominant foot.
Give yourself a little push with your other foot and sit on the unicycle seat, placing your non-dominant foot on the pedal furthest away in the 10 o'clock position.
Hold on to the handrail and begin to pedal very slowly at first.
Practice mounting and pedaling while holding on to a fence until you feel comfortable balancing on your own.
Put the weight of your body directly over the seat.
Move the unicycle forward by leaning your entire body and the unicycle forward as a single unit.
Sit up straight when riding at a normal speed.
Pedal backwards by sitting up straight with your torso over your seat and pedal the feet in short, 1/4-turn revolutions backwards.
Continue to practice pedaling forward and backward while holding on to a fence or handrail for as long as necessary.
Position your upper body directly over the seat and steady yourself for a turn.
Use your hips to turn the unicycle quickly to the right or to the left.
Pivot sharply on the wheel of the unicycle as you swing your hips by guiding the pedals with your feet.
Hold on to a handrail when attempting to turn for the first few times.
Remember to tilt your body slightly as you turn to encourage motion in the desired direction.
Continue to pedal immediately after you turn.
Position the pedals in the same vertical position you used to mount the unicycle.
Transfer your weight to the foot on the lower pedal.
Hold on to the handrail with one or both hands depending on your comfort level.
When you feel stable, step down with the highest, dominant foot first.
Immediately step your lower foot off as the first foot hits the ground to dismount .