
Study a Cessna 172 aircraft instrument panel.
Familiarize yourself with the six pack.
Test your knowledge of the six pack.
Study the the aircraft controls.
Become familiar with the navigation and communication equipment.
Get someone to show you how to set or change radio frequency in order to communicate with ATC (the airport tower).Ask your pilot for the emergency frequency.
Practice changing frequencies.
Know when not to change frequencies.
Learn in an actual aircraft.
Solidify your understanding of the instrument panel and controls while in the aircraft.
Quiz yourself on each of the instruments.
Target and master each of the instruments and controls:

The airspeed indicator (top left) has arcs colored in green, yellow, white, and red.
Develop the mindset and habit of making only the smallest of corrections.
Learn how to calibrate the heading indicator.
Learn the phases of normal flight:

Straight and level flight
Climb
Descent

,
Work hard to understand straight, level flight.
Understand the mechanics of the climbing phase.
Get a good feel for what transpires during descent phase.
Become intimately familiar with the landing phase.
Practice in a high quality simulator or under the direction of a qualified flight instructor.
Know the appropriate conditions for a straight-in approach.
Plan to be about four miles from the chosen runway at an altitude of 1,000 feet (304.8 m).
Descend toward the 1,000 feet (304.8 m).
Lower the flaps a notch at this point.
Add more pitch down to keep your speed at 75 knots, if necessary.
Stabilize the plane in-line with the runway at four miles out.
Check to ensure the throttle is still at idle.

,
Use the rudder pedals to stay in-line with the runway, not the yoke.
Hold that attitude, and airspeed.
Continue to hold the nose wheel off the runway after the main gear touch down.

,
Apply brakes as soon as the nose wheel touches the runway.
Know how to perform an emergency go-around, if need be.
Apply full power smoothly and increase the pitch (nose-up) to climb.
Re-trim pitch for a climb.
Climb out at 80 knots.
Level off at 1,000 feet (304.8 m).
Make a wide arc.
Attempt the landing all over again.

,
Be alert to the danger.
Understand the nature of the danger.
Refer to the little plane's exact attitude within the "Artificial Horizon" before you attempt any altitude correction.Rely only on the instruments if you have little or no visibility.
Resist the urge to fly by the seat of your pants.
Try to engage the autopilot.