
Think about peace: Realize that, while the Gospel of Jesus teaches peace, He also said, "Blessed are the Peacemakers" (Matthew 5:9b).
Lay your life down to gain peace, as the armies are allowed to risk your lives and to protect your fellows, and thus yourself, and protect (love) your neighbor (at risk to yourself) and their families as necessary: logically even with deadly force (as Christ laid down his life for you).
Obey God: God told the Israelites numerous times to raid enemy cities, destroy them and kill the inhabitants but not to individually enrich yourself by taking personal properties or livestock, etc.
"Be at peace with all people, as much as it depends on you (as much as possible)!",
"Love your enemy..." (Matthew 5:43) also "Turn the other cheek..." (Luke 6:29)Yes, Jesus said those commands and many more.
Explain and proclaim that contrary to popular opinion, God does not change ("He is the same yesterday, today and tomorrow!"),
Realize that while Jesus did not want the church or his apostles and leaders to be warlike, some of Jesus' disciples carried swords:


"When the disciples who were with Jesus saw what was going to happen, they asked, "Shall we use our swords, Lord?",
Follow the spirit of the law of God, and take appropriate actions and join up government and its law, to help to do what is right.
Stand up for rightful war: God does not necessarily hate all war, some being necessary in the world system!,
Support police power.
Support police powers at all levels: Armies, soldiers, sailors and air forces, etc.
Recall that Paul and Silas did not try to escape the Roman jail or law officers, but sang and preached at midnight to the Roman soldiers/jailers and went to the Jailer's house from prison; their wounds were doctored, bathed, and they were fed by the soldier and his family and servants!,
But, "Let the dead bury their dead.",
Remember Jesus himself will come in the end time with "armies" to "wage war" against those who are against God (Revelation 19:11); and "will destroy them with the sword of his mouth.",
Know your home is in Heaven!