
Respect boundaries.
Don't talk about people behind their backs; especially if you have not stated your issue with the person in the first place.
Do not go around poking people constantly.
Do not impose, or appear uninvited.
Do not go through people's stuff.
Mind your own business.
Be humble.
Don’t be someone who always seeks attention, and needs to be the center of attention all the time.

,
Don't frequently correct bad grammar/spelling, speech blunders, or inaccuracies of others because most people don't like being corrected.

,
Don't complain all the time.
Be aware if you are standing in doorways while having a conversation, standing in the middle of an area where people are trying to walk (in stores, malls, or the airport), or if your children are being obnoxious in a public place.
Be polite and hygienic.
Don't overcrowd.
Avoid unnecessary repetition.
Don't copy people.
Don’t send or forward those “Copy and paste” statuses or “forward to ten people” e-mails, or text messages.
Don't argue needlessly.
Conversations are really two-way streets, and communications flow both ways, with two or more people sending and receiving messages.
Don’t mumble.
Making an inside joke or reference with a friend while a second friend is present can make the second friend feel left out, if you do this then you should tell the other friend what you are talking about or try to explain what you mean.
If you’re doing something no one else around you is doing and you know they don't think what you’re doing is a good thing then you need to stop.

,
Don’t ask many basic questions about sports, watch and learn slowly and ask a few questions per game.

,
Don’t act hyper or overly enthusiastic about many things.
If someone wrongs you, forgive them, don’t hold it against them and continue to bring it up just to make them feel bad or get them back.
Don’t pretend you are perfect.
Don’t patronize your friends; don’t ever act condescending or disrespectful to people.

,
Don’t act like the friend’s parent when driving, warning them about obstacles and dangers.
Don’t continually remind someone of something he or she is not able to do.
Don’t stop someone who is telling a story excitedly to point out something they did wrong.
Between friends there is harmless teasing and such, this is very common and acceptable.
A person with absolutely no moral boundaries will repel those around them.
The two worst ways to get on someone’s nerves are to: (a) Act insensitive and therefore hurt their feelings.
Be mindful of how the things you say are perceived by others.