

Use the default P4 Nude Male figure.
Click the double checkmark to add the model to the document window.
When posing a figure, it is best to work from the middle outward (hips to arms to fingers).

To turn off IK, select Figure > Use Inverse Kinematics and make sure the submenus do not have a checkmark next to them.
,
Once you have done this, it is always a good idea to "zero the pose".
Click on the hip.
Select Window > Joint Editor.





Click the "x" (in the right-hand corner) to close the Joint Parameters dialog box.
,
We have found that it is easiest to pose your figure if you have the image readily accessible.

Select File > Import > Background Picture.





Poser provides you with multiple cameras.
Now it is time to start posing!,
Click on the abdomen.

Increase the hunch by selecting the chest.

Our pose looks a little goofy with the guy looking down, so now we need to adjust the neck and head.
Click on the neck.
The head also needs to look up, so click on the head and set the Bend dial to "-33".Change back to the Main Camera using the Camera Controls to see the results of your changes.

Next, work on the left arm.
To move the left forearm into position, select it.

Not too bad.
Select the right forearm.To match the hand to the arm, select the right hand and enter a Side to Side value of "10" and a Bend value of "-16".

Moving on to the legs... Start by selecting the right thigh.
Select the right shin.Tweak the right foot by selecting it and setting the Bend dial to "30".

You need to shape the left leg to finish the body portion of the pose.
Select the left shin and set the Bend dial to "104".
For easier selection, use the Left Camera by selecting it in the Camera Controls.

Essentially, the pose is finished, but because we want a little emotion, we'll want to adjust his facial expression.
Select the head.
To articulate the mouth, use several dials.





To see the final pose, select the Main Camera from the Camera Controls.
If you want to do some touch-up, you can select the hands and use the Grasp dial.