
Wait until after the second battle with Prometheans.
Before going inside, look left of the door for a high ledge.From the computer at the back of the Reactor Room, head up the left ramp to find a platform with 'H 8-93' printed on the side.
Jump up, then onto the pipe with 'Keep Clear' and use this pipe to reach another platform to the right.
Fall in, break the vent, and look in the left corner of the red room.Make sure you have Legendary Difficulty on.
Late in the mission, you'll need to use a Scorpion Tank to save the Cargo Ship and destroy a Phaeton.
Save the Cargo Ship.
Deal with snipers up the hill.
Jump onto the platform next to the forklift and use the boxes to reach the pipes above.
In the area where you gain access to a Gungoose and a Warthog, jump into a vehicle and use it to destroy 5 traffic cones in less than 2 minutes.
Drive off the ramp.
Find the natural arch past the bridge.
Continue up the hill, sticking to the left wall to find a crashed ship.
Find the Grunt Birthday Party Skull.
Find the Fog Skull.
Look out for Vale talking about the pre-Convenant history as you leave the ruins.
Use the cross-beam wedged in the door to jump to a high raised platform.
At the top of the beam, make a sprint jump and air-dash to reach the far platform.Landing on the massive Kraken, go down the ramps to find Banshees parked inside.
Go to the Banshee hangar with the green light ahead and to your right.
Jump out to find the skull on this hidden ledge.
Go to the combat area deep in the level where you have a good view of the massive Guardian in the distance.
Find the metal beam.
Crossing a light-bridge, look for a glowing blue ring structure to the right.
Climb up the tallest formation to find a skull at the top.Halfway through the mission, encounter a Warden in the distance that teleports into the sky.
Look under that spawn area.Move past the Gamma Core to a buried Forerunner pyramid with the massive glowing black ball floating above.
Use it to scale the cliff platforms to the right of the pyramid, leading up and around to a crashed Pelican.