
Don't play mind games.
Be considerate of your Virgo's feelings.
Pay attention to your own personal hygiene and appearance.
When a Virgo feels strongly about something, don't waste your time trying to change his or her mind.
Do not take your Virgo friend or lover for granted!,
Virgos are sensitive creatures who typically hold themselves in high regard because they know they put a great deal of effort into everything they do.
Do not point out Virgos' flaws as they are well aware of them.
Virgos try to see the humor in things and enjoy the lighter side of life.
Virgos make excellent friends and companions, but you must be worthy of their love and respect.
Listen when a Virgo talks to you.
Don't be pompous or stuck up.
Understand that Virgos will listen to your advice, but will most likely do something else nonetheless.
Comprehend that even though they are sensitive, they can be very defensive.
Don't tell them too much information too quickly.
Be careful with what you say.
Virgo women in particular make excellent wives and mothers because of their gentle and loving nature.
Be tactful and diplomatic, because they have NO tolerance for rude, tactless people.
If you're not naturally intelligent, you'd better be gifted with conversing.
If you're a woman, don't act dumb or dress too over the top in front of a Virgo woman - even a Virgo man won't find it appealing.
Virgos will flinch at constructive criticism but humbly accept it.
Virgos are very insightful and intuitive, so always tell the truth and be genuine.
Virgos are very well-mannered and refined so you will have no chance of being friends with one if you are ignorant, obnoxious, vulgar, selfish, rude, a slob or ask for sex on the first date.
Virgos value substance.
More often than not when talking about astrology, Virgos like to be angels over virgins when discussing or even bringing up birth signs.

,
Don't be fooled by the term "Virgin Sign.",
Virgos value fidelity and trust above all in a relationship.
Don't go through their stuff.
Don't try to force Virgos to do anything they hate.
If a Virgo likes you, he or she will let you know.