
Consider tank volume.
Understand fish “personalities.” Like people, fish can, and do, have different personalities.This means that some fish will be a lot more territorial than other fish and that the fish you choose for your female betta community may not make compatible tank-mates.
Learn how to care for your betta fish’s habitat.
Learn how to feed your betta.
Recognize the signs of a healthy betta.
Include at least 3, and more preferably 5-7 female bettas in the tank.Never keep less than 3 females together in a community tank.
Choose dark gravel or a sand substrate to bring out the color on your female bettas.If you want color, choose colored gravel instead; however, neutral-colored gravel mimics the bettas’ natural environment and may help reduce stress.Larger size gravel traps uneaten food.
Find a suitable water filter.
Purchase a water heater for your tank.
Find a suitable aquarium water conditioner.
Add water and allow the tank to cycle for 1 week before introducing fish.Allowing the tank to cycle means allowing it to establish a bacterial bed in the filter.You can also add a biological conditioner to your tank before you add fish.
Purchase fish, and introduce all the girls to the tank at one time, one by one.
Ensure your tank is well-planted.Include plants (live or silk will work), as well as features such as driftwood or caves.This will allow weaker females to feel more secure because it breaks up direct sight lines between them and stronger, more dominant females.Providing enough hiding places is required for a healthy sorority tank of bettas.Each betta should be able to claim their own territory, giving them a place to “patrol” as well as a place to hide.If you are going to choose fake plants, pick silk plants instead of plastic plants.
Observe your tank.
Monitor for aggressive personalities.
Approach communal housing on a case-by-case basis.There is a chance that your community tank may not work out the first time around: you may have one or two fish that do not get along with the rest.