
Check the weather before you go out.
Make sure you have enough clothing to face dropping temperatures.
Be prepared in case of unexpected snowstorms or high winds.
Wear layers.
Wear a wicking fabric close to the skin.
Wear a warm fabric over that.
Wear a weather-appropriate fabric as the top layer.
Examine your clothing for gaps.
Make sure your undershirt is tucked tightly into your pants.

,
Tuck your socks over the bottoms of your pants.

,
Tuck the tops of your mittens over your sleeves.

,
Take extra care to protect your head, hands and feet.
Wear a warm hat with ear flaps.

,
Protect your eyes and nose in very cold temperatures.
Wear mittens instead of gloves; they’re warmer.

,
Wear appropriate footwear and socks.
Bring children inside every hour to warm up.
Seek shelter if you encounter a serious storm or extreme cold.
Change or go in immediately if you get wet.
Check your skin for frostbite every half hour.
Frostnip: This is the earliest stage.
Superficial frostbite: The second stage is characterized by numbness and white or grayish-yellow skin that still feels soft.

,
Deep frostbite: This type of frostbite is very dangerous, and requires immediate medical attention.
Get to a warm place immediately.
Don't attempt to go back outside after warming up.
If you can't find a warm place or are too far away from the closest heated building, seek shelter out of the wind and call for help.

,
Immerse the affected area in warm water.
Have someone not affected by frostbite test the water to make sure it's warm, but not hot.
After about 30 or 40 minutes, full sensation should be regained, and the color should begin returning to normal.
Don’t warm the area using other methods.
Don’t rub the skin, either with your hands or with a towel.

,Don’t use dry heat, since the numb skin will easily burn

,
Call for medical assistance or see a doctor to assess the injuries.Blistering

,Loss of sensation

,Pale or discolored skin

,Discharge from the affected area

,Fever, confusion or dizziness

