
Recognize common signs and symptoms of meningitis.Meningitis frequently begins with flu-like symptoms, and may evolve from there to become more serious.Signs and symptoms to be on the lookout for include:Fever
Nausea and/or vomiting
Severe headache
Unusual sleepiness
Decreased appetite
A skin rash (this is most often a later stage symptom)
Neck stiffness (this is most often a later stage symptom)
Sensitivity to light called "photophobia" (this is most often a later stage symptom);
,
Know how meningitis presents in newborns.Meningitis presents differently in newborns (and children under the age of two) than it does in older children and adults.
Seek immediate medical help when needed.One of the keys to successfully treating meningitis is to diagnose it quickly.
Seek medical evaluation if you have been around someone with meningitis.Another important thing to note is that, if you have been in the presence of someone who has been diagnosed with meningitis, it is important for you to seek medical evaluation as well to make sure that you do not have it.
Go for a blood test.One of the first things your doctor will do if he suspects that you may have meningitis is take a blood test.
Obtain a CT scan of your head.If your doctor suspects that you may have meningitis, you will also be sent for a CT scan of your head.
Receive a lumbar puncture.A lumbar puncture is the one sure way to determine whether or not you have meningitis.
Ask your doctor for antibiotics.If there is a great enough suspicion that you may have bacterial meningitis, your doctor will initiate treatment with broad-spectrum (very generalized) antibiotics, even before definitive test results become available.
Inquire about corticosteroids.Another treatment that may be given in conjunction with antibiotics is corticosteroids.
Receive supportive treatment.For all types of meningitis, supportive treatment is offered in addition to medications to help with your recovery.
Understand that viral meningitis is treated differently.Viral meningitis is much less worrisome than bacterial meningitis, and it is important to note that antibiotics will not be effective in treating viral meningitis (although they may still be offered to prevent what is called "secondary bacterial infection" - when a viral infection turns into a more serious bacterial one).