
Choose what type of EMT you want to be.There are actually two EMT levels in Arizona.
Enroll in an approved EMT course.To find a training course approved in Arizona, check the Arizona Department of Health Services course listings at http://www.azdhs.gov/documents/preparedness/emergency-medical-services-trauma-system/training/courses.pdf.
Complete the course.
Take the National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians test.Once you’ve completed your training course, you’ll be ready to earn your certification from the NREMT.
Register an account with the Arizona Department of Health Services (ADHS).Visit the ADHS web page at https://ems.azdhs.gov/.
Select your role assignment.You’ll technically be an EMCT (Emergency Medical Care Technician).
Enter your name.
Enter your personal information.
Create a password and user name.Your user name should be memorable and unique to you.
Confirm your account.After completing the application, look for an email confirmation.
Log in to your ADHS account.Check your personal information to ensure everything is accurate and up-to-date.
Begin your application.On the left-hand panel, click “Application.” From the drop-down menu, select “Initial Certification.”


If you wish to withdraw your application at any time, log in to your ADHS account, click on the “Application” button on the left-hand panel, and then click “Withdraw Application” when your application comes up.

,
Provide your work eligibility status.The first step in the EMT application is to provide proof that you’re eligible to be legally employed in the U.S. Scan an appropriate document, then click the text reading“Browse” on the “Public Benefits Eligibility” portion of the application.
Submit your personal information.The rest of the application consists of more straightforward questions related to your background, including questions about your criminal history and your educational background.
Check for application approval.After submitting your application for review, you can track its progress by logging into your ADHS account.
Look for openings.
Ace the interview.Emphasize the quality of your education.
Keep up your certification current.You must test for recertification every two years to keep your Arizona Department of Health Services EMT certification.