
Choose the right time of year.
Get the right tools for your soil.
Cut or dig around the hosta plant, starting 10cm/4 inches from the base of a small plant, to 35cm/18 inches for a very large clump.
If you are new at dividing hostas or other perennials, washing the dirt off the clump can be very helpful to see the individual plants and their rhizomes (from where the roots grow).
If possible, particularly if the hosta is not a large clump, separate the individual plants by hand, by gently forcing your thumbs between plant's stems, and easing the stems apart.
If the clump is very large, it may just be easier to use a serrated kitchen knife, to cut through the clump.
Start by spreading the roots so that you determine where you want to cut.
If possible, make the cut about halfway through the crown and then see if you can pull it apart by hand; use the same back and forth pulling motion.
Washing between cuts to remove sand and small rocks can also improve your insight into how the plant's stems are growing, and to see where to cut or pull apart.

,
You can also use the hacksaw to cut through the clump, by turning the clump on its side, but be careful that the saw doesn't get stuck, so prevent that by forcing the plant apart, either with your other hand or perhaps the handle of another garden tool, if the clump is huge and the saw is pretty deep into the clump.

,
Remove some older, larger leaves or cutting the foliage back at the time of dividing will reduce water loss and help to minimize shock.

,
Plant the divided plants.
Do not let the roots dry out too much.
If the plants' roots dry some before you get a chance to replant, soak the plant in a bucket of water for two to twelve hours.
For stem divisions resulting from pulling plants apart and which have a nice balanced root distribution, plant these divisions at their original level, so that the white basal portions of the stems are just under the ground and you cannot see them.
If you had to use the knife or hacksaw to cut the clump, plant these smaller now-divided clumps at the same height as they were growing, or just slightly deeper (1/3cm/1 to 1-1/2 in.
Keep newly divided hostas wet; keep plants from drying out for the first two weeks.

