
Decide if you truly want to visit Disney's California Adventure theme park.
Drive and park at the parking structure nearby to the resort.
Take a tram from the parking structure to the outside of the park, if you have to park and if you don't have the luxury of riding the trolley.

,
Purchase your tickets at the booths outside of the Disney's California Adventure park.

,
Enter through the turnstiles.

,
Look at the set up from the map of Disney's California Adventure theme park.
Walk into the park.
Take the Buena Vista street walkway to the right and notice the waterfall on your right as you turn and walk down the path, well before reaching near the Soarin' exhibit.
Cool off under the fake jet propeller cooling station in front of/near the Soarin' ride, if the day is extremely hot.
Take a ride on Soarin' here.
Take a ride on the Grizzly River Rapids ride, if you like rides that are dedicated to white-water rapids rafting and the thrill that goes along with it.

,
Challenge yourself to a take a walk on the wild side in the Redwood Creek Challenge Trail, if you don't like white-water rapids rides.

,
Turn the corner and continue on the walking path/trail towards the Little Mermaid:Ariel's Undersea Ride attraction at the corner..
Get to know the placement of the seats that are used for World of Color later in the day.
Walk around till you meet up with the Golden Zephyr ride.
Take the easy way out, if you don't want to ride Golden Zephyr and ride the Jumpin' Jellyfish ride instead, if you want to be flown around less or take it even slower than molasses.

,
Take a ride on the Goofy's Sky School ride, if you'd like to ride a ride similar to Gadget's Go Coaster from Disneyland across the alley-way.
Pass underneath the overhang for part of the track of California Screamin.
Test your ferris-wheel styled thrills on the swinging swings of Mickey's Fun Wheel, or if you want the static ones, they have a slightly different entrance around the other side of it, so be careful which ride entrance you are entering through at the main entrance to this ride along the back edge of the California Adventure walking path.

,
Ride the California Screamin' roller coaster (if you love roller coasters).
Test your skills at Toy Story Midway Mania in a shooter-type of game that is sure to thrill everyone in your family.
Ride King Triton's Carousel (sometimes called King Triton's Carousel of the Sea), the only carousel in Disney's California Adventure park.

,
Look at the bridge that you cross over.
Look over to the left just before you cross the bridge.
Follow the signs that lead you to Hollywood Land.
Look for and watch a showing at the Disney Animation studio's Animation Academy.
Look out for the Muppet Vision 3D movie.
Take a peek in at the Monsters, Inc (Mike and Sulley to the Rescue) ride.
Ride the drop-elevator stationed at The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror.It's scary on the ride, and with a mystery drop-pattern that is determined by the computer for every ride (every ride pattern is different), this ride is super scary for some and almost all who visit, but most who ride it do come out laughing at the end.

,
Walk over to the a bug's land section of the park.

,
Get your fill of 3D movies at It's Tough to be a Bug!,
Look for Flik's Fun Fair, and interactive area containing mostly kid-sized rides.
Look out for Look for Mater's Junkyard Jamboree just a short walk into Cars Land (a land nearby "a bugs land") and take a ride on it.
Look around for Radiator Springs Racers.
Look at your times guide for showings of the Pixar Play Parade.
Look for the nighttime spectacular World of Color to appear over the lagoon facing Paradise Pier.