
Consider whether there are there any semi-permanent lodgings on the grounds not owned by the campsite.
Don't make the assumption that if you buy a campsite you will own everything you see.

,
Find out what the terms and conditions are for the owners of those chalets; in short how long are you legally obliged to continue to rent out the space to that particular owner?,
Be open to having such tenants.
Find out whether such chalets have their own toilets and showers, otherwise they may be counted as users of your toilet facilities and therefore limit the number of visitors you can accept for a given star rating.
Be conscious that star ratings vary from country to country, region to region and indeed from camping organisation to organisation.
Be realistic.
Note whether there a swimming pool on the campsite.
Understand what pool ownership involves.
Be pragmatic.
Learn what the local rules or regulations demand.
Find out what your obligations are in terms of simple First Aid and public fire-fighting equipment and training.
Check out what local taxes or fees you may be eligible for.
Consider whether permits have been obtained for the number of spaces or pitches already operated.
If you plan to expand the campsite, talk to the relevant authorities before purchase.
Remember that sewerage does not travel uphill, at least not without specialist sewerage pumps, so you need to consider the existing layout when considering expanding into areas of differing elevations.
Find out who the most important camping bodies and organisations are for the relevant country.
Don't buy a campsite until you have slept in it a few nights - seriously!,
Get chatting to other users of the site.
Be aware of any seasonal issues.
Be aware that one of the primary considerations for anyone thinking of buying a campsite, hotel or other small tourist business is that you must know your market.
Know your target market and what their standards are.
Look around to find out what the main attractions are in the area.
In the initial author's experience, some campsite businesses do very well in areas that seem rather unremarkable.
Never buy a tourist business while only looking at it as a lifestyle business, namely, with a view to your personal lifestyle.
It is usual for small family run campsites to come with a house for the owner to live in.
Another way to summarise what is being said here?,
Get the relevant professional advice to establish the legal boundaries of the campsite.
Consider the road or track leading up to your campsite as your lifeline.
Arrange to talk to a local figure of political authority, such as a mayor, councilor or politician.
Check out the local competition, in particular any sites run by local government, council or authority, as these may have very competitive rates, superior advertising muscle and high standards.

,
Provide food options.
If you are not keen on being responsible for a restaurant yourself, then another option is to buy your campsite within easy reach of existing restaurants and then form a co-operative relationship with these businesses.
Have refrigeration storage options available.
In most cases the revenue generated from campers in tents is much lower than that collected from RV owners (in Europe these are known as campervans) and caravans.
One point to note is that those sleeping in tents often feel very uncomfortable when large vehicles are moving around in their vicinity, especially if they are still asleep in the morning.