
Transfer all your contacts using Nokia PC Suite to your computer/laptop.
Move on to the next step as mentioned below.
Install the file by clicking on it.
Start the back up of your phone book contacts on the computer through the PC Suite software.

,
Connect your Nokia S40 Phone with your computer through any of the three channels: Bluetooth, IrDA or USB cable.
To launch PC Suite


Click on Start, All programs, Nokia PC Suite
Click on the PC Suite icon.
Click on the "Next" button which is on the bottom right corner of the application window.
Close the PC suite application, disconnect your Nokia phone with the computer/laptop and go to the saved directory/folder where the contacts backup has just taken place.

,
Notice that the backup file is in the form of the same vault/safe icon that was in the application and is having a .nbu file extension.
Right click on this .nbu file and rename it as .zip file.
Right click on the newly renamed .zip file and extract/unzip it using any unzip/rar utility such as Winzip or Winrar.

,
Go to the 'Unzipped' folder and open it


You will find another folder inside that parent folder named as : "predefhiddenfolder"

,
Click on this "predefhiddenfolder" to open it.
Open this backup folder by clicking on it.
Find another folder "Contacts" under this 32 folder.
Send these contacts from your computer/laptop to the Android phone by either a USB cable or by Bluetooth.
Copy the contacts folder which is under the 32 folder.
Disconnect the Android phone once again from the computer/laptop for the final steps.

,
Go to the 'Contacts' option in your Android phone.

,
Select the Import/export option from the menu.
Select the option 'Phone storage' if you have saved the contacts folder in the phone memory or else select the SD Card option if you have saved the contacts folder on the external memory card.

,
Click on 'Next' on your Android phone.Click on "Next" button after selecting Phone contact

,
Make a selection here to choose from: import one vCard file, import multiple vCard files, Import all vCard files.
Done.