
Get a one piece snowsuit if your child is going to be exposed to snow and very cold weather.
Choose a one piece snowsuit if you are dressing a baby or a toddler who is not very active yet.
Dress your child in a long sleeve cotton shirt and pants, and then put them in the one piece suit.
Keep in mind it will be difficult to get your child out of a one piece snowsuit.
Get your child a two piece snowsuit if they are going to be playing often in the snow.
Choose a two piece snowsuit if you have an older child who can use the bathroom on their own.
Make sure the layers under the two piece suit are cotton.
Be careful how long your child plays outside in a two piece snowsuit.
Check the label of the snowsuit for the temperature range the material is designed for.
Choose nylon if you’re looking for a waterproof, lightweight, and affordable material.
Keep in mind polyester is only water resistant, not waterproof, and not very breathable.
Look for suits made of Polartec.
Choose flannel if you’re looking for a material that is soft and retains heat.
Choose down if you have an active child in a more humid climate.
Be aware that fleece will keep your child warm but it will cause them to sweat.
Keep in mind taffeta will be more expensive than down.
Look for a snowsuit that is water resistant or even better, waterproof.
Purchase one size up.
Have your child try on a snowsuit before purchasing it.
Look for cuffs on the suit that fit tightly around your child’s ankles and wrists.
Get long underwear for your child made of an absorbent, breathable fabric like cotton.
Put socks on your child before putting on their snowsuit.
Get a close fitting hat that covers your child’s ears.
Make sure you wrap a neck warmer or scarf around your child’s neck.
Get gloves for your toddler and mittens for your baby.
If your child’s snowsuit does not have booties attached, get your child a pair of snow boots.
Go to your local mall or shopping center.
Look online at the selection available at several stores.
Check Ebay for used snowsuits.
Go to second hand stores or thrift shops.
Try to purchase a suit with quality workmanship.
Go for a suit with buttons and zippers that are easy to use.
Check out brands that make good, high quality snowsuits.