
Gather your supplies.
Know what to expect.
Consider bleaching your hair if it is very dark.
Use your fingers to apply some petroleum jelly around your forehead, neck, and ears.
Drape an old towel over your shoulders like a cape.
Put some gloves on your hands so that they don't get stained.
Tear open a packet of Jello and pour the powder into a bowl.
Add just enough hair conditioner to make a smooth, paste-like consistency.
Gather your supplies.
Choose the right strength or volume when buying your bleach kit.
Deep-condition your hair three days before you bleach it.Don't wash your hair just before you bleach your hair.
Consider performing a strand test first.
Put on the gloves and drape the towel across your shoulder.
Prepare the bleach according to the instructions on the package.
Divide your hair into four parts to make it easier to work.
Start bleaching your hair from the back of your head and move your way up towards the top.
Wait 30 minutes, or however long the manufacturer recommends.
Rinse the bleach out and follow up with shampoo and conditioner.
Dry your hair with a towel.
Divide your hair into four sections to make it more manageable.
Undo the bottom left section and apply the dye to it.
Roll the dyed section into a bun and secure it with a hair tie or clip.
Repeat the process for the other three sections.
Put a shower cap over your head.
Leave the shower cap on for at least one hour.
Rinse your hair using lukewarm water after the time is up.
Dry your hair.
Divide your hair into four sections to make it easier to work with.
Undo the bottom left pigtail and start applying the dye.
Twist the dyed hair into a rope.
Wrap a piece of tin foil around the dyed part.
Repeat the process for the other three sections.
Wait at least one hour before moving onto the next step.
Rinse your hair with some lukewarm water once the time is up.
Dry your hair with a hairdryer or a towel.
Make your hair easier to work with by dividing it into four sections.
Undo the bottom left section and start applying the dye.
Wrap a sheet of tin foil around each strand before moving onto the next one.
Repeat the process for the other three sections.
Leave the foil and dye in your hair for at least one hour.
Rinse your hair with lukewarm water.
Dry your hair using a hairdryer or a towel.