
Make a rectangle measuring three rod lengths by two rod lengths.
Use the blue connectors to close up the four corners of the rectangle.

,
Connect five purple rods, using two silver/white connectors on top and two snowflakes on the bottom.
Attach three blue rods to the snowflakes.
Repeat the process to make a second standing base.
Connect the first standing base structure to the bottom rectangular base.
Connect the other standing base in the same manner, on the opposite side.
Assemble the K'NEX pieces needed.
Get one black connector, four blue rods and the four longer red rods you just attached together.
Use two white tubes and insert them opposite to each other in the red slots.
Use the dark green connector to two attach green rods to the dark green connector.

,
Connect two red connectors to each end of the green rods.
Use the bigger dark grey connector and two green rods with the red connectors attached to the ends, put together in the same ways as the previous step's forms.
Use a silver connector and two gray rods to connect the two rods to the silver connector at the opposite ends.
Connect the silver attachments with the dark green attachment and the dark grey attachment.
Go back and retrieve the inner wheel star piece that you made earlier.
Check the shape.
Assemble the pieces needed for the spinner.
Insert the purple connector to the blue rod at the end of the purple piece.
Attach the yellow connector piece to the small black rod.
At the opposite end of the blue rod, insert three beige rotational connectors.

,
Insert the blue rod through the middle of the yellow connector.
Slide another beige connector through the blue rod.
Slide one of the wheels through the blue rod of the spinner mechanism.Hold the first wheel in place with a beige rotational connector.
After sliding the wheel and holding it in place, slide in four tubes.Slide the second wheel through the blue rod.Slide another yellow connector with the red rods attached at the ends through the blue rod.
Use the dark green hinge to hold everything in place.
Assemble the K'NEX pieces needed.
Insert two orange connectors through the gray rod.
Place the yellow brick on top of half of the red brick.
Make seven more of these seats.

,
Affix the seats.
Connect the remaining seven seats in the same way.
Attach the entire wheel to the base that was made at the beginning.