
Determine whether you’re at risk.
Learn the risk factors for women.
Take note of common misconceptions about risk factors.
Look for the symptoms of an inguinal hernia.Inguinal hernias present as a bulge in the groin that gets worse when straining.
Get a physical examination from a doctor.To diagnose a hernia, the doctor will first look for a bulging area about the size of a golf ball in the groin, next to the hip bone.
Allow the doctor to examine the hernia through the scrotal sac.With male patients, the doctor may try to feel the hernia from below to confirm its presence.
Have an ultrasound done if necessary.In the majority of cases, the doctor will be able to diagnose a hernia through a simple physical exam.
Discuss your options with your doctor.
Learn what happens during an open hernia surgery.The vast majority of hernia surgeries are open surgeries.
Consider getting laparoscopic surgery.Only about 10% of all hernia surgeries are done laparoscopically.
Discuss which surgery is best for you with your doctor.Open surgeries are more common, and surgeons may be more comfortable with them.
Prepare for your surgery.Make sure the doctors have an updated list of all drugs (both prescription and over-the-counter) and supplements you're taking.
Stay in the hospital for monitoring, if necessary.If you had a complicated hernia or surgery, the hospital may want to keep you behind for a few days after surgery.
Rest and care for yourself during the recovery period.It will likely take about four to six weeks to recover from an open hernia surgery.
Take a light walk the day of your surgery.Although you’ve just had surgery, it's important to get up and moving as soon as you feel ready.
Limit intense physical exertion during the recovery period.
Ease back into a normal diet.There are technically no restrictions on diet after hernia surgery.However, some patients feel nauseous for a few days after surgery.
Care for your surgical incisions.In both types of surgery, your incision will be covered in surgical dressing or steri-strips.
Keep a post-operative appointment with the surgeon.
Take stool softeners.During the procedure, the surgeon uses an anesthetic that paralyzes the bowel.
Contact the doctor if you observe signs of complication.