
Draw a diagram, to scale if possible, of your lawn and garden areas you wish to irrigate.
Divide the areas into rectangles (if possible) of about 1200 square feet each.
Chose the appropriate sprinkler heads to cover your zone, using pop-up impulse or gear driven heads for wide grassy areas, shrub heads or bubblers for shrubs and flowers, and fixed pop-up heads for locations adjoining buildings or paved areas like driveways and streets.

,
Mark the location of each head in accordance with the spraying distance of the heads you choose.
Count the number of heads you use on a zone, and add the gallon per minute volume for each one.
Draw the main line from the location where your plan to install your control valves, time (if automatically operated), and backflow preventer.

,
Draw branch lines from the main line to each head.
Use this layout to mark the locations for your pipe ditches and heads, and flag them using markers, survey flags, or ribbons stuck to the ground with large nails.
Dig your ditches.
Spread your pipe out along your ditches, along with "tees", "elbows", and bushings for reducing pipe sizes and threading on the sprinkler heads.
Install your "risers" where each sprinkler head will be located, making sure the terminal fitting is the correct thread size for the head.

,
Tie the main line to the manifold at the timer or control valves, with the appropriate valve for the type of control you are using.

,
Tie the water supply line into the manifold on the supply side.
Turn the control valve on that supplies your zone, and allow it to flush the pipes of any debris or dirt which has gotten into them.
Install your sprinkler heads.
Turn your zone valve back on, and observe the spray coverage and direction of each head.
Walk the length of your ditches to check for water leaks, and when you are satisfied there are none, turn the valve off and backfill your ditches, packing the soil in firmly.

,
Replace the sod you removed and saved at the beginning of your ditch digging operation, and rake the left over roots, rocks, etc.
Go on to your next zone, if you have successfully completed your first one.

