
Understand faith.
Be in direct contact with the highest authority who surprisingly said, "Whatever you do to the least of my children you do to me.",
Show a wanderer/stranger the way off of the shadowy, crowded expanse, as that stranger is on the broad open way to destruction.
Realize that you have opportunities to clearly warn and save the wanderers so that you may "all fly away," so be the "heroic witness".
Think of the supernatural quality of existence in and through the Master of the Way the one who in a supernatural way bears all your weaknesses and trespasses: "For there are three that bear record in Heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit: and these three are one.
Hone your talents to as sharp an edge as possible, and put your talent to work for God--to their best uses.
Dig up your buried ambitions, abilities and talents, but be humble and confident.
Accept the freely offered approval at the super level: "For the authorities are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad.
Put on the whole armor of your profession.
Prepare to make your testimony of the facts or events.

,
Testify of what you know, understand and have experienced.
Testify means give or be "witness" as:attestation of a fact or event: testimony

one that gives evidence; specifically: one who testifies in a cause or before a judicial tribunal

one asked to be present at a transaction so as to be able to testify to its having taken place

one who has personal knowledge of something
a: something serving as evidence or proof: sign
b: public affirmation by word or example of usually religious faith or conviction "the heroic witness..."

,
Don't forget to smile and have fun with your conversation, testimony and witnessing!

,
Start by walking boldly, not unlike sauntering across the room and say meekly, "Hello.",
Look around observing the matrix (visual parameters), the setting, of your view.
Derive a compliment from an honest impression and explain why you say that.
Tell why you said that nice remark: A sincere compliment has to be explained to get someone to warm up to you.
Ask some interesting questions!,
Deal with and accept any conversation-starters he or she might offer; take something he or she has said and run with it.
Look your friend (person you are meeting) in the eye (like one eye then the other, or look at the face area like reading lips), it brings out trust -- but don't stare.

,
Use the person's name a couple times during the conversation; it will help you remember the name.
Ask, "Would you like to experience the miracle of receiving the Holy spirit just like the disciples in the Bible?