
Spend as long as possible in Space Paranoids and Pride Lands.
Level up all your forms.
Obtain the following abilities:


Offense (BLUE) - All except Guard, Counterattack, and Explosion
Growth (GOLD) - High Jump (Valor), Quick Run (Wisdom), Aerial Dodge (Master), Glide (Final)
Support (GREEN) - Scan, Two Combo and Air Combo Up, Combo and Air Combo Boost, Second Chance, Once More, Leaf Bracer (for healing when under attack), Two MP Rage, Berserk Charge (optional)
(If you do not have all of these abilities, you have to get up in a higher level.
Equip all your Elixirs and High-Potions.

,
Equip armor and accessories, taking care to select pieces that give as much defense as possible.

,
Put the following spells and items into your customize menu:


Reflect, Reflera, or Reflega
Cure, Cura, or Curaga
Elixir
High Potion
For your weapon if you don't have ultima use Decisive pumpkin, if you don't have that try Oblivion or Sleeping lion.

,
Approach Sephiroth and press .
Use the reaction command to block Sephiroth's attack.
Immediately select Limit then execute Trinity.
Once the attack is over, attack and use either Upper Slash or Finishing Leap to send him in the air, then keep on with your attack, adding a couple Horizontal Slashes along the way.

,
After you use the finishing attack, both you and Sephiroth will drop to the ground, in which he will do either one or two things.
At anytime after knocking out about 5 bars, Sepiroth will use Heartless Angel.
After Heartless Angel, he will become more of a threat, running instead of just standing there and gawking or walking around.
When you get him down to about 4-5 bars of life, He will teleport and turn into his final form, where he is at his strongest and will use a meteor spell to try to kill you.
The last pinch of life that Sephiroth has will only diminish via a Finishing move.
After using "Heartless Angel", Sephiroth is actually at his most vulnerable.
Next, counter immediately.
After you've pummeled him a bit, stop your onslaught.
Note that if you continue to attack Sephiroth in berserk mode for a very long time, eventually the computer will automatically warp him away so he can attack again.
This method requires attentiveness to the action command and really good timing, but the results are brilliant, mostly because with a little practice, the whole sequence becomes predictable and easy to use to your advantage.