
Get plenty of rest.
Stay hydrated.As with any acute infection, your body loses water as it works to fight it off; therefore, it is key to drink plenty of fluids.
Use over-the-counter medications as needed.Examples include Dextromethorphan and Guaifenesin.These can be purchased over-the-counter at your local drugstore or pharmacy.
Try lozenges.Sucking on lozenges can help to alleviate a cough — particularly a cough that is dry and tickling in nature.
Seek emergency medical help if your cough is severe.
Ensure that your vital signs are stabilized.If it is an emergency situation, and you are in distress because of your cough (which may be compromising your ability to breathe), the doctor will work to stabilize you before proceeding with further treatment.
Tell your doctor about how the cough began.Once you are stable enough to answer questions and to engage in conversation with your doctor, he will want to elicit the history of your cough.
Describe the characteristics of your cough.Your doctor will also inquire into the characteristics of your cough.
Watch for any other signs and symptoms.It is key to discuss any other symptoms that you have noticed alongside your cough.
Share your medical health history.Finally, as your doctor works to diagnose the cause of your cough, it is key that he is aware of your medical history and any other health conditions that you may have.
Ask your doctor for a physical exam.In addition to evaluating your vital signs (and assessing whether or not you could benefit from immediate help such as supplemental oxygen), your doctor will also listen to your chest with a stethoscope.
Receive a chest x-ray.A chest x-ray is another highly beneficial investigative tool when it comes to determining the cause of your acute cough.
Have an ECG (electrocardiogram), if needed.
Talk your doctor about a CT scan.
Get a sputum sample taken.Given that the most common cause of an acute cough is an infection, your doctor may collect a sample of your sputum for analysis in the lab.
Opt for spirometry.
Receive breathing support as needed.If your cough is causing respiratory distress (significant trouble breathing), you may need oxygen supplementation.
Take antibiotics if you have an infection.If you have an infection, such as acute bronchitis or pneumonia, you may benefit from antibiotics.
Ask your doctor for blood thinners if you have a blood clot in your lung (a pulmonary embolism).If you are diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism as the source of your acute cough, you will be given blood thinners — at first intravenously, and then orally — for treatment.
Take medications to treat heart failure, if you have it.If decompensated heart failure is the cause of your acute cough (as it can lead to a sudden buildup of fluid in the lungs, called pulmonary oedema, which causes a wet and productive cough), your doctor will treat this accordingly.
Increase your dose of inhaled medications if you have a COPD exacerbation.If you have a COPD exacerbation, you will likely need increased amounts of inhaled bronchodilator medication (such as Ventolin) and inhaled corticosteroids (such as Flovent).
Treat other causes of an acute cough based on the underlying cause.Clearly, the treatment plan for an acute cough depends entirely on the underlying cause of the cough.