
Get to know your professor or teacher.
Form or join a study group.
Read the chapters.
Answer the study questions.
Review diagrams, pictures, and tables.
Ask permission to tape the lectures.
Access old tests or study guides.
Visit online help resources.
Begin with the most basic of structures.
Grasp the concept of an atom.
Comprehend the atomic framework of an element.
Understand more about the nucleus.
Calculate the number of neutrons found in the nucleus.
Figure out the number of electrons.
Look at the periodic table.
Interpret the periodic table.
Balance a chemical equation.
Think about the equations differently.
Add more detail to your balanced equations.
Identify changes that occur in a chemical reaction.
Recognize the types of reactions.
Use the resources provided.
Think about chemical reactions logically.
Know the sequence for basic math calculations.
Be comfortable rounding very large numbers.
Understand absolute value.
Be familiar with the accepted units of measure.
Practice converting from one scale of measure to another.
Take the time to practice.
Know how to calculate concentrations.
Practice with nutrition labels on food products.
Know how to use Avogadro’s number.
Think about carrots.
Concentrate on understanding Molarity.
Convert equations to their empirical formula.
Know what is included in a molecular formula.
Consider chemistry mathematics as stoichiometry.
Ask for additional examples.
Recognize Lewis diagrams.
Know what the octet rule means.
Draw a Lewis diagram.
Understand the arrangement of electrons as they bond elements together.
Learn how compounds are named.
Take the section on nomenclature seriously.
Know what superscript and subscript numbers indicate.
Recognize how atoms react with each other.
Recognize that subscripts can indicate the formula for a stable charge to a compound.
Identify anions and cations from their position on the periodic table.
Learn to recognize the more common anions and cations.
Try not to become overwhelmed.
Make regular appointments with your teacher or professor.
Think of chemistry as learning a new language.