
Open up your search for diapers to be more than those meant for babies.
Look for cloth diapers for the child.
Don't single out the Huggies' "Goodnites" disposable bedwetting diapers, once you first hear this product's name and think "these diapers are only for those older/younger than my kid!".
Avoid making the child feel embarrassed to talk to you about their diapers, their changing times or anything about their life that is devoted to the use of their diapers.
Don't make the child feel too embarrassed when you need to talk to them about having them wear a diaper again.
Express to them the reasons why wearing a diaper is such a great thing to be used to at their age as well as expressing to them why wearing diapers isn't so great at their slightly older age.
Explain to the child why you feel they should wear the diaper.
Make sure that the child can accept the diapers as part of their new routine.
Infer to your child that they can still come up to you and have you help them with their diaper-changing needs, and they can trust you to help them to get the job done in a timely manner.
Explain to them that no matter what happens with you when you first put them into their first diaper, that doing so won't make you stop loving them or make you love them even more or less.
Make their diapers the only thing from their Big Kid stage that they'd want to remember about their early childhood, however, don't loose sight of their "big kid abilities" and use baby words in babyish tones your Big Kid could accept (in hopes that they'll want to accept the diapers any more as something more soothing) to make them accept the diapers more now than ever before.
Have the child express whether or not they want to wear diapers at any time they'd like to talk - even if that means at that immediate time or anytime in the near future.
Explain - with a new diaper in hand - the new diaper-changing routine to them, so they understand what they may expect when they are wearing their diaper.
Come to an agreement that their diapers can be hidden out in public or in private for when other friends come over or when older siblings enter their room, but yet they can still reach out into their secret spot and pull out a diaper when they feel they need their diaper changed.
Explain that if they keep moving around, their diaper changes will last much longer, and that this may hinder their times to becoming the "Big Kid" they'd want to expect to become.

,
Make the diapers readily available in a nearby room where most of the child's dressing will be done.
Prepare an area that you could use that is big enough for both you and your child when your child needs their diaper changed and where there could be little to no fuss yet secure enough for others not to notice their need to wear these diapers.