
Recognize when you reveal too much too soon.If you’re clingy, you might want to get everything about your feelings or your life off your chest right away because you fear that the person you feel very clingy toward might abandon you at any moment.
Identify an inability to make decisions.Clingy people will want to make the “right” decision – that is, the decision which they believe will please and win the affections of the person they are clinging to.
Search your feelings for fear of separation from someone.
Look for highs and lows in your relationships.In other words, look for cycles of emotional boom and bust, in which you and your friend or partner get along really well for a long stretch and nothing can go wrong, but then things seem to take a nasty turn for the worse, for days on end.
Ask your friend if you are too clingy.
Listen to what your friend has to say.A friend or partner who asks to limit your time together and wants to institute more stringent boundaries is, in a way, telling you that you’re being a bit overbearing.
Identify behavior in your friend or partner which indicates they are unable to develop deep bonds.
Familiarize yourself with stories in which characters support and care for each other.Sometimes in childhood, we fail to form secure attachments.
Spend time on your own hobbies.In order to break yourself of clinging to one individual, distract yourself with some healthy hobbies.
Seek therapeutic treatment.Psychotherapy is the best option to tackle your dependent behavior.
Try medication.Your therapist can prescribe medication for specific symptoms in cases where your clingy behavior constitutes an actual dependent personality disorder.
Acknowledge your feelings but don’t react negatively.
Understand why you’re clingy.
Be patient with yourself and with your friend or partner.Your partner will be frustrated with you because you are too clingy.
Spend time with other friends.Being too clingy with one person means you’ve neglected other people in your life who care about you.
Accept the boundaries your friend or partner draws between you.
Use imagery to envision a healthy relationship.Thinking about a secure interpersonal relationship can help both you and the other party become more comfortable with and trusting of each other.