
Decide if you truly want to visit Epcot.
Realize that Epcot mostly tries to give people information they would not have known of otherwise.
Drive and park at Walt Disney World.
Purchase your tickets and enter through the turnstiles.

,
Pick up a map and realize that Epcot is spread into two main "lands".
See what it's like to be a car design tester.
Soar to outer space.
See the history of energy and where energy will make us soar to new heights in decades to come.
Visit Spaceship Earth, which is the theme building for Epcot.
Visit the The Seas with Nemo and Friends exhibit, if you'd like to learn about the interesting stuff that goes on with the ocean floor.
Visit The Land building.
Don't plan on visiting the former attraction called "Wonders of Life" unless an annual seasonal exhibit has come to the park that exists within this building.
Visit Journey into the Imagination with Figment if you would like to learn about the way our sense of sight is communicated to our minds.
Interact in the Innoventions area found inside the center of all the Future World attractions.
Cross the pathway as you walk over to the area to World Showcase.
Get a history of Mexico at the Mexico pavilion, or shop for Mexican gifts in the Mexico pavillion.
Ride the "Frozen Ever After" ride that is located inside the Norway pavilion at the former site of Maelstrom.
Be passionate when you watch the culturally-rich history/movie called Reflections of China in the China exhibit in Epcot.
Visit what would have been an East African village exhibit at The Outpost.
Have an Oktoberfest right at the Germany pavilion.
Spice up some information about Italy inside the Italy pavilion.
Learn a little more about our own heritage and culture in the American Adventure pavilion.
Learn a little more about Japanese culture when you visit the Japan pavilion.
Learn about Morocco's culturally rich history through shopping and some dining in the Morocco pavilion.
Get your French passion on to learn a little of the history at the France pavilion.
Learn about the English heritage in the United Kingdom pavillion.
Watch the really enticing 3D movie called Oh Canada in the Canada pavilion of the Epcot park.
Take a trip on the boats that can take you around the World Showcase.
Watch Epcot's nighttime illuminated show called Illuminations:Reflections of Earth.
Look for showings of "JAMMITORS at Future World East".
Look to meet with several characters including Anna and Elsa, Belle and many more characters in such places as in Norway, United Kingdom, France, Mexico, China, Morocco, Germany and in the Epcot-special place called The Epcot Character Spot.

,
View a mariachi band near the Norway pavilion in the Mariachi Cobre.

