
Think about what you consider to be pretty.
Believe in your own beauty.
Know that beauty also comes from the inside.
Smile often.
Be polite.
Show that your care for others.
Try to be more positive and supportive.
Don't be a bully and don't encourage bullying.
Work and study hard.
Don't forget about your hobbies and talents.
Learn about the world around you.
Try to be confident, but don't be arrogant.
Maintain good hygiene.
Get enough sleep.
Consider eating healthy food and skip on the junk food.
Drink more water.
Exercise to stay healthy.
Know what you can do to lose weight if you are self-conscious about your body.
Take care of your face by washing it twice a day.
Use toner and moisturizer after washing your face.
Protect your skin from the sun.
Know that acne, pimples, and blackheads are normal.
Buy the right products for your hair type.
Make sure that you are washing and brushing your hair properly.
Know how to tame annoying frizz.
Know how to take care of split ends.
Use curling irons, flat irons, and hairdryers with care.
Know what to do on bad hair days.
Use the right styling products to get the right look.
Experiment with different hairstyles.
Understand that style is a fluid concept.
Don't be afraid to experiment with different styles.
Embracing what you like may take bravery, but you are not alone in your exploration.
Recognize that your personal style is your own.
Know that every shape is pretty, and beautiful clothes exist for every type of person.
Make sure that your clothes are clean and in good condition.
Highlight your own best features.
Wear clothes that fit you, even if they aren't currently in fashion.
Try adding some accessories.
Understand that you don't have to wear makeup to be pretty.
Start with a clean face before applying any makeup.
Use foundation or a tinted moisturizer to even out your skin tone.
Use makeup to bring some color to your cheeks or lips.
Go light on the eye makeup.
Limit the perfume.
Know how to make your makeup work with your glasses.
Always remove all of your makeup before going to bed.