
Watch for leg pain and/or trouble walking.Because Cauda Equina Syndrome (CES) affects the nerves at the bottom of your spinal cord, and because many of these nerves go to your legs, CES in the early stages may present as pain radiating down one or both legs, and/or trouble moving your legs or walking with the same ease as before.
See your doctor immediately if you are experiencing bladder and/or bowel dysfunction.If you cannot pass urine (i.e.
Notice if you are experience unusual challenges sexually.If you are experiencing a rather sudden and unusual decrease in your sexual sensation, and/or your ability for erection and/or orgasm, this may be a potential sign of CES.
Look out for numbness in the "saddle area.
Pay attention to lower back pain.
Be aware of loss of reflexes.
Consider whether you have had any recent "triggering incidents.
Go to the Emergency Room immediately if you notice any "red flag" symptoms.If you are experiencing any of the symptoms described in this article — leg pain and/or trouble walking, severe back pain or pain or numbness in the saddle area, bladder and/or bowel dysfunction, diminished reflexes in the extremities, sudden changes in sexual function, triggering incidents — it is key that you go straight to the nearest emergency room immediately.
Have your doctor perform a neurological exam.Your doctor will test your reflexes, your ability to move your lower limbs, your strength when he or she applies resistance to your leg muscles, and your sensation when he or she tests your skin with various objects.
Obtain a CT or MRI.If your symptoms suggest that you may have CES, it is key that you receive an imaging test (either a CT or an MRI) as soon as possible.
Receive a myelogram.In addition to standard CT or MRI imaging, you may also receive something called a myelogram.
Receive neurologic nerve testing of the lower extremities.Neurologic tests can help confirm CES and should be undertaken as soon as possible.
Receive emergency surgery.If you have been diagnosed with Cauda Equina Syndrome (CES), it is key to see a neurosurgeon for surgery immediately.
Prepare for the possible long-term consequences following CES.Depending upon how quickly you received surgical treatment following the onset of symptoms, as well as the degree of neurological (nerve-related) compromise that occurred in your spinal cord, you may end up with residual long-term symptoms or disabilities following CES.
Understand why it is key to seek treatment urgently.If you are experiencing the signs and symptoms of potential CES and fail to receive medical attention immediately, it may result in permanent paralysis of your lower limbs, permanent loss of sexual function and sensation, and/or chronically impaired bladder or bowel function.