
Have your testosterone levels checked.Before you will even be eligible to consider testosterone therapy (as prescribed by a medical doctor), you will need to have your testosterone levels checked via a blood test.
Get a repeat blood test.If your first blood test does come back showing low testosterone, your doctor will ask that you get a repeat blood test.
Discuss with your doctor the pros and cons of receiving treatment.Although testosterone may help with libido, erections, and building muscle mass, among other things, there are also risks involved to undergoing the therapy.
Decide upon a route of administration.If you and your doctor jointly decide that it is in your best interest to proceed with testosterone replacement therapy, you will next need to decide how you would like to receive the testosterone.
Receive testosterone through your skin.One of the simplest ways to receive your testosterone is through your skin.
Have testosterone injected or implanted into your body.Another option is to receive testosterone injections every one to three weeks.
Understand the risk of receiving testosterone orally.Some people may wonder why testosterone therapy is not offered via pills.
Observe changes to your sexual function.One of the main ways in which low testosterone can manifest is as a low sexual desire and/or reduced spontaneous erections, or trouble with erections overall.
Make note of changes to your sleep and energy levels.Low testosterone can also lead to problems sleeping and even insomnia.
Be aware of changes to your mood.Low testosterone may contribute to depression, irritability, and/or difficulty concentrating.
Notice changes to your physical body.If you have unexplained hair loss, or an unusual decline in your body's strength and muscle mass along with an increase in fat mass, this may be a sign that your testosterone levels are low.
Consider testosterone therapy for gender identity purposes.If you were assigned female at birth, but identify more with the male gender (such as if you are transgender or genderqueer), testosterone therapy may be something that you would like to consider.
Know the effects that testosterone therapy can provide.Undergoing testosterone therapy will increase your facial hair and your overall body hair, will lower your voice, will likely increase your libido, will stop your menstruation, and may enlarge your clitoris (called "clitoromegaly").
Get approved for the treatment.If you have decided that testosterone therapy is something you would like to go forward with, it is important to have this discussion with your doctor.