
Make sure you look at the letter board and the category carefully first.
Remember the most common letters in the English language: in order, E, T, A, O, I, N, S, H, R, D, L, C, U.

,
Note that the commonly-guessed letter R is less common than often-slighted H and that L appears even further down on the list.

,
If the category is a plural, there's a 90% chance there's at least one S in the puzzle.
In the categories, SONG/ARTIST and TITLE/AUTHOR, most contestants don't normally call the B & Y.
In STAR & ROLE, the S is the no brainier followed by buying the A as the vowel, because you're sure to find the word AS in the puzzle.

,
In ON THE MAP, if the T is the third letter of a four-letter word, the C & Y could be the next choices before buying the I as your vowel, hoping CITY is in the puzzle.

,
In FOOD & DRINK, call a T first.
If the T is the first letter of a three letter word, there's a 90% chance there will be the H before buying the E, hoping the puzzle has the definite article.

,
If you thought the T_ would be TO, it's not always the case.
A TITLE or PHRASE that has a two letter word may have the word OF.
For a PROPER NAME, take a look at the first blank word.
The contractions can be interesting if you know what words fit as a contraction.
If you call a N and it's the second last letter of a lengthy word, try calling a G before buying the I as your vowel.
If there's a Q in the puzzle, buy the U as Q is normally followed by a U.

,
If you see any single spaces and you have the money, try buying the A first and if it's not where you thought, buy the I.
If a THING begins with a two-letter word, it's most likely that the word is AN so call the N before buying the A, meaning the next word either starts with a vowel, or a silent H.

,
If you see a puzzle with a ?,
If you see any .
If you know one of the key words in the puzzle, use context to deduce what some of the other key words could be.
Try to call the multiple set of consonants when landing on a higher dollar amount.
Buy vowels.
When the category WHAT ARE YOU DOING?