
Be careful.
Have the right equipment and parts before you begin.Disconnect the ground cable from the battery - 10mm.
Remove the driveshaft.
Remove the airbox.
Remove the coolant tank and set aside.
Disconnect the second O2 sensor connector from under the coolant tank (leftmost connector).
Remove the O2 sensors.
Remove the nuts from the cat-to-turbo connection.
Remove the trans-to-engine bolts that you can get to from above.
Remove the engine pan/cover from underneath.
Remove the bracket for engine pan/cover.
Jack the car up and put on the jack stands.
Remove the heatshield from the passenger side drive axle.With the car supported on jack stands, place slight pressure on the trans with a jack.
Unbolt the passenger side mount/support (leave mount connected to support).
Loosen the clamping sleeve on the downpipe-to-exhaust connection.
Remove the cat/downpipe by pulling it out from under the car.
Remove the RPM sensor from the transmission.
Disconnect the drive axles.
Disconnect the speed sensor and reverse light connectors on the driver's side of the trans.
Remove the starter, two 16mm bolts and one 6mm Allen bolt.
Disconnect the shift rod.
Disconnect shift pivot rod.
Remove the heat shield for the driveshaft.
Remove the driveshaft from the trans.
Remove the four engine-to-trans bolts on the bottom (all 16mm).Place the transmission jack under the trans and put pressure on it.
Remove the driver's side trans mount-to-support bolt (8mm Allen bolt).Remove the last two engine-to-trans bolts.Slide the trans and trans jack back just enough for the bell housing to clear the pressure plate.
Lower the trans just enough to get access to the clutch slave cylinder.
Make sure that all drive axles are clear of the trans and lower it.
Take a break before proceeding to the next stage.
Remove the six 6mm Allen head bolts from the pressure plate and remove it and the clutch plate.
Bust out the impact wrench to loosen the six 17mm flywheel bolts.
Put the clutch disk and pressure plate on.