
Decide if you truly want to visit Disney's Hollywood Studios.
Drive and park at Walt Disney World.
Purchase your tickets and enter through the turnstiles.

,
Realize that Disney's Hollywood Studios is spread into several "lands" placed sporadically throughout the park.
Recognize that the first section you'll enter into as you enter the park is called Hollywood Boulevard and but that this land only gives you options for dining and shopping choices - there are no rides or attractions in this area.
Walk down the walkway and recognize what choices of attractions you have in this section.
Walk towards Rock 'n' Roller Coaster if you like roller coasters and Aerosmith is wild enough for you to try to mess with it.
Take the up and down plunge at the Hollywood Tower of Terror hotel building around the corner.
Watch the Beauty and the Beast stage show just after passing the shops on the long walkway down another short walkway on the opposite side of Rock 'n' Roller Coaster.

,
Note the placement of the Fantasmic show (if you have arrived during the daytime).
Walk back to the hub of the park and take a breather, if you want.
Take in a showing of the Frozen Sing-Along Celebration if you have fans of Frozen in your party.
Visit Olaf at "Celebrity Spotlight" following a showing of "Frozen Sing-Along Celebration".
Be sure not to pass up a showing of Indiana Jones Epic Stunt Spectacular if you'd like to know how some stunts on movies and TV shows are performed.

,
Pass into the Great Movie Ride right around the corner from Frozen Sing-Along Celebration.
Pass back up into Echo Lake and continue walking towards the next section of park called "Commissary Lane".

,
Take a right when you see Echo Lake on your left and follow the long walkway down and around.
Watch the 3-D motion simulator show Star Tours® - The Adventures Continue, if you don't mind the simulator.
Continue down the pathway.
Watch the really funny Muppet Vision 3D show, just on your left as you walk down the street heading towards the Lights, Action, Super Stunt Show.
Watch at least one showing of Lights!,
Walk back over to the area in back of the Great Movie Ride.
Walk down Mickey Ave. You'll come up to a building that talks about Walt Disney's life.
Take in the Honey , I Shrunk the Kids Movie Set Adventure, a place where kids can use up that last bit of excitement and play on safe things where your kids can control the action.

,
Walk back past Echo Lake into Hollywood Boulevard and out the exit gate.

,
Walk back to your car and drive back to your hotel or home (dependent on where you live at the moment).

