
Create your goals and objectives.
Look at all the strengths and weaknesses of both yourself and your operation.
See what facilities you have now, and how they are laid out.
Understand how much work, time, and money that you may need to put into this.
Begin the planning process.
Begin planning out the layout of your pastures.
Map out the areas on your farm that differ from each other in terms of plant species composition, soil, and terrain.
Plan out your paddocks.
Assess the materials and equipment needed to make these pastures.
Budget for costs associated with these materials.
Check local laws and regulations that pertain to building fences.
Mark out and locate potential hazards, no matter if they are natural or man-made.
Mark out the fence-lines on your land.
Start building the fences.
Plan out watering locations.
Find out more about the various methods to get water to a pasture system, and choose what may be best for you.
Mark out the locations of the water source(s), as well as pipelines.
Find the materials and equipment needed for building and establishing watering facilities.
Build and establish the water facilities.
Assess the amount of pasture forage you have in your pastures and paddocks.
Determine the utilization rate for the majority of your paddocks.
Calculate the estimated stocking rate for your farm or ranch.
Determine how much land you have available.
Judge the cumulative amount of time you want to be grazing your animals for.
Determine the amount of time to keep your animals in each paddock.
Estimate the rest period for each paddock after grazing.
Determine the number of paddocks you wish to have for your grazing program.
Determine the size of your paddocks.
Determine the number of acres available per day.
Calculate the amount of forage that is available and consumed per day.
Determine and calculate how many animal units you can have for your land on a daily basis.
Adjust for the type and weights of animals you wish to graze.
Move your animals as regularly as you have already chosen.
Make observations of the plants left behind after every move.
Check the grazed pastures or paddocks once every few days to a week or so to note how plants are coming back.
Use observation to be the key to see what changes may need to be made.
Watch your animals and your plants.
Observe how fences are holding up, as well as the watering systems.