
Be aware of what causes diabetic gastroparesis.For people who have had diabetes for a while (normally at least 10 years with the disease), gradually complications start to occur such as damage to the nerves.
Monitor your blood sugar levels.If you have diabetic gastroparesis, or are at risk of developing the condition, it is especially important to watch your blood sugar levels closely.
Take your insulin after meals rather than before.When suffering from diabetic gastroparesis, it is advisable to take your insulin injections after eating meals instead of before.
Eat smaller, more frequent meals.To ease the symptoms of diabetic gastroparesis, it is advisable to eat smaller, more frequent meals instead of infrequent larger ones.
Practice chewing your food properly.
Avoid foods that are high in fat.It is hard for the body to digest fat since it is insoluble in water.
Avoid eating food that is rich in fiber.Although fiber is healthy for most individuals, if you suffer from diabetic gastroparesis too much fiber can make your digestion problems worse.
Start exercising.
Do not lie down after eating.
Take medications to increase the rate of digestion.
Optimize your blood sugar control.If you are finding that your blood sugars are not properly under control (or are not meeting the targets your doctor set for you), your doctor may prescribe higher doses of medication or of insulin.
Know that your doctor may put you on a liquid diet.
Undergo electrical stimulation of the gastric muscles.This is reserved for more severe cases.
Opt for surgery.
Look for a feeling of fullness.An early symptom of diabetic gastroparesis is a feeling of being full most of the time.
See whether you feel bloated.Bloating is caused by the delayed stomach emptying that may be caused by impairment of the abdominal muscles.
Identify abdominal pain.Abdominal pain due to gastroparesis is felt in the upper abdomen and is caused by accumulation of food in the stomach and delayed digestion.
Watch out for changes in your general blood sugar levels.Diabetic gastroparesis may cause a reduction in your overall blood sugar level after eating.
Consider whether you've lost any weight.
Identify an acidic sensation in the throat.