
Use shortcuts: Windows key + left /right arrow: to move the current windows to the half left/right of the screen.
Display the Jump list quickly: To display the Jump list of the application on the Taskbar, left-click on them and drag them up instead of the usual right-click.

,
Add any folders to Favorites: On Windows Explorer you can put them in Favorites at any location.
Pin frequently used folders: At Jump list, usually they only contain 10 categories in the list of regular.
Open Command Prompt fast: To be able to quickly open the Command Prompt, you simply hold down the Shift key and right-click on any folder.
Reveal a number of folders on the Send to menu: Usually when you right-click on a file or a folder and select Send to, it only shows a mere 6 or 7 destination selection of the sending files.
Clarify texts on the screen: For the current LCD screens, sometimes you might feel like the texts looks blurry, it may be because the resolution is not proper to the screen standard one.
Adjust color and contrast: Windows 7 offers a very convenient feature to adjust color, contrast and brightness for your computer.
Show and hide the windows status: By default in Windows XP or Vista, when you open an application or a window, the display status is located below the Taskbar including the programs icons and a part of program names.
Change the Power button: By default, Windows 7 will first display the Shutdown button on the Start menu, but if you want to change them into Log Off, Restart or Sleep mode etc.
Put the Search function on the Start Menu: To put this function into the Start menu, you press Windows + R then enter the line: gpedit.msc.
Add the Copy To and Move To on the shortcut menu: In order to be more convenient to copy and move files in Windows 7, you can add the Copy To and Move To option on the shortcut menu.
Add Quick Launch on the Taskbar: To create Quick Launch on the Taskbar in Windows 7 you first right-click on the Taskbar then select Toolbars \ New Toolbar.