
Use this method to get rid of Bing pop-ups.
Open the Run window.
Type .appwiz.cpl and press ↵ Enter.
Look for programs and toolbars you don't recognize.
Select a program you want to remove and click the "Uninstall" button.
Click the Chrome menu button (☰) and select Settings.
Find the "Search" section of the Settings menu.
Select a different search engine from the menu.
Click the "Extensions" tab on the left side of the Settings page.
Disable any extension that says "Bing" or that you don't recognize.
Download and run the Chrome Cleanup Tool.
Click the Tools menu or Gear button and select "Manage add-ons.",
Select "Search Providers" in the left menu.
Select "Bing" in the list of search providers.
Click the "Remove" button.
Remove any other search engines you don't recognize.
Select the "Toolbars and Extensions" option in the left menu.
Select extensions that say "Bing" or that you don't recognize.
Click the "Disable" button after selecting an extension.
Restart Internet Explorer after disabling extensions.
Click the Firefox menu button (☰) and select "Options.",
Click the "Search" tab in the left menu.
Select a different search engine as your default.
Click the Firefox menu button (☰) and select "Add-ons.",
Click the "Extensions" option in the left menu.
Click "Remove" next to each suspicious extension.
Click the Safari or Edit menu and select "Preferences.",
Click the "Default search engine" menu and select something other than Bing.
Click the "Extensions" tab at the top of the window.
Select extensions you don't recognize and click "Uninstall.",
Remove Bing from Windows Search in Windows 10.
Remove Bing from Windows Search in Windows 8 and 8.1.
Click the Magnifying Glass button in the address bar.
Select a different search engine at the bottom (if available).
Click the "Add" button to find new search engines.
Click the "Add" button next to the search engine you want to add.
Click "Add" in the window that appears.
Open the "Manage add-ons" window from the Tools menu.
Click the "Search Providers" tab in the left menu.
Select "Bing" and click Remove.",
Select the search provider you want to use as the default and click "Set as default.",
Visit the search engine that you want to add.
Click the "..." button and select "Settings.",
Click "View advanced settings.",
Click the "Change" button underneath "Search in the address bar with.",
Select the search engine you want to set as the default.
Click "Set as default.",
Download AdwCleaner.
Run AdwCleaner and download the additional files.
Click "Scan" once AdwCleaner loads.
Click "Clean" once the scan is complete.
Download and install Malwarebytes Anti-Malware.
Launch Anti-Malware after installing.
Click "Scan Now" to begin scanning your system.
Click "Remove Selected" after the scan is complete.
Download and run a shortcut cleaner utility.