

Learn about the body's very vulnerable areas: These are commonly known as pressure points.

Striking the flat of the forehead forces the head back with little resistance and will actually rock the brain within the skull, causing a concussion, or worse.

Temples: The temples are the thinnest part of the cranium, so a good blow here (one-knuckle punch is ideal) can cause concussion, hemorrhaging, or even death.

Temple 2: When this area is hit, the victim may be rendered unconscious, in some cases dead.

Neck/sleeper: This is another more obvious pressure point but is very complicated in application.

Look for the collar bone.

The easiest way to strike is probably with a knife hand (karate chop) turned up side down.

Under the jaw: Grab the neck on the front and reach under the jaw.

TMJ: Support the head with one hand.

Forearm/crevice: The crevice of your forearm is made entirely of muscles and tendons, so there's lots to work with.

Back of the hand: If you are grabbed, look directly at the hand of your assailant, and with either a regular or single-knuckle punch, strike the bones in the back of the hand.
Pinch the fingers for a simple defense.

Sternum: Strike with a single-knuckle to the bone in the middle of the chest.

Solar plexus: This is a bundle of nerves deep within the center of the abdomen, thought to be responsible for the physical feelings of deep emotions.

Love handles: Place your hand flat on the side of the abdomen, between the ribs and hips.

Ribs: The ribs have very little covering, regardless of the body type, and only thin muscle between them.

Feet: Look down at the foot, and using your heel, raise your knee as high as you can, and stomp on the arch of the foot as hard as you can.
If feeling drowsy or can't concentrate using both pointer fingers, apply pressure.
Headaches are a pain.
Bear in mind that speed is key in a fight.
Practice on yourself and with a friend.
Practice your focus.
Hone your techniques.
Move your weight toward the direction you're putting pressure.
Practice the recoil.
Yell.