
Have your parents help you choose the bedwetting diaper that fits you the best.
Bring these packages home and open up the package.
Sample the diaper for a proper fit, as well as to check for this diaper's absorption and leak rates, to ensure it will hold an adequate amount of urine if an accident occurs, prior to the real nighttime 'run'.
Have your parents set up a new routine for you and your bedwetting problem with these diapers now.
Use the toilet before climbing into bed that night and/or before becoming changed into your nighttime diaper.
Utilize the schedule that your parents should have worked out with you.
Keep your mind off wearing the diaper, as you try to allow yourself to fall asleep with your diaper on.
Try to awaken yourself from your slumber, should you feel the diaper absorbing the urine during the night during a bedwetting incident.
Recognize when you might have wet yourself at night.
Try and change yourself out of any wet nightclothes during the night after any bedwetting incident that should have now secluded down into only urine into the diaper alone.
Relax for about five minutes again prior to returning to sleep during the night, if you've found that you have had an accident inside the diaper during the night.
Check your diaper for any new accidents that might have occurred and change out of your nightwear including your bedwetting diaper.
Try not to penalize yourself for your bedwetting accidents.
Dispose of the diapers that were used during the night and were changed because they were used during a bedwetting accident and dispose of them as they were found.

,
Clean up any bedwash that might have gotten wet, along with disposing of any bedwetting diapers that might have gotten soaked during the "accident" night that might be laying nearby your bed (and that may not be laying in a garbage can where they should be placed).

,
Respond to any medical attempts your parents might take you to.
Repeat this pattern every night until you have outgrown your bedwetting.
Keep track of your bedwetting on a chart, and take note of how many diapers you have to change during the night and potentially how much urine each one is like each day.
Don't insist on wearing a bedwetting diaper if your parents can see that you've grown out of your bedwetting stage, or have at least started on it's slow decline to non-activity.