
Assume they mean it when someone says that something hurts.
Don't act like it's just a phase, or a childish attempt at attention.
Ask how you can help them.
Realize that symptoms vary, both from day to day and from person to person.
Set up an action plan for when they feel overwhelmed.
Be patient and accommodating.
Know that it is possible that you will witness a meltdown or shutdown.
Help them find a good occupational therapist, if possible.An occupational therapist can introduce them to stimuli in controlled, nonthreatening ways to help desensitize them.
Find out what other autistic people do to handle Sensory Processing Disorder.
Always listen to them—about their feelings and their needs.
Keep any room decorations subtle.
Pick places that won't be crowded when going outdoors.
Choose seating based on their visual hypersensitivity.
Beware fluorescent lights.
Minimize ambient movement during class time or other times of concentration.
Suggest sunglasses and/or putting up their hood if they are bothered by something that is out of your control.
Find quiet, peaceful areas to hang out.
Avoid making sudden noises.
Announce loud noises before you make them.
Make sure that they have access to earplugs and/or headphones.
Remind other people to be considerate.
Choose cleaning products without a strong smell.
Avoid cooking foods that smell incredibly strong.
Make sure there is adequate ventilation.
Allow them to leave, or sit away from other people.
Provide bland "kid food" or "American food.",
Consider the texture of the food as well.
Serve any spices and flavorings on the side.
Avoid allowing foods to touch each other if you are serving them.
Avoid trying to "hide" certain foods within foods that they like.
Recognize the difference between poor motor skills and hypersensitivity.
Let them do their own thing when it comes to clothes.
Avoid touching the autistic person without clear permission.
Avoid touching the autistic person when they are focusing on something else.
Provide alternatives to a traditional table and chair.Some autistic people need a little more room to wiggle.
Have your autistic child try on clothes before purchasing them if you're a parent.
Find a good detergent.
Fill rooms with soft fabrics.
Offer deep pressure.