
Accept your circumstances; accept your family, friends and acquaintance's opinions.
Try exercise or sport blowing off steam by forming a new habit: making a good habit can take a couple weeks, a month or more.
Make small changes like improving your appearance and get yourself a treat when you have completed your goals.
Avoid blaming others (but rather take responsibility for anything that you might have handled better) is a good idea.
Think about laughing appropriately and don't rudely discuss or laugh at other people's sensitive topics.
Doubt your hearing and your sight.
Realize that people will treat you better when you do not accuse them of wronging you, "bad mouthing" you or opposing you.
Maintain relaxed eye contact to show confidence, but without staring fixedly.
Believe this: hardly anyone will think that you're odd if you:


Act and react calmly--when others might complain loudly or argue or "go off half-cocked.",
Avoid publicly laughing or "cursing" for no apparent reason or talking to yourself--or muttering and giggling in public--but if you do, then look to see whether anyone is looking at you inquisitively and "say excuse me I just thought of something" and chuckle, but don't explain!

,
You may enjoy "talking back" to your TV (in private); or call a talk show, or cheer for a ball team on radio or TV, and argue with the 'nuts' opinions on the radio talk programs or news and commentary, etc.
Hang up the phone and calm down when you get angry or insulted, feeling hurt--calm down and then call back nicely and pick up the conversation with; "We got cut off!",
Stop looking over your shoulder constantly.
Don't accuse strangers of following you--or even watching what you are doing...
Don't confuse taking a stand for safety with "being defensive.",
Reject fearful, paranoid thoughts liking listening closely to every mumble that you hear in your work place, or in a store.
Realize that your attitude makes a great impact on yourself and others and that frowning, cynicism, sarcasm and fatalism are kinds of craziness, which may be self-defeating and are "dis-humor"--so lighten up.
Find an activity that seems worthwhile to accomplish and get busy.
Don't continually grumble: "Well they should know that/what I want..." (don't expect mind reading) or "I should be able to do what I want..." (realize others are affected).
Acknowledge your fears and doubts to someone that you can trust; you're taking away some of its momentum.
Introduce a new positive outlook to every new day.
Help someone that has less than you and wants some help; this may help your mood and your self-concept, as you take one hour at a time!

