
Forget everything you thought you knew about autism.
Recognize that autistic listening body language is different from neurotypical listening body language.
Expect stimming, a type of repetitive fidgeting that helps with focus and self-control.
Know that they may speak a little differently.
Be aware that they may be hurt or upset by things that do not bother others.
Expect some organization problems.
Be aware that their social behavior may be different.
Know that co-occurring conditions are a possibility.
Make your expectations clear.
Make sure that all important directions are written down clearly.
Set up a class website.
Break large assignments into smaller pieces with individual due dates.
Make it clear how students can get extra help if they need it.
Go over assignment directions in class, providing time to answer questions.
Post any power points or notes online for students to access.
On the first day of class, encourage any disabled students to meet with or email you.
Let them sit where they please.
Consider alternative seating for especially fidgety students.
Give plenty of warning for due dates and changes in routine.
Don't put them on the spot.
If you grade on class participation, don't rely on verbal participation only.
Be compassionate about problems that arise.
Take them aside and gently explain if they are behaving inappropriately.
Keep in contact with the college's disability services center.
Assign groups, and keep them small.
Let them work alone on small tasks.If they can do it by themselves, doing it with a partner might actually be harder, because they have to navigate a confusing social situation.
Keep things from becoming too loud.
Pay attention to the autistic person's group, and if things are going smoothly.
Check up on the division of labor.
Teach the autistic student how to handle recurring problems.
Know the warning signs of stress.
Quietly check up on them, just like you would with a neurotypical student who looks sick or very upset.
Intervene immediately if they begin self-injuring.
Treat the problem as real, even if it doesn't make sense to you.
Quietly suggest that they leave if you can tell that stress is boiling over.
Reflect on what just happened.
Take a deep breath or two and continue teaching.
Be understanding and nonchalant when they return.
Try letting students pick their own essay or project topics.
Along with showing example problems, write down the general steps used to solve the problem.
Use visual supports.
Praise them a little.
Harness their potential for enthusiasm and deep focus.
Get to know the student as an individual.