
Visit the Netflix website.
Click the Join Free for a Month button.
Click the plan you want to subscribe to.Click Continue.
Enter your email address.
Create a password.Click Register.
Click the payment method you want to use.
Enter your payment details.
Click the devices you plan on streaming to.
Open a browser that supports high-quality streaming.Click Sign In.
Click your profile.
Scroll through the top categories.
Click the > button to see more titles in a category.
Click the Search button to search for a title.Click the Browse button to view all of the categories.
Click a title to open its details.Click the Play button to begin watching something.
Install the Netflix app.
Open the Netflix app.Tap Sign In.Enter your Netflix login details.Tap Sign In.
Tap the Profile you want to use.Swipe up and down to scroll through the recommendations.Swipe left and right to see more titles in a category.
Tap the ☰ button to open the menu.Scroll down in the menu to view all the categories.
Tap the magnifying glass button in the upper-right to search.
Tap the Cast button if you have a Chromecast on your network.
Tap a title to view details.
Tap the Play button on a title to start watching.
Connect your Roku and set it up.
Create a Roku account if you don't have one.Select Home from the Roku main menu.
Highlight Netflix.Select Sign In.Enter your Netflix login email address and click Next.Enter your Netflix password and click Sign In.Click Start.
Select the profile that you want to use.
Scroll up and down to view the recommended categories.
Scroll to the bottom of the menu to find more options.
Select the magnifying glass to search.
Select the Categories button to view the category list.
Select a title to view details.
Select Play to begin playing the title.
Look for a Netflix button on your remote.
Open your TV's Home menu.
Open the Apps or Internet section.
Select Netflix.
Select Sign In or Yes.
Visit netflix.com/activate on a computer or mobile device.Sign into the activation site with your Netflix account.Type in the code displayed on your TV.
Click Activate.
Use your remote to navigate Netflix.
Scroll up and down to view recommended categories.
Scroll right and left to view more titles in a category.Scroll to the bottom of the list to view menu options.
Select the magnifying glass to search.
Select a title to view the details.
Select Play to begin watching.