
Understand the size of Australia.
Be prepared to travel long distances between major attractions.
Do not expect Australian businesses to accept your home currency.
Feel safe.
Do not expect your small appliances like hair dryers and shavers to work.
Expect your portable radio to work on both AM and FM bands.

,
Do not expect your cellular phone to work unless it is a triple band unit.
Remember that Australian drive on the left side of the road.
Drink the water.
Be careful with larger animals.
Swim between the flags at beaches.
Use sunscreen, a t-shirt, and a hat to avoid painful and sometimes debilitating sunburn.

,
Drive into the main street of small towns on highway trips when seeking a meal.
Canberra has fantastic museums!,
Ski at resorts in the region south of Canberra in June - August.
The South Australian Museum in Adelaide has the largest display of Aboriginal culture - including videos, photographs and artifacts - in the world.

,
Scuba dive along the coast south of Sydney, in the Great Barrier Reef, and off Tasmania's coast.
Fly in hot air balloons.
Inspect motoring history at the National Motor Museum in Birdwood, a village north-west of Adelaide.

,
Sample fine wines at Margaret River in Western Australia, the Yarra Valley near Melbourne, the Hunter Valley in New South Wales north of Sydney and the Barossa and Clare Valleys in South Australia.
Greet pods of friendly dolphins at Monkey Mia in Western Australia and Tangalooma, off the coast near Brisbane.

,
Swim with sea lions - or dive with sharks - from Port Lincoln on the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia.

,
Dive with sharks - if you don't have time to go to the Eyre Peninsula - at the Sydney Aquarium.

,
Obtain travelers' health insurance before you leave home to cover you on your trip.
Be awed by Uluru, the world’s largest exposed monolith.

,
Surf the Southern Ocean at Bells Beach, southwest of Melbourne.
Travel the Great Ocean Road along the southern coast of Victoria, for awesome views of the coast and charming small villages.

