
Avoid getting water in the affected eye.
Adjust your washing routine.
Avoid cosmetic products around the eyes.You should avoid putting any foreign substance on the skin around the eye until cleared by your doctor.
Protect your eyes from direct sunlight.
Wear a shield over your eye when you sleep.
Avoid dust and smoke.For at least the first week after surgery, treat such irritants as potential causes of infection.
Do not rub your eyes.Your eye might itch after surgery, but resist the temptation to rub it.
Be wary of bacteria.Wash your hands whenever there's risk of exposure to bacteria: outdoors, bathroom, traveling, etc.
Report severe symptoms to your doctor immediately.
Take care of yourself.To maintain your good health after surgery, eat balanced meals of lean proteins, fruits, vegetables, whole grains, dairy, and raw juices.
Take restorative vitamins.While not a replacement for a balanced diet, multivitamins can help round out your diet.
Limit computer screen exposure.Depending on the surgery and your personal recovery, your doctor will give you specific instructions on screen time.
Use eye drops as directed.
Administer the eye drops.Tilt your head backward and focus both eyes upward to avoid blinking.
Learn how to apply eye ointment.
Clean your eye as directed by a doctor.Your doctor will likely tell you to clean around your eye twice a day.
Take part in light activities.You can perform light movements the day you get home from surgery.
Wait before resuming sexual activity.Like with exercise, you need to work slowly back into sexual activity.
Do not drive immediately after surgery.Blurred vision after surgery may compromise your safety while driving.
Ask your doctor when you can resume working.Again, recovery time depends on surgery type and your personal recovery.
Abstain from alcohol during recovery.While a glass of wine might sound like just what you need to feel better, alcohol increases the body’s tendency to retain liquid.If liquid builds up in your recovering eye, it could increase pressure as well.
Rest for at least 24 hours after cataract surgery.Cataracts surgery removes a cataract, or a cloudy lens that normally develops with age.The surgeon inserts an artificial lens implant.
Be patient after retinal detachment surgery.The symptoms that prompted you to have surgery in the first place may persist for some time after surgery, but will gradually fade away.
Prepare for a long recovery from LASIK surgery.