
Whether you are 18 or 81, most community colleges offer welding classes you can attend.
Go to your local community college and ask for a class schedule that lists all the different classes that they offer.

,
Take a walk around the campus and check out its welding facilities to help determine if welding is something that you would be interested in.

,
Find out when the welding class ends for the day and talk to the instructor who teaches it.
Learn on your own.
Buy, borrow or rent a welder.
Obtain your welding rods (electrodes).
Find some mild steel to practice with.
Set your piece of steel on a clean, dry, level surface which is heat resistant and nonflammable.
Attach your ground clamp.
Put on your welding gloves.
Insert the "clean end" (the end without the powder flux coating) of your electrode into the electrode holder.
Practice "striking" the electrode against the welding stock (the sample metal you will be welding on).
Set the temperature range (or amperage) of your welder to about 80A (amps).

,
Put on your safety glasses and welding hood (or helmet, as it is sometimes called), with the dark lens flipped up to allow you to see.
Turn the welder on.
Flip the dark lens or full face helmet down before you strike the electrode against the practice metal.
Move the electrode along the surface of the metal slowly, watching the pool of molten metal beneath the arc flame.
Run your bead an inch or so along the metal, then pull the electrode back to break the arc.

,
When you raise your shield, to look at your weld and evaluate it, you must have your safety glasses on.
Use a chipping hammer (or other tool) to knock the slag (oxidized metal and melted flux) off the bead to see the new metal you have deposited from the welding rod.
Continue practicing on pieces of scrap metal, using the same rods and amperage setting, until you get a good, consistent bead.

,
Try joining two pieces of metal by welding.
Experiment with other rods (electrodes) and amperage to see the different effects you get.
Look into other welding processes, such as MIG (metal, inert gas) with solid and flux-core wire, or TIG (tungsten, inert gas) and oxyacetylene.