
Break out of doldrums.
Bring "urgent" -- exciting, important or thrilling ideas and events to the forefront of your life view -- for example:


Plan for education, career, spiritual matters, health -- but make time for your reading, meditation on your area of studies -- even relaxation, that may all be important to you.
Start by scheduling your priority items: not prioritizing your schedule.

,
Change your schedule to your priorities -- not the other way around.
Effectively Track and Accomplish Your Goals, ie: how you achieve goals should be "on purpose.",
Make time to do things that matter early each day; so that first things come first, before whatever else you can do that doesn't matter as much.
Pay yourself first.
Do an exciting, fun inventory to organize your goals and plans.
Look ahead (planning not just hoping) about five years up the road: "see what you want" and then start to plan it out -- so focus energies now and focus every time you have a day of planning time like today on progress...

,
Write a Mission Statement: Determine your life’s meaning to provide a clue of where you must spend your time on activities for that outcome, on a foundation -- building on it.
Align your purpose with a dream like a “career goal” and include keeping yourself out of excessive debt but so you can have the resources for travel if needed and for your mission adventures, and to be able to send your children to college, if appropriate.

,
Redirect your efforts from merely paying your bills which may mean little time for your ultimate, urgent goals – but you wish you were living your real purposes.
Get excited to jump out of bed each morning -- and remember or determine each day what you will achieve?,
Find enough time in each day to do what truly matters...

,
Find what you can let go.
Lock in your evenings, your dating life and/or family and evening meals as much as anything else in life.
Treat your important mission as an emergency.
Do not slide your future to the back.
Clear unnecessary items off your schedule.