
Identify timing choices related to outreach efforts that may be influenced by your analysis of traffic variation.
Identify choices that you may make based on what you infer about users from traffic patterns.
Give some weight to the validation you receive by seeing user behavior.
Understand the concepts of time range (date range) and granularity when graphing.
Choose time range and granularity based on the cycles and trends you want to focus on.
Do not choose too fine a granularity for the level of traffic that you have.
Keep in mind the role of location and the timezone aggregation problem.
Be cautious about confusing between periodic variation, random noise, and long-term trends.
Filter traffic based on loyalty, age, gender, and location to more clearly understand your traffic patterns.
Use traffic measurement including users, sessions, pageviews, and unique pageviews.Pageviews: This measures the number of times people open a page on the website.
Use derived metrics to assess traffic quality.
Keep in mind the following correlation rules of thumb.
Include conversion metrics if they matter to you.
Keep in mind the timezone aggregation problem when doing your analysis.
Use the general heuristic that traffic dips on weekends.Depending on how worldwide your audience is, and your timezone, traffic will be least at the time that is the overlap of weekend time for all relevant timezones.
Keep in mind the cultural and geographical limitations of some of the rules.
Use Google Trends to figure out traffic variation in the topics of interest to you.
Use Wikipedia views (via the WMF Labs tool) to verify the weekly trend.
If your site caters to work needs of professional audiences, use the heuristic that traffic is roughly constant during weekdays, and a much lower constant level during weekends.
If your website primarily addresses the academic needs of students, use the heuristic that traffic starts dropping Friday, bottoms out on Saturday, and rebounds on Sunday.
Keep in mind that websites related to home improvement, cooking, and similar activities have traffic peaks on Sunday.
Keep in mind the following heuristic for websites related to eating out.
Keep in mind the heuristic for parenting websites: traffic is lowest on Saturday, rises on Suday, peaks on Monday or Tuesday, and then declines through the week.
Keep in mind the heuristic for travel websites: traffic is lowest on Saturday, rises on Suday, peaks on Monday or Tuesday, and then declines through the week.
Keep in mind the following heuristic for health and medical advice websites: traffic is lowest on Saturday, rises on Suday, peaks on Monday or Tuesday, and then declines through the week.
Keep in mind the following heuristic for music audio and video content and other music-related material: Traffic is reasonably steady through the week, starts rising on Friday, peaks on Friday or Saturday, then falls through Sunday to Monday.
Use other heuristics based on the type of site.
Keep in mind how the weekly traffic cycle can interact with monthly and annual phenomena.The number of weekends in a month can significantly affect the amount of traffic a website receives in that month.
Keep in mind the following heuristics for how conversion events can vary between weekdays and weekends.
Identify the broad domain within which your website falls and how that might affect usage.
Use third-party tools to get a good baseline for seasonal fluctuation.
Use drilldown dimensions to verify hypotheses around the reasons for trends.
For academic sites, keep in mind the following guidelines for the traffic pattern.
Keep in mind the following heuristics for professional information websites.
Use the following traffic pattern heuristics for business-to-business (B2B) websites.
Keep in mind some heuristics for annual traffic cycles specific to the type of site.
Keep in mind the following annual pattern heuristics for conversion-related traffic.Use age, gender, and location filtering where relevant to verify hypotheses.
Use hourly granularity to study your website's traffic variation through the day.
Adjust for the following when considering traffic variation.
Use Google Trends to figure out traffic variation within the day for search terms related to your website.
Keep in mind a few heuristics regarding traffic variation within the day.
Keep in mind the following other general heuristics.
Use additional activity data where available to discern the daily cycle.
Keep in mind the way push factors generally operate.
If posting to Facebook, keep in mind the way Facebook circulation of posts changes over time.
Identify the various parameters that would affect the way your site would grow.
Use the following types of sources to get a sense of global patterns in web usage.
Keep in mind the following broad trends in Internet use for the United States.
Keep in mind the following heuristics regarding website traffic growth patterns.
Keep in mind the following information sources for search and social media updates that might affect your website traffic.