
Call 911 or the emergency services in your area if you think you (or another person) are experiencing a stroke.If you believe you (or another person) are having a stroke, it is key to receive emergency medical evaluation as soon as possible.
Do not ignore early symptoms.
Be aware of numbness and/or tingling of the face, arm, or leg.A person having a stroke may notice sudden weakness, numbness, tingling, or paralysis developing, most likely on one side of the body and not the other.
Watch for trouble speaking.One of the hallmark signs of a stroke can be trouble speaking.
Notice changes in balance and coordination.A person experiencing a stroke may begin to feel unsteady while walking, or have a sudden onset of dizziness.
Observe any visual changes.If a person is having any visual disturbances, including blurred vision, double vision, or blackened vision in one or both eyes, it may be a sign of a stroke.It is important to understand that the symptoms of a stroke all depend upon which area of the brain has reduced (or cut off) blood supply - the area that is affected is what will lead to specific symptoms.
Look for a facial droop.If you believe you may be having a stroke, stand in front of a mirror and try to smile.
Note that any of these symptoms may indicate a possible stroke.One of the key features of strokes are that they present differently in different cases.
Consider it a medical emergency if you experience the worst headache of your life.There is one subtype of stroke, called an SAH (subarachnoid hemorrhage), that presents as a "thunderclap headache," which is a sudden onset of the worst headache of your life.
Record the duration of symptoms.If you notice any signs or symptoms that are worrisome for a stroke, you should seek medical attention immediately.
Go to the hospital immediately if you show any sudden, unexplained signs of a stroke.If you are experiencing signs and symptoms indicative of a stroke, get someone to drive you to the hospital or call 911 immediately.
Ask your doctor for TPA.TPA stands for tissue plasminogen activator.
Be aware of mini-strokes.There are occasions when a first time stroke, or TIA (which stands for "transient ischemic attack," otherwise known as a "mini-stroke"), is not too severe and does not cause too much lasting damage.
Understand some of the underlying causes of strokes in young adults.Note that if you are a young adult, you are more likely to have an underlying disease that could be responsible for your stroke.
Follow up and check for underlying conditions.Particularly if you are young, your doctor can order tests and investigations to determine if you have an underlying condition, and can treat it accordingly if one is found.
Reduce your risk of having a stroke as a young adult.While many of the causes of stroke in young adults relate to more unusual medical conditions or conditions you are born with, you can still decrease your chances of having a stroke by modifying lifestyle-related risk factors.