
Make sure you know that the pump is actually your problem.
Obtain a new pump.
Turn off the power to your pump at the main circuit breaker.
Turn on a hose or faucet to release all the pressure from holding tanks or pressure tanks by letting the water drain out.
Use a plumber's wrench to take off the inlet and outlet ports on the old well pump.

,
Unscrew the wires going to the pressure switch on the old jet pump with a screwdriver.

,
Remove the old pump.

,
Apply Teflon piping tape on the threads of the outlet and inlet pipes, wrapping tape around each pipe at least 5 times to get a proper seal.
Install the new pump, following manufacturer's instructions.
Connect the wires to the appropriate terminals on the pressure switch of the new pump.
Prime the pump.
Turn the circuit breaker back on and test your new pump.

,
Assemble your materials.
Determine what type of system is used to connect the pump and its drop pipe to the water line going to the pressure tank.
Open the well cap (not applicable to well seal, Morrison head).
Determine the type of pitless adapter, the depth and location of it, and what you will need to adapt to it (not applicable to well seal/Morrison head).
Construct the T-handle and prepare to pull the pump.
Pull the pump out of the well casing with a winch or a derrick.
Take the drop pipe apart.
Follow manufacturer's directions to attach your new pump.
Chlorinate the well with a few(10 or so) chlorine pellets or a few cups of liquid bleach.
Reverse the process used to pull the pump.
Run the water in the casing over the top until it is clear, and you can no longer smell chlorine.
Turn the power off, unwire, reattach the T-handle and chain, lubricate the O-ring(s) of the pitless with petroleum jelly(do not use pipe dope), lower down the rest of the way, and reset the pitless.
Wire the pump back together, carefully stuff the extra wire back in the casing, replace the well cap and tighten the hex nuts to secure it.

,
Turn the power back on and test your new pump.