
Decide if you truly want to visit the Magic Kingdom.
Drive and park at Walt Disney World.Purchase your tickets at the Ticket and Transportation Center that the Magic Kingdom 's parking area thrusts you upon when you park.
Take the monorail or boat-line over to the park.
Enter through the turnstiles.

,
Walk underneath the Walt Disney Railroad bridge and you'll enter onto the concourse for the main Magic Kingdom portion of the park.
Look at the set up of the Magic Kingdom.
Take one lap around the park from Main Street USA through Frontierland, Fantasyland, and making it's way back to Main Street USA on the Walt Disney World Railroad.
Stop by the Town Square Theater to meet and greet with Mickey.

,
Walk through Main Street USA.
Walk around Main Street and see how many of the Disney windows the Disney Corporation set up in the Windows on the World exhibit.
Shop at some of the shops on Main Street.
Get a haircut from the Harmony Barber Shop.
Visit with the Dapper Dans Barbershop Quartet near the Barbershop on Main Street.
Travel along Main Street in other ways.
Stop in at the Main Street Cinema.
Visit with Walt at the Storytellers statue.
Enter onto the hub of the park, but don't cross through Cinderella's Castle yet.
Play the "Sorcerers of the Magic Kingdom game with the spell cards in the Fire Station to become the apprentice to Merlin who tries to take over the Magic Kingdom.

,
Eat down Main Street USA.Watch the flag retreat ceremony, if you can catch it in time towards the end of the day.
Bear right and pass into Tomorrowland.
Take a ride aboard Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin.
Watch one revolution of time at the Carousel of Progress.
Take a ride on the Astro Orbitor.
Take a ride aboard the PeopleMover for those wishing to take things easy.
Ride Space Mountain, if you need thrill in your life, and for those who don't fear riding intense roller coasters.This is one of the wildest roller coasters in Walt Disney World, so brave it if you can, otherwise pass.

,
Take a ride in a Disney-styled car at the Tomorrowland Indy Speedway.
Take in a showing of the "Monsters Inc Laugh Floor".
Consider going into "Stitch's Great Escape".
Walk into the area to the northwest of Tomorrowland called Fantasyland and the nearby New Fantasyland (or sometimes even referred to as Storybook Land).

,
Ride the Mad Tea Party if you want to ride a tea-cup styled ride.

,
Take a right past the Mad Tea Party and take a ride on the ever-popular Dumbo the Flying Elephant.
Take a ride on the Seven Dwarfs Mine Train in Fantasyland.
Take a ride on the Barnstormer in Fantasyland, if Seven Dwarfs Mine Train has a long line, or if you choose not to because it seems too rough.
Sit back and relax on either Under the Sea: Journey of the Little Mermaid or, if your kids are still quite young, The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh.






,
Ride the classic merry-go-round at the Magic Kingdom 's Prince Charming's Regal Carousel, and travel back in time to your childhood again.

,
Get to know the It's a Small World song as you ride the It's a Small World ride.
Take in a 3D showing of Mickey's PhilharMagic.

,
Take a ride in the sky at Peter Pan's Flight.
Take a ride at the Haunted Mansion, if you're up for a not-too-scary scare.

,
Pass into Liberty Square, which is nearby Cinderella's Castle and take a riverboat tour near Liberty Square on the Liberty Square Riverboat.





,
Watch an informative viewing of the presidents (including our most recent president, Barack Obama) at the Hall of Presidents exhibit.
Take in a showing of the Country Bear Jamboree, wedged in between Liberty Square and Adventureland.

,
Take a ride into the Pirates of the Caribbean ride, where you'll get to feel like a real pirate.
Don't miss the Enchanted Tiki Room, if the hot humid air is panting down on you.
Take a ride on the Jungle Cruise if you wish.
Fly a magic carpet in Magic Carpets of Aladdin.
Skip the Swiss Family Treehouse if you can.
Ride Splash Mountain, if you want a thrill of a lifetime ride on a log-flume type of ride.
Take a ride on Big Thunder Mountain Railroad if you want to ride a roller coaster that's less intense than Space Mountain but more intense than the Barnstormer or Seven Dwarfs Mine Train.

,
Take a walk back over to Cinderella Castle and walk through Cinderella Castle, if you can.
Catch a showing of Once Upon a Time, the Magic Kingdom's unique projection show on select nights, which is projected to the front section of Cinderella's Castle.

,
Take a peak at Wishes, the Magic Kingdom 's nighttime show.Walk back through Main Street USA and out the turnstiles.
Ride the monorail or boat again back to the parking lot for the Transportation and Ticket Center and walk back over to your car.