
Figure out real life signs that lead you up to the interpretation that says that your friend is wearing diapers.
Be a supportive friend.
Ask yourself some questions about whether you consider your friend to be a close friend or not?,
Prepare the first conversation.
Plan the conversation to be in a private setting without other people around.
Consider if they even need to wear the diaper at all or them wearing the diaper is in response to an embarrassment from some other situation.
Ensure that the wearer isn't feeling ashamed of wearing the diaper out in public.
Try not to act too sad for them or their situation, if they can't seem to get a different response from the doctor or something else turns out to be the case that was never thought of otherwise that makes the diaper a primary cause of other issues.

,
Expect to help them, when you notice that their diaper is showing.
Be around and ready to help your friend carry their diaper bag for them.
Make your friend aware that their diaper needs a change.
Be sure you are there to help console your friend, especially when they say they don’t want your help.
Visit the toilet together.
Put your mind on shopping or doing something else other than having them wear their diaper and showing their diapers off to you and their family.
Shop for plastic pants with them, if they so desire or need to purchase them for some reason.
Consider swimming, sunbathing, going to the gym, sauna, spa, get a massage or taking a public shower together.
Limit the talks about diaper commercials, visits to the toilet or any signs where urination might cause a discomfort in your friend, as these talks might want to make them wear their diapers more.
Have the wearer get more comfortable.
Prepare some differences when wearing diapers in summer time.
Find some alternatives your friend can use, such as cloth diapers, if they chose to wear disposables for some reason.
Help your friend keep a stash of diapers and changing supplies on hand, for when they come over to visit you.
Pre-plan all sleepovers with the friend who must wear the diaper.
Make sure that they can accept the fact that diaper changes when lying down may expose the fact that they wear diapers to more people than just their friend who knows more about them better.
Consider alternatives wake up schedules for your diaper-wearing friend.
Consider what you may choose to do to ensure they can sleep without problems of a leak during the sleepover night.
Consider some alternatives to the breakfast ritual after the sleepover night.
Decide if a shower is a good thing to do after the sleepover for your diaper-wearing friend.