
Locate the correct form.
Determine if you are required to file income taxes.
Decide whether you want to file income taxes, even if you are not required to.
Gather all information you will need to complete your taxes.
Fill in your personal information.The primary taxpayer’s full name and Social Security Number will go on the top line.
Fill in your address.
Decide if you want to check the Presidential Election Campaign box.
Choose your filing status.
Check exemption boxes for you and your spouse, if applicable, on lines 6 a-d.
List your dependants’ information in the appropriate spaces in section 6c.
Complete the right side of the Exemptions section.
Enter income included on your W-2 forms on line 7.
Fill in the rest of the Income section, lines 8a – 22.
Enter any adjustments to your taxable income on lines 23 – 35, the Adjusted Gross Income section.
Calculate your Adjusted Gross Income.
Start the Tax and Credits section.Begin by copying your adjusted gross income from line 37 onto line 38.
Decide whether you will itemize your deductions or take the standard deduction for your filing status.
Calculate the formula on for exemptions, which is listed on line 42.
Determine the amount of your tax.
Fill out the Credits section, lines 48 – 54.
Finish the Tax and Credits section.
Complete the Other Taxes section.
Complete the Payments section.Most filers will only need to fill in one or two lines in this section.
Calculate your refund, if applicable.If line 63 is larger than line 74, leave this section blank because you are not due a refund.
Calculate the amount you owe.If line 74 is larger than line 63, leave this section blank.
Complete the Third Party Designee.This allows the IRS to discuss your return with another party, a type of "power of attorney," if you will.If you do not want the IRS to discuss your return with someone other than you or your spouse, check the box beside “No” in this section.
Sign your form.By signing the form, you are swearing that the information on the form is true and correct to the best of your knowledge.