
Gather your components.
Flip the battery pack over so that the flat back is facing up.
Align the two servos on the end of the battery pack.
Affix the servos with your tape or glue.
Affix the breadboard perpendicularly on the open space on the battery pack.
Attach the Arduino microcontroller to the tops of the servos.
Put the wheels on the servos.
Attach the caster to the bottom of the breadboard.
Break off two 3-pin headers.
Insert the two headers into pins 1-3 and 6-8 on row E of the breadboard.
Connect the servo cables to the headers, with the black cable on the left side (pins 1 and 6).
Connect red jumper wires from pins C2 and C7 to red (positive) rail pins.
Connect black jumper wires from pins B1 and B6 to blue (ground) rail pins.
Connect white jumper wires from pins 12 and 13 on the Arduino to A3 and A8.
Attach the sensor to the front of the breadboard.
Connect a black jumper wire from pin I14 to the first available blue rail pin on the left of the sensor.
Connect a red jumper wire from pin I17 to the first available red rail pin to the right of the sensor.
Connect white jumper wires from pin I15 to pin 9 on the Arduino, and from I16 to pin 8.
Flip the robot on its side so that you can see the batteries in the pack.
Connect a red wire to the second spring from the left on the bottom.
Connect a black wire to the last spring on the bottom-right.
Connect the red and black wires to the far-right red and blue pins on back of the breadboard.
Connect a black wire from the GND pin on the Arduino to the back blue rail.
Connect a black wire from the back blue rail to the front blue rail at pin 29 for each.
Connect a red wire from the front red rail at pin 30 to the 5V pin on the Arduino.
Insert the push button switch in the gap between rows on pins 24-26.
Connect a red wire from H24 to the red rail in the next available pin to the right of the sensor.
Use the resistor to connect H26 to the blue rail.
Connect a white wire from G26 to pin 2 on the Arduino.
Download and extract the Arduino IDE.
Connect the battery pack to the Arduino.
Plug the Arduino into your computer via USB.
Press .⊞ Win+R and type devmgmt.msc.
Right-click on the "Unknown device" in the "Other devices" section and select "Update Driver Software.",
Select "Browse my computer for driver software.",
Click "Browse" then navigate to the folder that you extracted earlier.
Select the "drivers" folder and click "OK." Confirm that you want to proceed if you're warned about unknown software.

,
Start the Arduino IDE by double-clicking the arduino.exe file in the IDE folder.
Paste the following code to make your robot go straight.
Build and upload the program.
Add the kill switch functionality.
Upload and test your code.