
The first step to growing your own free form / neglect dreadlocks is to stop brushing, combing or finger combing your hair.
Clean hair dreads faster.
Sections should vary in size.
Separate any sections that are trying to join on to each other.
Your hair will shrink as it matures to become the thickness of where the section meets the scalp.
It can take one to two years for free form dreads to mature, depending on the length of hair to start.
Did you want to do the twist and rip method as a started method?,
First, let your hair section naturally for a couple of weeks, Let your hair tell you where it wants to be and who it wants to buddy up with.
The next step takes time, and gives you sore arms, so if you have a buddy to help you then all the better.
You will start to twist & rip one section at a time.
Grab a section and start to pull strands apart doing that in little sections, this is the ripping part.
Now after you have done 3 or 4 rips, you will divide that section in half and twist it, move one side over to the other side.Repeat step 11

,Repeat step 12

,
Repeat step 11 & 12 for the entire length of that section.
When you finish the length of your section, you can temporarily put on the black elastic bands.
The black bands should only be put on the bottom tips of the T&R sections, never ever up at the root / scalp area or you will cause weak points in the hair up there, breaking or damaging the strands which may cause your dreads to break off at those weak points as they grow and get heavier.
Do your entire head and then give yourself a pat on the back, have a partner massage your arms for you.
These sections need to start the journey of maturing, which is the shrinking and looping stage, again, to become the thickness of where the section meets the scalp.
Wash your hair in 2 or 3 days and do it every 2 or 3 days using the dread friendly shampoo.
The T&R method is only a starter method.
You will need to separate any sections that area trying to join onto each other or you will get congos forming.
This method will take 1-2 years to mature, it depends on your hair length.
Don't get discouraged when you get the frizzies at about 3 months, that happens with T&R, it will pass in about 3 weeks time.
The free form and T&R method teaches you something while they are maturing.