
Understand that drywall typically comes in 4'x8' sheets.
Know that thicknesses range from 1/4" - 5/8," with 1/2" being the most popular.
Pay attention to the composition of your drywall.
Prep the wall area so it will take your drywall.
Inspect for and repair hidden damage.
Inspect the insulation that is stapled to the studs.
Use triple-expanding foam to seal cracks and gaps on exterior walls.
Measuring out from a corner, measure your drywall so its end lands on a strapping piece or joist.
Run a bead of glue down each strapping or joist over which drywall will be placed.
Hoist the drywall panel up onto the ceiling, starting from a corner.
Drive five screws, in a single line, across the middle of the drywall piece and into a a single strapping or joist.
Continue gluing, hoisting, and screwing drywall in this manner until one row of the ceiling has been completely covered.
Mark the location of all studs using a stud finder.
Measure the wall against a piece of drywall to determine whether its end piece will fit in the center of a stud.
Run a bead of glue down each strapping or joist over which drywall will be placed.
With help, hoist the drywall on the wall, and using the drill, install five screws in the stud at the center of the drywall panel.
Use a drywall saw to make cuts along irregular openings such as arches.
Continue gluing, hoisting, and screwing drywall in this manner until one row of the ceiling has been completely covered.
Cut out any drywall that has been hung over window or door frames.
Mix your initial coat of drywall compound, or mud, to the consistency of sour cream.
Use a drywall knife to apply a liberal amount of mud to a seam.
Put drywall tape over the entire joint you applied the mud to.
Wipe off the mud around the tape with your drywall knife.
Inspect your recently taped joint for air bubbles.
For corner beads, consider using a corner tool that is available for both inside and outside corners.
Apply at least two to three more coats using a slightly wider putty knife for each application.
Don't forget to apply a swipe coat over each screw.
Repeat for each joint until all joints are taped.

,
Use a pole sander with drywall sandpaper to sand the hard-to-reach joints after the final coat has dried.
Use a handheld drywall sander with fine-grit sandpaper to hit everything else.
With a handheld light and pencil, go over any surface with compound on it and inspect for flaws.
Prime the walls, then sand again.
Don't over-sand.