
Gather your materials:

Empty, clean paper towel roll
Two 6-inch-by-6-inch pieces of aluminum foil
One piece of 7-inch-by-7-inch white paper (printer paper will do)
Two 1-foot-long pieces of wire
Masking (or some other non-conductive) tape
X-ACTO blade or wire strippers
Scissors;
,
Cut two 6-inch-by-6-inch pieces of aluminum foil.
Fasten one foil square around an empty paper towel tube.
Fasten the other foil square to to a piece of white paper.
Fasten the paper-foil square around the paper towel roll.
Strip the last inch of insulation from both foot-long wire pieces.
Bend the bare wire ends at 90-degree angles.
Attach one wire to the paper-foil tube.
Attach the other piece of wire to the foil on the paper towel tube.
Move on to your coils.
Gather your materials:

One toilet paper roll
Wire (most will do, 26-gauge enamelled magnet wire recommended)
Masking (or other non-conductive) tape
Sandpaper

,
Ensure that the toilet paper roll is free of debris.
Place two pieces of masking tape along the length of the toilet paper roll.
Be sure to leave a foot of wire at each end of both coils.
Start your primary, 25-turn coil.
Finish the primary, 25-turn coil.
Start your secondary, 90-turn coil.
Finish the secondary coil.
Lightly sand the surface of the secondary (90-turn) coil.
Bare the ends of the 4 pieces of wire sticking out from the coils.
Gather your materials (note that you can use scraps for the wood and metal pieces):

One piece of wood for the base (at least 8 inches wide by 12 inches long)
Two pieces of wood to hold the capacitor (at least 6 inches long, and roughly 1.5 inches wide (needs to fit inside capacitor))
One small piece of wood to mount tuning bar on (around 1 inch thick by 2 inches long will do)
Piece of metal for tuning bar (strip from paint can works)
Pliers to help bend metal
Screws to connect wooden pieces together
Screwdriver
Your homemade capacitor
Your homemade double-coil toilet paper roll
Masking (or other non-conductive) tape

,
Screw together the capacitor holder.
Attach the capacitor holder to the right side of the base.
Place the capacitor on the mount.
Attach the tuning bar mount to the base.
Make the tuning bar.
Attach the tuning bar to the tuning bar mount.
Fasten the coil to the base, in front of the tuning bar.
Gather your materials:Long wire for antenna (15 to 20 feet at least)
Germanium diode (1N34, can be purchased at electronics store)
Ear piece/speaker (even an old telephone earpiece will do)
Ground wire (any long wire will do)
Ground connection (metal posts or pipes that go down to the ground — for example, under your sink, radiator)
Wire for tuning bar (12 inches will be more than enough)
Earpiece

,
Know how to connect wires.
Connect a wire to a ground source to make your ground wire.
Tape the ground wire in place on the left side of the base.
Attach a wire to the tuning bar.
Connect the following capacitor and coil wires to the ground wire.

Tape the antennae wire in place on the left side of the base.
Attach the top, left end of the 25-turn coil to the antennae.
Fasten the germanium diode to the right side of the base.
Attach the following wires to the top diode wire.
Attach earpiece to the ground and diode wires.
Listen to the radio!,
Don’t over-sand your tuning coil.
Ensure that your tuning bar is not insulated.
Check to make sure you have a good-quality ground.
Check your antennae.