
Guard against following a church leader who may just take the label of Christian, and even become a preacher or priest as a way to organize their thinking and to be socially active.
Decide for yourself about your church leaders teaching the Biblical Gospel truth, as you yourself are accountable whether or not you are honestly taught and are learning that Gospel, and the power of Christ.
Observe possibly skilled church leaders who may not be called to the ministry as they may or may not be believers in the power of God.
See whether they believe and teach the Bible, but if they do not teach the Bible then that is a severe problem for the faith because they are disingenuous (not persuaded of the Truth of the Gospel).
Notice any leaders whose teachings differ from the Bible.
Leave them and find believers with whom to agree for church meetings, and prayer, etc.
Read the scriptures that say that such people will get worse and worse deceiving and being deceived themselves possibly by modern ways (not following the Gospel of the Bible) and by Satan.
Study about rebellion against God, denying Jesus and the Bible.
Beware of unbelievers who adopt Christianity seemingly to form a special group or a following as described in the Bible by the writer of the Book of Acts as "wolves" coming into the church and deceiving members as explained in the Bible:



...after my departing evil "wolves" shall enter in among you, not sparing the flock .
Decide whether some perverse teachings may be taught by wolves "in sheep's clothing" or from among your members -- three examples of perverse things: while Biblically and even secularly in modern times (until recently) marriage is only between one-man with just one-woman" and the immediate family was "that man and that woman and their children, of course a divorced person , widow or widower still has a family if she or he has children.
See whether they are teaching the most important points of the Gospel of Salvation which are summarized as salvation is "...in Jesus Christ: by faith, through grace, not of works, so that no one may boast,... yet you are foreordained by the Father in Heaven to do good works.