
After you get your first Pokémon, you want to go to Pewter City to get your first badge.
After you've gotten through Viridian Forest, exit and head north where you'll find Pewter City!,
After exiting the Pewter City Gym and go towards the path to the right of the city where the guy wouldn't let you go through.

,
Follow the path and battle all the trainers.
After you have exited the cave to the other side, keep walking to your right until you hit Cerulean City.
After you defeat Misty, go North of Cerulean City and fight your rival and all the trainers on Nugget Bridge.

,
Go East and fight your way through all the trainers.
As you keep going west, you'll see a house, go inside and talk to Bill where he will give you your ticket for the St. Anne cruise ship.

,
Afterwards go back to Cerulean City and look for the house with a policeman standing outside next to the door.
After defeating him, go South(be careful not to jump over the ledge or you'll have to go back around again)and keep going down until you see a small building to the right.
Go inside and go downstairs where you'll need to follow the path to the end.
You can't battle the trainers just yet, sadly.
Heal up your Pokémon and go a little South into the city and then go East until you see a little path in the water that looks a dock.
You will meet your rival on the ship on the second floor, so be prepared.
Vermillion City Gym is home to Lt. Surge, the gym leader of electric Pokémon!

,
After defeating Lt. Surge, you will need to go on to get your Rainbow badge.
This is Diglett's Cave, you'll need to go through here to get HM Flash.
After obtaining Flash, go back through Diglett's Cave to Vermillion and from there go back to Cerulean City through the Underground Tunnel.

,
After exiting the Underground Tunnel, go North and you'll notice a path to the East that has a tree blocking the way.
You'll soon come across a huge patch of grass, go South to where the Pokémon Center is and you'll notice to the West that there's a cave.
After exiting Rock Tunnel, go South until you reach a small town called Lavender Town.
Go West of Lavender Town and make your way past all the trainers.
After you make your way through, you'll notice the same building that you cannot get through that is now directly on your right.
Celadon City is West of where you exited from the Underground Tunnel.
Celadon City Gym is home to Erika, gym leader of grass Pokémon.

,
To go onto the next gym, you'll to get Snorlax out of the way to the Bike Road.
Once you have the Stilth Scope, go back to Lavender Town and go into the Pokémon Tower.
Go back to Celedon City and go towards the West and battle Snorlax.
Go back to where Snorlax was and go on through the building to towards Bike Road.
Fuscia City is home to the gym leader, Koga!,
After defeating Koga, you'll want to get the HM Surf and HM Strength before you continue on your Pokémon journey.
Complete your goal in Safari Zone by getting HM Surf and Goldteeth.
Time to kick some Rocket butt!,
After you defeat Team Rocket, those losers will run and you can battle the gym leader of Saffron City!,
The worst is over in your journey of getting your badges, now you'll want to your seventh badge.
Before you can battle the Cinnabar gym leader, you'll to get a key to unlock the gym door.
After you get the key, go outside and unlock the gym doors to your next challenge.
Now for the final badge.