
Obtain an iPad and a switch control device.
Get a pillow switch or some other switch, such as a puff sip switch.
Consider which app you will use for reading on the iPad.
Think about where you will access books to read on the iPad.
Plug the pillow switch into the input on the side of the switch control device.

,
Turn the power switch on the side of the switch control on.
Using the tip of a pen, click the “+” button 30 times.
Adjust the default text size for the iPad to a setting that is legible for the person who will be using the iPad.
Go to Settings, Bluetooth.
Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Accessibility Shortcut.
Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control > Switches, Add New Switch, External.
Adjust all your Switch Control settings to your liking.
Turn Switch Control on.
Take a moment to understand Item Scanning and Point Scanning.
If you are doing Point Scanning, practice changing to Item Scanning.
If you are doing Item Scanning, practice changing to Point Scanning.
Practice reading on an iPad in Caretaker Practice Mode, using a Screen Switch rather than a Pillow Switch.
Make sure all the settings are ready for use:


Make sure that Switch Control is on.
Get the iPad on.
Open an app.
Move to another screen.
Use a menu to move back to the Home Screen.
Hold the pillow switch down to move back to the Home Screen.
Make sure that Item Scanning is on.
Click on iBooks to open it.
Use the first submenu to get to Home, Point/Item Mode, or Settings.
Use the second submenu to get to Move Menu, Scan Order, or Groups.
Use the Move Menu choice.
Use the Scan Order choice to reverse the direction of the scan.
Use the Groups setting.
Use a PC.
Convert the DAISY files from Bookshare to the EPUB format.
Fix problems with Java, if they occur.
Download books from Bookshare.
Convert your books the the EPUB format.
Transfer your converted EPUB books to iTunes.
Transfer books from iTunes to your iPad.
Turn off Scrolling View.
Reboot your iPad.
Get out of a box.
Practice how to get out of a box.
Change from item scanning to point scanning.
Go to the first submenu.
Finally, turn Groups on or off if needed.