
Know who is at risk.
Watch for shortness of breath.If you have mitral valve regurgitation, the backflow of blood through your mitral valve will compromise effective circulation and oxygenation throughout your body.
Take note of your energy level.In addition to shortness of breath, the decreased effectiveness of circulation from mitral valve regurgitation can lead you feeling more tired than usual.
Tell your doctor if you are experiencing "palpitations" (unusual heartbeats).Palpitations are sometimes felt as unusually forceful heartbeats.
Look out for swelling of your lower legs, ankles, and/or feet.Another possible sign of mitral regurgitation is swelling of your lower extremities.
Be aware that you may present with no signs or symptoms.Many cases of mitral regurgitation have no observable signs or symptoms.
Have your heart listened to with a stethoscope.If you have mitral regurgitation, your doctor may be able to hear a heart murmur (the sound of blood flowing backward through your mitral valve) when he listens with a stethoscope.
Opt for a chest x-ray.If you present to your doctor with symptoms related to your cardiovascular and/or respiratory systems, she will most likely order a chest x-ray.
Receive an echocardiogram.The most accurate way to diagnose mitral regurgitation — as well as to assess the severity of the condition — is via an echocardiogram.
Ask your doctor for other investigative tests as needed.An echocardiogram is usually sufficient to diagnose mitral regurgitation and to delineate the degree of regurgitation.
Classify which type of mitral regurgitation you have.
Opt for "watchful waiting.
Go for repeat echocardiograms to monitor the status of your mitral valve.The key part of "watchful waiting" is regular monitoring.
Take medication to reduce symptoms and risk factors.While you are in the process of "waiting" (for if and when you will need mitral valve surgery down the road), your doctor will likely offer you some medications.
Have surgery on your mitral valve.The only definitive treatment for mitral regurgitation is to have surgery to fix the valve.