
Don’t raise your voice.
Try to keep your teenager calm.
Think before you speak.
Breathe.
Remove yourself from the situation.
Don’t be accusatory.Use the first person (I) instead of the second person (you) point of view when speaking.
Anticipate problem periods.
Don’t take their comments personally.
Change your perspective on the behavior.
Don’t ignore the behavior.
Be clear about your expectations.
Have regular, predictable punishments for bad behavior.
Follow through with punishments every time.
Don’t negotiate without a very good reason.
Assign productive tasks as repercussions.
Remove privileges when necessary.Be ready for an argument if you choose to take away something that your teen values, but doing so is the most effective way to demonstrate to your teen that certain behaviors simply will not be tolerated.
Reward good behavior.Don’t wait for them to upset you before discussing their behavior.
Bribe them into good behavior, but bribe thoughtfully.The research on bribing children for good behavior is a mixed bag: some argue that it’s a good way to develop positive habits, while others say that it results in children who will behave properly only when promised a reward.
Be a good listener.Your teenager’s problems might seem trivial in comparison to adult ones, but your child will be less combative with you if you demonstrate to them that you care about the things that upset them.
Be a good role model.Think about how you act around your child: do you roll your eyes or fight with your partner in front of them?,
Eat meals together as a family.Between work, homework, friends, and the internet and TV, it can hard to get all members of your family together at the table for dinner, but studies have repeatedly shown that regular family meals is a proven indicator of desirable behavior in children of all ages.
Coordinate your efforts with other adults.
Sign your teenager up for a sport.
Attend functional family therapy (FFT) with your child.
Attend attachment-based family therapy (ABFT) with your child if they suffer from parental attachment problems.