
Purchase your "LEGOLAND California" tickets online (or over the phone) before visiting the park, particularly if you are visiting from outside the US.
Preview the attractions in the park before your visit.
Drive and park to the parking lot for Legoland.
Enter through the turnstiles.

,
Get to know this area.
Become friends with the 9 foot tall, green (as of real pictures) dinosaur (though the LEGOLAND website says it is fire-engine red) who is completely made of Lego blocks at the front of the park.
Ride on Coastersaurus, if you love roller-coasters.
Have your child dig in the Dig Those Dinos pit.
Get used to this area, if you have children younger than 4 years old(for some rides) and about 8 years old (for others).
Get to see the revised tales of many fairy tales you might have told your kids on the Whimsical ride in Fairy Tale Brook.
Get your children to ride on the "LEGOLAND Express".
Watch your kids laugh on Safari Trek.
Look at a real movie set from the movie The Lego Movie in an exhibit called The LEGO Movie Experience.
Have your kids play in the fun park areas of "Water Works".
Walk through the walk-through exhibit of the "Adventurer's Club' to find the keys to the secrets to the ancient lands of Egypt and the Arctic.

,
Obtain a LEGOLAND Driver's License after you've driven in an official real electric LEGOLAND car at (LEGOLAND) Driving School.
Fly a biplane at the "Flight Squadron" attraction.
Get used to exhilaration of freefall in "Kid Power Towers".
Take a tour of a LEGO Factory in the LEGO Factory Tour building, and nearby, stock up on some of your missing LEGO parts arranged by color and type.

,
Get healthy with the Police and Fire Academy as you help pump levers to help put out fake fires and help stop bad guys with water guns that can shoot far distances.

,
Hop aboard a LEGO boat in the Skipper School and see what interesting LEGO creations can be spotted by your children.
See all of Fun Town in a different respect from above in whimsical metal railed LEGO creative transport vehicles in the Sky Cruiser attraction.
Ride the Sky Patrol attraction once.
Realize that this area is a seasonal-only area.
Ride the 'pirate boat' attraction, called Captain Cranky's Challenge, which swings in circles and back and forth in a medium cyclic speed.
Pass by the Treasure Falls attraction, which is their rather dull log flume ride.
Get completely soaked at Soak n'Sail.
Ride the log flume ride known as Pirate Reef when it is open (it is seasonal).
Shoot water from the cannons at the innocent bystanders or the other ride boats who decide to shoot water back at you at the slow water ride known as Splash Battle, as you take a look at some of the LEGO creations near this attraction.
Let the younger guests soak up some cool water to cool them off on Swabbies Deck.
Walk through the LEGO garden to see what LEGO creations have been made in the "Enchanted Walk attraction.

,
Let your kids draw out their energy in the Hideaways attraction.
Hope to not become dizzy on Knights Tournament.
Let your younger riders take part in their own medieval joust on Royal Joust.
Ride The Dragon.
Ride Beetle Bounce with your kids.
Ride the classic, whip-style, amusement park attraction called Cargo Ace.
Pass on Dune Raiders.
Explorer a Lego-themed medieval Egyptian castle in the Lost Kingdom Adventure ride.
Let your kids join in on "Pharaohs Revenge".
Ride the "AQUAZONE Wave Racer".
Ride the Scrambler-styled ride called "BIONICLE Blaster".
Build a LEGO car and test it out in the "Build and Test" exhibit.
Let your child play among many pounds worth of DUPLO blocks in the DUPLO Playtown exhibit.

,
Try to build and program a LEGO Mindstorm robot in the LEGO MINDSTORMS attraction.
Ride the LEGO Technic Coaster, a full-blown roller coaster.Get your family together and play in the Xbox WB Games Family GameSpace center.
Find this section.
Recognize that this section is the one section that makes LEGOLAND parks so famous to anyone and everyone who visits.
Look for historical figures and pop icons in the Block of Fame section of Miniland.
Look for lakeshore villages in the Coast Cruise section nearest the lake section of the park.

,
Visit Las Vegas' famous sights - LEGO styled - in the Las Vegas section of Miniland.

,
Look for some famous New England harbors and lighthouses in the New England Harbor section of Miniland.

,
Look for the famous New Orleans riverboat and French-reconstruction styled New Orleans house in the New Orleans section of Miniland.

,
Look at the sights of New York (the city that never sleeps).
Take a peek at the San Francisco section.
Come see some of Southern California's finest pieces in the Southern California section of Miniland.
Look into the elaborate work in the Washington DC section.
Look in the Model Shop, to see just what other ideas are on the horizon for the team, as they build some new models for the park.

,
Look for their older water park called the LEGOLAND Water Park.
Look for LEGOLAND's newest waterpark in LEGOLAND California: LEGOLAND CHIMA Water Park.Having opened in July 2014, this area will be adjusted over time.