
Contact the Volunteer Army Foundation (VAF).
Familiarize yourself with the rules.
Contact the VAF again.
Organize an Inaugural General Meeting.
Open a bank account.

,
Incorporate if possible.
Set up a Facebook page, Twitter account and a website.

,
Report every month to your advisor.
Hold events to ensure that the members can deliver services to the community.
Learn the best practice for an event.
Be well prepared in advance.
Contact your city council strengthening community advisor.
Identify an understudy in case you get ill at the time of the event.

,
Confirm everything two weeks before the major event and two days before the weekly project takes place.
Publish a story.
Develop an event day timeline.

,
Make students aware of what is within their responsibilities.
Let the person in charge speak.
Acknowledge volunteers and ask them to fill in the feedback forms.
Have the President thank the sponsors.
Review your event.

,
Start the recruitment campaign five weeks beforehand.
Receive and screen the applications.
Decide on the applications.
Hold the interviews two weeks beforehand.
Alert the President at least one week beforehand.
Give out the other roles at the AGM.
Use Facebook.
Ensure that photos are taken at all projects.
Respond to all messages.
Don’t like your own posts.
Use Twitter.
Tell sponsors about SVA mission and project(s) in a sponsorship letter.
Explain the benefits of your projects and what the specific outcomes will be.
Give potential sponsors a detailed budget so they can see exactly where their money goes.

,
Consider what your sponsors get out of the event.
Remember that you are not begging!,
Focus on building relationships–see sponsors as potential partners to address the mission of your organization.
Be creative and strategic in your sponsorship proposal, the competition is extensive.

,
Do sufficient research on the sponsors you want to contact.

,
Decide early on whether you'd prefer in-­kind vs. cash contributions.
Have the President ask the Webmaster to acknowledge the sponsors on the SVA website.
Have the President thank all of the sponsors after each project via an email.