
Watch for shortness of breath.One of the cardinal signs of left ventricular heart failure is shortness of breath, which often becomes worse over time.
Notice if your shortness of breath increases when you are lying down.In left ventricular heart failure, many people experience increased breathlessness when they lie down.
Tell your doctor if you develop a cough.Another one of the hallmark signs of left ventricular heart failure is a cough.
Observe for "palpitations.
Consider your energy level.Left ventricular heart failure is typically accompanied by fatigue and overall weakness.
Look out for weight gain due to fluid retention.When left ventricular heart failure progresses, it may begin to affect the right side of your heart as well, leading to concurrent right-sided heart failure.
Be aware of the progression of your condition.Heart failure tends to be a condition that gets worse, progressively, with time.
Receive a physical exam.After asking you about your symptoms, the next step is for your doctor to perform a physical exam.
Get a blood test.Another step when your doctor evaluates for heart failure will be to get a blood test.
Ask your doctor for a chest x-ray.A chest x-ray can look for signs of heart failure including fluid in the lungs and an enlarged heart.
Opt for an ECG (electrocardiogram).An ECG is a tracing of the electrical activity of your heart.
Receive further testing as needed.If the diagnosis of heart failure remains uncertain after all of these initial tests, your doctor may order further investigations.
Quit smoking.One of the ways to reduce your risk of all types of heart disease, including left ventricular heart failure, is to quit smoking (if you currently smoke).
Monitor your weight.Being overweight is one of the major risk factors for various types of heart disease, including left ventricular heart failure.
Reduce your cardiovascular risk factors.There are many conditions which play a role in overall heart health.
Talk to your doctor about treatment options.