
Build your success by planning the best strategy, understanding the importance of finding and using many good, individual tactics: Your strategy includes having a definite purpose, to ultimately beat the market realities.
Ask for "your" quantity price-break, as a particular tactic: you must have good credit and pay early to get billed for the skid price for your purchase of a carton or case or two (ordering less than a full skid), and pay carton/case price when boxes or packages are ordered (buying a broken carton/case), get the box/package price when you purchase less than a box/package (a "broken" dealer package), and get free delivery on a certain day each week to your location for less than their stated minimum order, etc.
Identify each such tactic as one source of advantage and exploit them one and all: There are many sources of advantage for an entrepreneur -- two of the most important being your location and special capability, such as equipment, patents, contracts, dealer or agent territories.
Position the organization appropriately: Focus on the markets and the marketing factors that synch with the nature, culture, size and technological advantages and constraints.
Do not follow the trends, but set one: Far too often it has been observed, that the strategies are woven around the existing market trends.
Base your team strategy on privileged insights into futures, not on past history: It is a common practice, to collect heaps of information on the history, do some arbitrary interpolation or extrapolation and then base team strategy on this data.
Plan to enable success, but respect the glorious uncertainties of the market.
Stage your strategy to have a correct balance of commitment and flexibility: Commitment (of resources) and flexibility (variations) are inversely proportionate and more often than not, they are malefic to each other (jumping in contravenes edging in, one toe at a time).
Make your strategy to be understood and "bought into" by your team: Your planning should be done in such a way that it is backed by a strong conviction in the team who must deliver on the plans.
Translate your strategy into an implementable action plan.
Be sure that everyone knows the timetable for what to do and being proactive, not reactive.
Align your strategy to the required resource allocation: That is the final -- but most important point -- don’t forget to make sure your ongoing resource allocation processes are aligned with your strategy so that when you do implement changes, you have the resources to fully take advantage of matching resources to the opportunities in your new niche, product and market.

