
Start early.
Understand the goal.
Get help identifying your best ideas for potential projects.As the time to start your dissertation work approaches, you should share your ideas with people who can help you: your advisor, professors with expertise in your field, other graduate students (especially those further along in the dissertation process), and any other potential sources of advice and wisdom.
Be realistic.
Choose something that truly interests you.
Do your reading.
Frame your project as a question to be answered.
Apply for funding as soon as you can.
Select your advisor carefully.
Choose your committee wisely.Your advisor can probably recommend faculty members to approach about serving on your committee.
Develop research strategies and note-taking systems.
Stick with your field’s formatting guidelines.You should familiarize yourself with the formatting expectations for your field as you begin writing.
Be flexible.Know that even if you have the most detailed, thoughtful plan imaginable, you might discover that your project is headed in the wrong direction.
Keep in touch with your committee.The dissertation process can be an isolating one: you’re researching and writing alone, sometimes for years at a stretch.You may find that no one is checking up on your progress.
Break the dissertation into more manageable increments.It can be overwhelming to start working on page 1 of what will ultimately be a 300-page (or longer) manuscript.
Write regularly.
Set a schedule.You may be able to set your own schedule, or you might need to work with your advisor to come up with an appropriate timeline.
Utilize your most productive times.Are you a morning person?,
Create a dedicated work space.If you try to work on your dissertation in bed or on the couch in your living room, you might be easily distracted.
Share your work regularly.
Take time off.
Stay healthy.
Work towards becoming a professional in your field.
Understand your degree-completion process.
Talk to each committee member individually.
Practice articulating your argument and its significance.
Get help with the final revisions and proofreading.
Remember that you are the expert now.
Manage your stress.
Take pride in your work.