
Decide if science is the right step for you.
Decide which science is the best for you.
Choose your university/college.
Research the application process on the university website.
Make sure that your application is professional and follows the guidelines set out by the university/college or application system.
If your application is accepted, dress in business attire to attend the interview, unless otherwise specified by the university/college.
Once you've been accepted, follow all the instructions your university give you and make sure you have all the information about the start of term.
Know when you need to be there, how your getting there and how much you can take.
Consider the weather and pack your clothes.
Find a house or halls as fast as you can.
Study your chosen science areas.
Try everything.
If your university doesn't have anything on (or even if they do), local bars and pubs may have theme nights to entice students and the student union bar (or equivalent student bar) will have welcoming nights and parties planned to allow you to mingle with other people from the university.

,
Fresher's week should be one or two weeks long.
Make sure that your friends are people you get on with, can study with, can have fun with, and you don't mind them seeing you throw up.
Don't start fights.
Don't do drugs every day.
If you want to do something, motivate yourself to do it.
Explore.
Turn up to as many lectures as possible.
Always take a notepad and pen.
Some lecturers can read you.
Listen intently.
Study each day.
Choose the study format that works for you.
Learn how to find articles.
Take breaks.
Get tools for your browser that stop you from accessing sites unless you've finished your work or that only let you access sites for so many hours per day.
Accept that your first assignment will be your hardest.
Always reference, even if you've only cited it once.
Get the assignments out of the way.
Be clear and concise.
Use several references, use more sources.
Complete a dissertation or research project.
Pick a subject that you can stay with for a year and a half.
Remember that you can change your topic.
Start as soon as your supervisor says they are happy to be on your application.
See your supervisor at least once every two weeks, even if it's just to tell them that you're working well and have done a certain amount of words towards the project.

,
Do at least a little each day, whether it's reading an article or typing out 500 words.
Start as soon as your supervisor says they are happy to be on your application.
If you're stressed, talk to your supervisor.
Make sure you know the university's marking scheme and regulations for handing in your dissertation.

,
Decide whether further study is for you.
Ask yourself key questions.
Create a WikiHow account.
Get yourself some water and block out distractions.
Put gummy bears or your favourite candy on the book after paragraphs.