
Decide who will create the template.
Write a description of your company or organization.
Prepare job summaries, if relevant.
Begin with the position title.The specific job title is important because it differentiates one position from another.
Leave room to specify the department (if relevant).If your company or organization is divided into multiple sections, then a job description should mention which department or other unit that particular position reports to.
Define the supervisor.You may find it useful to leave a section on your template to be used for detailing the supervision of a particular position, and/or the extent to which it is supervised.
Provide a job summary section.Think of this as describing the purpose of the position, and its role within your company or organization as a whole.A job summary will briefly acknowledge the fundamentals of the position, so leave space on your job description template to answer:What do you want the job to achieve?,
Create a space to describe essential duties and responsibilities.These might also be called “major functions” or “essential functions.”Whatever you call it, this section of a job description should provide a list of those duties that are associated with the position, no matter who fills it.
Consider leaving a space for “other” duties.If the exact duties of some positions at your company or organization depend upon the individuals filling them, then you might want to leave a space stating “Other duties may include….” This will give you flexibility to incorporate other duties and responsibilities based on a candidate’s experience or abilities.

,
Create a required skills section.Identifying a particular set of skills that are required to perform in a particular job can help individuals understand if they have the abilities and knowledge to complete its basic duties.Examples of skills include things like “Ability to use spreadsheet software proficiently” and “Effectively manage team of 5-6 interns”
Remember that skills may be “hard” (teachable skills, such as working with a particular tool, knowledge of a specific software program, or the ability to create a certain type of document or object) or “soft” (often called “people skills,” these refer to your ability to interact with others and to use emotional intelligence).
Set aside a space to list required qualifications.The qualifications section of a job description template is used to list any education, specific training, or certification that is require to perform the job.
Make room to describe any special physical or mental effort the job may require.For instance, you may want a space on your job description template to describe whether or not a particular position requires things like lifting heavy objects, sitting for extended periods, performing repetitive tasks, or traveling.

,
Leave a section to characterize working conditions.For some positions, it is relevant to disclose working conditions.
Make a space to detail the salary, benefits, or funding.
Distribute a draft of your template to managers and supervisors.
Use the template to input a few job descriptions that are already written.
Save the template.
Review and update the job description template on a regular basis.