
Understand how cattle can develop nitrate toxicity or poisoning.
Familiarize yourself with where plants accumulate nitrates from.
Understand how plants accumulate nitrates.
Know when plants are most likely to accumulate nitrates.
Understand which plants pose the greatest hazard for nitrate accumulation.
Know which animals are most susceptible, besides cattle.
Understand the safe levels of nitrates in most feeds for ruminants.
Know the signs and symptoms of nitrate toxicity.
Understand first that nitrate poisoning affects the system very quickly, so much that you may not be able to catch affected animals in time.
Use the signs and symptoms from step 5 in the previous section to see that you may have animals with nitrate toxicity.
Remove animals from the feed immediately.
Contact the veterinarian immediately.
If it's possible, move the animalto where they can be restrained and treated.
Slowly inject a 1% (or 4%) solution of methylene blue into the vein (intravenously) of the affected cow.
Release the animal, and move on to the next if there are multiple affected animals in the herd.
Monitor the animals closely afterwards for several days to at least a week.
Keep the your stock off the affected feed until you can figure out the best solution to limit-feed it without causing significant issues.
Understand how certain environmental and climatic factors affect nitrate accumulation risk.
Time harvest according to environmental influences to get feed that is low in nitrates and possesses the lowest possible nitrate toxicity risk.
Target harvesting crops when they are at higher maturity.
Harvest crops at low moisture to prevent heating.
Understand how moderate to heavy applications of nitrogen-rich fertilizer can influence nitrate accumulation potential.
Test your feed, preferably before you begin to feed it to your livestock.
Test your water that you give to livestock as well for nitrates.
Limit the amount of high-nitrate feed going to cattle, and feed with other non- or low-nitrate feeds in replacement of the high-nitrate feed.
Monitor animals.