
Gather rope, shuttles, spacers, and a crochet hook, from a local craft store.
Tie the first half of your rope to one of the horizontal seat poles using a clove hitch.
Lay the 1" spacer across the seat, perpendicular to your knot.
Wrap the rope around the whole width of the chair, then back to your starting point.
Keeping the strings from overlapping, wrap the rope around everything four more times.
After wrapping five times, individually wrap the seat pole to create a spacer.
Run the rope to the other side and wrap the first seat pole once to create a second spacer.
Slide the strings close together, making sure they don't crisscross.
Repeat the process of five horizontal wraps and one spacer until you cover the whole chair.
Tie a new clove hitch instead right after creating a spacer if you run out of rope and need to add more.
Use a crochet hook to weave any stray strands back into the weave.
Wrap the remainder of your rope onto your shuttles.
Work your large spacer into warp, passing it over every other group of five strings.
Turn the seat upside-down and repeat the step above with your other spacer, lifting the other sets of five strings.
Starting with the rope on the larger shuttle, tie the rope down to a seat pole with another clove hitch.
Using the shuttle to slide under the lifted strings, wrap the rope around the width of the chair five times.
Wrap up the seat poles after five rounds to create spacers.
Follow the same pattern as above -- five wraps, one spacer -- by sliding the shuttle underneath the lifted strings.
Use the crochet hook to manually weave the final few strands, as the weave is likely too tight for the shuttles.
Use scissors to clean up any loose threads, strands, and tails.
Lay the end of the rope over the top of your pole (the edge of the seat).
Pull the end under the pole and wrap it back around.
Cross the end of the rope over the standing line wrapped around the pole.
Tuck the end back under the pole as if double wrapping it.
Slide the end underneath the loop you just made.
Pull tightly on both ends of the rope to tighten it.