
Determine if the rusted item (small tool, bolt, dish rack, etc.),
Consider whether some of the rust can be scraped off or removed by scrubbing.
Note that the household item techniques offered here are useful for small household objects such as pruning tools, cutlery (not silverware), nuts and bolts, costume jewelry, parts of metallic furniture, etc.
Use lime or lemon with salt to make a paste.Use the amount of salt that will cover the rusted area, such as rust on a bathtub.

,
Cover the rusted area with the salt and lemon or lime paste.

,
Allow to set for up to three hours.
Wash with warm soapy water.
Use this potato trick on rusted tinware.
Peel a decent sized potato.
Dip a half into either baking soda or salt.

,
Rub the soda- or salt-coated edge of the potato over the stain on the tinware.
Rinse off and allow to dry quickly in a well-ventilated area.
Place the rusty nuts and bolts in vinegar.You can also use this method for small metallic tools, such as rusty pliers.
Remove after 3 to 12 hours.
Rinse the nuts and bolts or tools.
Make a paste from some baking soda to which you've added a small amount of water.
Spread a thick layer of baking soda over the rusted area of the item.Let it sit with the paste in place for several hours.

,
Scrub the paste off.
Use this paste to remove small rust stains from porcelain baths and basins.You can also try rubbing the stain with a pumice stone soaked in warm water first; this may be sufficient to remove the rust stain.
Make a paste using cream of tartar and hydrogen peroxide.
Use a toothbrush to scrub the paste into the rust area.
Rinse off when dried.
Clear rust stains off white clothing using lemon juice.Do not use this on colored clothing, as it can bleach the colored fabric.
Keep metallic items away from water.
Keep some pieces of charcoal or chalk in your toolbox.
Clean saw blades, garden snips/cutters, etc. after use to remove soil, dust, wooden shavings, etc.
Bring garden furniture indoors during the colder, wet months.
Do not wash cast iron or tinware in the dishwasher.This causes it to rust.
Do not store metallic items that are wet or damp.