
Understand the beauty and challenge of the JMT.
Research the trail.
Decide when to hike.
Decide which direction to hike.
Decide how fast to hike.
Decide who to hike with.
Plan your resupplies.
Plan a rough itinerary.
Plan your transportation.
Apply for and get your permit.
Carefully choose the "big 3": backpack, shelter, and sleeping system.
Choose your clothing.
Plan your hydration system.
Choose the rest of your gear.
Remember safety essentials.
Choose a couple of luxury items that will really enhance your trip.
Consider and plan for your personal needs in the wilderness.
Weigh your gear ahead of time and make sure it fits comfortably in your pack.

Choose a bear canister.
Plan your resupply details.
Identify your meal and snack counts.
Plan your menu.

Make and/or buy your meals.
Mail your resupplies and, if possible, confirm that they arrived.
Do a test pack with your bear canister to make sure it all fits.
Decide to train.
Be generally active.
Take progressively longer training hikes and incorporate a weighted pack.
Hit the gym to strengthen your hips and legs.
Don't overdo it.
Stay healthy and keep your body strong in the weeks before the hike.
Leave no trace.The JMT runs through a spectacular and fragile wilderness area and we are guests there.
Manage your water supply carefully.

Take care of your body, before small problems turn into big ones.
Know the symptoms of Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS), such as headache, loss of appetite, nausea or vomiting, fatigue, dizziness and trouble sleeping.
Study the map often, and always know where you are and what's around you.
Keep an eye on the weather and modify your plans if necessary.

Take side trips.

Enjoy the little pleasures.

Give yourself a few extra hours to enjoy resupply stops like Red's Meadow, Vermilion Valley Resort and Muir Trail Ranch.
Streamline your camp chores.
Don't worry!,
Celebrate on Whitney!,
Share your story.
Relive your favorite moments.
Give yourself time to readjust.
Start planning your next trip.