
Make sure that Kbounce is installed on your computer.
Play a few rounds, getting acquainted with the controls and how it works.
This article will be using the lower left corner as a start point in describing techniques, though the strategies will work at any corner, and possibly even vertically (though horizontal traps are much easier and more useful).

,
Place the cursor, with horizontal lines selected, on the fourth row up from the bottom, at least 8 columns away from the left edge.
For level 2, with 3 balls, start the corridor 4 additional spaces to the right, making room for the third ball to be trapped in the corridor.
For round 3, with 4 balls, a single corridor is possible, but tricky - so make two corridors, stacked, as shown here.
With the box-trapping technique, it's possible to get up to rounds into the mid-30s, though it becomes essential to trap balls in 2x2 areas and trap multiple balls in these areas to continue to clear 75% of the field.
By now, there are enough balls to make it almost impossible to draw a line all the way across the field with one try, but there are enough balls to draw a partial line that does not reach any wall, and this is what you're going to do.
Now draw a line that does end at the wall, on the 6th row from the bottom.
If you make a mistake, it's not a crisis - just build the trap in another corner, and build vertically to block off your first attempt.
As rounds progress, it gets pretty crowded in there.
That one square cannot be filled in a useful fashion, and the resulting corners disrupt the flow of the balls.
After the trap has been completed, you can relax - most, if not all, of the balls will fall into it without further intervention on your part.
If you get a perfect start, and the short wall is exactly 4 blocks long, the balls will eventually orient themselves into a pattern like this.
Wait for the longest space between balls in the minor line (the one that bounces off of the bottom corner of the short wall) and fill the first two columns to the right of the left wall (pretty easy with almost all of the balls busy elsewhere).
Once all of the minor line has bounced onto the new track, finish filling that column (you have to wait for a gap in the major stream, and start very close to the end of the short line).

,
The major stream will start progressing around the field, along the same track that the minor line took.
To finish the round, once all of the balls are stable in the trap, close off the tail, then the main body.
Draw vertical lines just outside of the space taken by the balls to close off the other areas.
Be warned: this does become something of a long march.