
Tell your doctor about how it began.One of the things to be aware of is that gout has a characteristic onset.
Consider that it may be a joint infection.One of the important diagnoses for your doctor to rule out is the possibility of an infected joint (or "septic arthritis"), which may have a presentation very similar to gout.
Be aware of the possibility of "pseudogout.
Take note of whether your joint self-resolves.An acute gout attack should resolve on its own within three to 10 days (although medical treatment may help to ease the symptoms during this time, to speed up recovery, and to prevent future gout attacks).
Inform your doctor if you have a personal history of gout, a family history of gout, or other risk factors for gout.Needless to say, if you have had gout in the past, your likelihood of having a recurrent attack is significantly higher; therefore, if you have a past history of gout, your current episode is much more likely to be gout as well (as opposed to being a totally new diagnosis affecting your joint).
Examine for the presence of tophi.In addition to acute (short-term) gout attacks, there are also people who suffer from chronic gout.
Observe the number of joints involved.
Get a blood test.A blood test can assess the levels of uric acid and creatinine in your blood.
Get the fluid in the affected joint aspirated.Your doctor may use a needle to "aspirate," or remove, some fluid from your affected joint.
Have the aspirated fluid sent for a culture.
Ask your doctor for an x-ray of the affected joint(s).
Use NSAIDs for symptomatic relief and to decrease inflammation.If you are indeed diagnosed with gout, your doctor will likely advise you to begin taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Try Colchicine.Colchicine is a medication that is uniquely effective at decreasing the pain caused by gout; however, when taken in high doses (which are usually required to combat an acute gout attack), the side effects of nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea are often too much to handle.
Opt for corticosteroids.Corticosteroids are a method of inflammation control (and subsequent pain relief) for those who cannot tolerate NSAIDs and/or Colchicine.
Take medication to prevent future gout attacks.In addition to treating an acute gout attack (or gout exacerbation, if you suffer from chronic gout), your doctor may offer you preventative medications.