
Get a suitable, see-through container, eg.
A first, easy trial project could be done with an empty container left after eating a "rotisserie chicken" such as sold at grocery stores.
In much of North America there are areas in the shade that are mossy.
Snap the top of the rotisserie "dome" down onto the bottom base.
If any plants or leafy parts are tight up against the very top or ceiling of the dome, they are too tall, and you may have to remove the top and redo after trimming them down a little.

,
The last step is to regulate the moisture and condensation inside you airtight dome.

,
You may notice that condensation forms almost right away, especially if you place the dome in much sunlight.
By regulating the amount of direct sun on the dome, you can reach a balance of moisture and light that is right for the plants or grass.
The secret to adding insects is tricky, and best done by cutting a trap door into the roof of the dome with a razor blade or exacto knife.
This will get back to the 3 liter (0.8 US gal) bottle, in a bit, if you want to try that.
You might have to buy and enjoy a large frosted cake to get one, but some stores will sell you just the container for your dome.
Cut open the 3 liter (0.8 US gal) bottle, and put some compost in.
Put some seeds of your choice in.
Make sure the plants come from the same part of the world.

,
Avoid planting any of the following:


Cacti (they don't regenerate fast enough for insects to eat)
Carnivorous plants (you don't want your CO2 producers to be eaten)
Poisonous plants (again, you don't want to starve your CO2 producers because of the lack of edible food)
Tall plants (what if they get too big?),
Water the seeds, and leave the top of the container off for a bit until the seeds germinate.
Get some insects from a pet shop or garden centre (crickets and beetles will do fine) but avoid ants, as they will have little to eat.

,
Put about 4 crickets or beetles in the container, water generously one last time, then put your lid back on and seal it with cellotape, making sure there are no holes.