
Ask a knowledgeable horse-loving friend to help you find resources and learn what's what, and offer to help out at his barn in exchange.
Learn about horse management.
Get the word out that you're looking for a horse.
Learn your local laws.
Build a network of horse people.
Calculate the cost of your horse’s upkeep for the most expensive part of the year (usually winter).
Don't forget to budget for:


Transport fee (if applicable) and the boarding cost per month
Deworming
Regular vet visits
Regular farrier visits (shoeing or trimming)
Emergency treatment
Riding lessons
Training
All appropriate medical check-ups and supplies

,
Find a suitable place to keep your horse.
Visit boarding facilities and ask about hours, cost, feeding schedule, and what you'll be expected to do.
Secure a space at a boarding facility.
Write a list of what you want your horse to be.
Remind friends that you are looking for a horse.
Search horse ads in local tack shops, vet clinics, magazines, and the Internet.
Ask around for a breeder with a good reputation.
Find a horse that's rider has a similar riding level to yours.
Make a list of things to ask the owner.
Contact the owner of any horse that meets your needs.
Check with competition bodies or hunts to see if the owner's claims of wins are credible.
Visit the horse at least twice.
Consider the cost, pros, and cons of each horse.
Give yourself time to think over the horse and if it really will work for you.
Ask if you can get the horse on trial.
Buy at the end of the competition season, in or at the start of winter, as prices will be lower (with the exception of hunters, which are best bought in spring or summer).

,
Ask if the owner will give you the tack with the horse.
Prepare to pay the selling price but ask if the seller will take a particular figure (10% - 20%) under the asking price.
Offer to let the owner view where you will be keeping the horse (optional).
Tell the owner if you want to buy.
Have the vet come and check the horse before you put full money down.
Pay in full and sign the Bill of Sale and any other paperwork necessary.
Insure the horse before transportation.
Find out what the horse has been fed, and prepare to slowly adjust the horse's diet over a period of two weeks to what you'll be feeding.
Prepare a safe area for the horse.
Transport your horse to your horse's new home.
Give your horse 3-4 days to settle in and don't put him in with other horses for a week or two.
Don't keep your horse away from other animals long-term.
Enjoy your new horse!,
Get a horse on loan.
Share a horse.
Lease a horse.
Work for riding.