
Find a bicycle in good working condition to modify.
If your bike doesn't have multiple sprockets on the cranks (the part that your legs spins), you'll need one that does.
Get a rear rack for the bike.
Find some batteries.
You’re going to need at least 1 amp hour per mile on a 36 volt system and wires to hook it all together.
Find a charger for your 24v or 36v battery pack.
Buy a motor with a bicycle chain sprocket on the output shaft.
Buy a "brushed" controller such as the YK42 from tncscooters.com.

,
Buy a "hall effect" throttle from the same place you get the controller.
Buy some connectors for your batteries that match the controller also.
Get some 1/8" steel metal plate or 1/4" aluminum.
Get three large, screw operated hose clamps that can attach to the tubes on your bicycle.1/8" single speed bicycle chain OR a grinding tool and 3/32" multi-speed bicycle chain

,Master link for the bike chain (1/8" or 3/32")

,Some small washers and possibly replacement bolts for the motor (it has 3 bolts used to secure it to a plate; if you use aluminum, they won't be long enough because the aluminum is too thick)

,
Wait for UPS.

,
When everything shows up, connect it together.
Here's how to link batteries in series (they're voltages add together, let's use 12v batteries as the example here): connect a wire from the + of one battery and connect it to the - of another battery.
Here's how to link batteries in parallel (they're capacities will add, let's use 12 volt, 7 amp hour batteries as the example here): connect the + of the 1st and second batteries together and connect the - of both batteries together.
Be careful when wiring up the batteries.
Turn the throttle.
After it all works, WRITE IT DOWN!!!,
Okay, it's time to get building.
Test things out by holding the motor in place and looping the chain around the crank sprocket and the motor.
If it all looks good, hold the metal plate up over the triangle and the motor.
Get out your reciprocating saw and start cutting.
Test mount everything again.
If you've got that all sorted out, go and drill the holes for the motor in the plate.
Now mount the plate and motor to the frame.
Once you have it all mounted, get your chain on around the motor and crank sprocket.
Now you have a bicycle with a motor mounted in the frame triangle and attached to the pedals.
Attach the controller either to the rack or to the tubing somewhere.
Mount the throttle.
Slide the throttle onto the handlebar.
Attach the wires from the throttle to the controller.

,
Attach the wires from the motor to the controller.

,
To test things out, turn the bicycle upside down (or otherwise ensure that the wheels aren't touching the ground, even if the bicycle shakes violently).
Attach the batteries semi-permanently.
Use zip ties to secure the wires from falling into the chain.
Unless you are very meticulous or lucky, there will be some chain alignment problems.