
Look for symptoms of pregnancy.
Have the pregnancy diagnosed by a vet.
If the pregnancy is unexpected, determine where the sow became pregnant from.
Determine if the sow’s age makes it a high risk pregnancy.
Determine if the sow’s body condition makes it a high risk pregnancy.
Determine if the sow’s or boar’s breed makes the pups more vulnerable to hereditary disease.
Pregnant guinea pigs are particularly vulnerable to illness as a result of stress during pregnancy.
Monitor her eating and drinking habits.
Give the sow a thorough check over twice a week.
Limit grooming during pregnancy.
Continue to exercise the sow.
Ensure you are providing adequate housing.
Remove any boars.
Remove other sows if you need to.
Clean the housing regularly.
Create a comfortable space.
Provide extruded pelleted feed.
Provide clean water at all times.
Provide quality hay.
Offer fresh vegetables every day.
Ensure you’re providing enough vitamins and minerals.
Increase the amount of fruit you provide in the last 4weeks of pregnancy.
Make sure you have everything you need for the birth.
Know that it is incredibly difficult to tell when a guinea pig will give birth.
From 60 days, check on the sow several times a day.
Pregnancy toxemia and calcium deficiency are most common in the last seven – 10 days before the birth.
Listen closely.
Be present for the birth.
During the birth, look out for signs of complications and be ready to call the vet if need be.
Intervene yourself with the pups only when absolutely necessary.
Check each pup is breathing.
Check that the sow clears away any signs of the birth.
Ensure that the sow is interested in the pups as first-time mothers, particularly young ones, may run away from the pups as if confused.
Expect that the pups are born alert and ‘ready to run’ as miniature versions of adult guinea pigs.
Leave the mother and pups alone for a couple of hours.
Weigh the pups and mother the same day as the birth.
Weigh the pups and mother again the next day.
Continue to weigh the pups and mother daily.
Get the vet to check the mother and all of the pups.
Continue to provide the enhanced diet.
At three to five weeks, the males become sexually mature, so sex the pups and separate them at this age.
The pups will be weaned at 21 days.
Reintroduce any sows you may have removed to the female pups at three to four weeks.
Realise how easily guinea pigs can become pregnant.
Separate guinea pigs into same-sex groups.
Neuter male guinea pigs.
Avoid deliberately breeding your guinea pig.