
Recognize the symptoms of a sore throat.The most persistent symptom of a sore throat is throat pain that may get worse when swallowing or talking.
Look for other signs of infection.Most sore throats are the result of viral and bacterial infections.
Consider getting a medical diagnosis.Most sore throats will go away within a few days to a week with simple home treatment.
Drink plenty of water.
Humidify the air.Dry air will only make your sore throat worse with every breath you take.
Drink lots of soups and broths.The old tales of treating colds with chicken soup are true!,
Chew your food well.Cut it into smaller pieces with a fork and knife before putting it in your mouth.
Make your own throat spray.
Gargle with salt water.
Use apple cider vinegar.Though there’s not yet a scientific explanation for it, apple cider vinegar seems to work much better than any other sort of vinegar at killing bacteria.
Consider baking soda as an alternative.Baking soda is alkaline, which can help soothe sore throats.
Make a cayenne pepper tea.
Drink licorice root tea.This is not the black or red licorice that comes as candy.
Enjoy drinking clove or ginger tea.Cloves and ginger are also known to have both antiviral and antibacterial properties.Even if you didn’t have a sore throat, you could just enjoy the pleasant taste and aroma of these teas, though.
Add a stick of cinnamon to any tea you are drinking.
Make yogurt popsicles.
Prepare the popsicle for eating.
Try making tea popsicles, too.
Make homemade lozenges for children over five.
Learn when to get immediate medical attention.Most sore throats will heal with with home treatment within a few days to one week.
Determine whether the infection is viral or bacterial.Viral throat infections generally don't call for any medical treatment.
Take antibiotics for a bacterial infection as directed.You have to complete the full course of your antibiotic treatment, even if you start feeling better.
Eat yogurt with active cultures while on antibiotics.