
Stretch to improve your flexibility.Warming up your legs, ankles and back beforehand will minimize the risk of injury.
Prepare a soft surface for your back handspring.A soft surface, like yard grass,mat, or bed mattress is necessary in order to practice your back handsprings.
Work on needle kicks.Needle kicks will help to train the force in your legs, which is needed to execute the initial flip backwards.
Use a trampoline for gymnastics practice.
Practice handstands.The cornerstone of a successful back handspring is a handstand.
Train your handspring using a vault board.Especially starting out, many gymnasts have difficulty mustering the strength it takes to launch their bodies in a flip.
Squat against a wall.Squatting against a wall is a common way to build leg strength.
Enlist the help of a coach.Sports coaches have the experience and training to notice issues with your technique that you or your friends might not pick up on.
Keep your back straight throughout the back handspring.Keep your back as straight as you can throughout your back handspring.
Launch yourself from a squatting position.
Keep your head straight and level.Keep your head straight throughout the back handspring.
Record your technique on video.If you record yourself executing a back handspring on video, you'll be able to see yourself do it from an exterior perspective.
Combine back handsprings with other techniques.Once you get the hang of traditional back handsprings, you can solidify your skill by combining it with other techniques.
Sleep at a regular time each night.Even if you're not actively training, you'll do yourself a disservice by cutting short on sleep.
Train with a partner.Training and exercising are far more satisfying when they're done with a partner.
Drink sufficient water.Water is vital for all athletic exercises, and it's especially important in gymnastics.
Believe in yourself.Although believing in oneself sounds like cheap advice there are few places it means more than in athletics.