
Read the basic instructions provided by the IRS at the top of the form.
Determine if someone is claiming you as a dependent.
Enter an allowance for yourself.
Include an allowance for your spouse.
Add allowances for each of the children or other dependentsyou support.
Determine whether you are the "Head of Household.",
Calculate your child or dependent care expenses.If you have paid someone for childcare while you were working or looking for work, you may be able to deduct it on your taxes.If you paid more than $2,000 for this care, and you intend to take this credit, enter a "1" in the blank for line F.
Decide whether you intend to take the Child Tax Credit.
Add up the number of allowances you have claimed on the worksheet and enter it in line H. You will put this number on line 5 of your W-4 form.For example, if you are married with two children and your spouse does not work, you would claim a total of four allowances: one for yourself, one for your spouse, and two for your children.

,
Read the statement under line H to determine whether you need to complete the other worksheets.
Fill out the personal information that is required.
Identify whether you are single or married.
Record your total personal allowances.
Consider whether you want any additional money withheld from your paycheck.
Read the exemption claim.
Sign and date your W-4 form.
Review your W-4 form on an annual basis.
Figure out if you need to use the deductions and adjustments worksheet.
Determine your estimated itemized deductions for the year.
Enter the appropriate standard deduction in the blank on line 2.
Subtract the standard deduction from your estimated itemized deductions.
Calculate an estimate of any adjustments to income.
Add lines 3 and 4 and write that number on line 5.
Write your estimated non-wage income in the blank on line 6.
Subtract the amount on line 6 from the amount on line 5 and enter the result on line 7.
Divide the amount on line 7 by $4,000 and write the result on line 8, dropping any fraction.
Enter the number from line H on your Personal Allowances Worksheet on line 9.
Add the numbers on lines 8 and 9 and write the total on line 10.
Decide if you need to use this worksheet.
Use the table provided to find the number that applies to the lowest paying job and enter that number on line 2.
Compare the number you just entered on line 2 with the number you entered on line 1 from your Deductions and Adjustments Worksheet.
Figure out how much additional money should be withheld from your paycheck.