
Have you recently reflected on this weird situation?,
The first thing to do is: try to make eye contact,even if only for a fraction of a second.
A safe way to open a conversation is asking a general question that is directly related to the environment where you are, or making a neutral statement and end by asking the other person’s opinion: Hi, what’s up?,
Asking somebody for advice or help is another great way for opening a conversation: Excuse me; What do you think of this t shirt, should I buy it?,
You shouldn't really think that your words must be the start of a flirtation.
Here are some examples of good follow-up lines which will help you to keep the conversation going: May I join you?,
Some communication specialists qualify the following follow-up lines as bad: So, what do you do for work?,
At all times, though : what matters most is how she responds.
It may be a good idea to stick for a while to the opening subject: It’s non threatening, less conspicuous and therefore raising less resistance It’s always a good idea to listen actively to what other people have to say; Allows for a strategical retreat: nothing has happened yet.
Only after you are convinced that you’re in, can you use one of these “pick-up lines” that are often mistakenly advertised as first-contact starters.
Because you want to build a conversation, it is good to end answers with a question: I think, … and you?,
An other interesting kind of questions to get the ball rolling are: probing questions: Interesting - Specifically what kind of … do you mean?,
Or reflective questions, which echo the statement the other just made.
Every now and then you should may also first summarize what the other just said, to show that you are interested, and then guide the conversation with a new question: "I see … is important to you, what else is high on your list of priorities?,
Overall, it is very important to balance the conversation.
When you meet new people, always try to keep the questions simple, fun and light-hearted.
Remember: People are usually very quick to form an impression about somebody they meet.
A first date is supposed to be lighthearted.
Here are some practical questions for finding out about your date: What is your dream job?,
A special kind of questions are these in which you offer a multiple choice: You're cooking dinner for a friend and you accidentally burn the main course.
Good questions to help you discover how how (s)he looks at Relationships: Tell me a little bit about your family.
The following questions help you to find out more about her hobbies and interests: What kind of music do you like?,
Fun Questions (which may run deeper than one might think at a first glance): What three things would you take with you to a desert island?