
Investigate the existing theories; gain knowledge of how people think about the thing or problem already -- it can only help.
,
Decide whether your theory contains a hypothesis.Learn all you can about the Scientific Method of Investigation, because, done properly, it comes up with practically irrefutable theories!,Ask yourself if your theory is widely applicable, by which it is meant that are there are many members in its set of potential users, and are there many members of the set your theory pertains to?,
Be ready to be disproved by scientists, lawyers, accountants, economists, ecologists, et al, because these people hold themselves out to be professional experts in some discipline or a rather thin slice of some discipline.Laugh at yourself, be ready also to be very surprised when it turns out your first guess leads to a better one, and so on, until you have it damn well perfect!,Go back and do the previous steps again, just to be sure.
You must be ready to become fully informed on your area of expertise.Gather all the facts you need to prove your theory and disprove the theories of others.
Test your theory against all the facts you can think of, which pertain under both normal and abnormal circumstances.
Work the math out for your theory whenever applicable and be thorough.Remember you'll want to publicize and spread your new truth, so it helps if it doesn't entail a lengthy explanation to justify it.
Try this test: There are two competing theories, T1 and T2.
Set subtraction equal to division, which is one person's theory, called the "Theory of Operator Neutrality, or Neutral Operations".
Find that the theory of neutral operations is useful in other ways as well.
Let Truth + Beauty = Truth * Beauty = Omniscience, let's say.
Make sure the Truth is on your side and then add Beauty to it, just enough so that it's sum and product with Truth are equal.
You can do it!,
Be teased if you like, by other people's great lil theories!,
Don't forget: in the statement of fact, T+B = T*B, both operators are subject to the Law of Commutation.
Be aware that there's another theory of interest, possibly.
You might ask a question about the Proof that 1 = .99999999....; if one performs that operation, 1 arrives at a version of the Base 1, which is repetitive in cycles, depending upon how many 9's were chosen to perform the division.
Note that the generalized Continued Fraction Expansion for the decimal portion of pi is different than it is for π itself, of course.