
Know when moshing is appropriate.
Start in a way that lets people get out of the way if they prefer.
Pick a good place for moshing.
To start moshing with your friends, you can probably clear some space by pushing each other around and jostling in good fun.
If you are not starting the mosh pit yourself, you will need to know how to join a mosh pit in progress.
When entering the mosh pit, expect you will be hit.
Make noise as desired.
Stay alert.
In good sport, make an effort not to use the hard or sharp parts of your body, such as your knees, elbows, or skull when making contact with other moshers.
Be careful when kicking that you don't hit anyone, and absolutely do not wear steel-toed shoes.
Stop moshing immediately.

,
Depending on the injury, the injured person may need your help getting out of the mosh pit, but if they seem able to help themselves out, it may be best not to interfere.
If you see someone on the floor, try to help them get up as soon as possible so they are not trampled.
If you see someone unconscious, you should not move them by yourself.
If people are continuing to mosh, you may need to form a sort of wall between the fallen person and the moshers while another person watches the person on the ground.
Ensure that your helper watching the unconscious person is also ready to catch or push you forward if you are falling backward.
If you are sent for help, talk to a security guard or building employee who can help control the crowd, as the person may still be in immediate danger, while someone else calls an ambulance.
If you are injured, stop moshing and try to exit the mosh pit.
Keep whatever part of you is injured closest to the exit, as less moshers will be coming from that direction.
If you fall down, it will be difficult to get up.
With your arms still protecting your head, get as high as you can, out of the direct path of kicks and knees.
Now that your head is a bit higher and you can see what's coming, it may be safe to take both arms off your head and manoeuvre your way up into a standing position.
If you suspect you are injured, or you are not sure, then make your way out of the mosh pit.
If you fall and cannot get up, protect your head and assume the fetal position.