
Relax and speak as confidently as you can.Candidates who are not able to participate fully in the conversation *may not achieve their potential band score.
Learn how the Speaking component is assessed: The aim of the test is to assess your ability to communicate effectively.The interviewer considers this ability in four different ways:


Fluency and Coherence:This measures your ability to speak without too many pauses and hesitations.
Be prepared to answer the questions in part 1 of the interview.
Sample questions: The interviewer will ask for general information about topics such as the following:


Your country of origin
Your hometown
How long you have lived there
What you do: work or study
Your interests and future plans

,
It is not possible to predict what topics may be discussed at this point in the interview; however, some familiar topics related to you or your country could include:


Family and family relationships
Modern and traditional lifestyles
Traditional or modern buildings
Tourism and tourist sites
Celebrations and cultural activities
Schooling and the education system
City and country living

,
Know what to expect.
Typical questions for this stage of the test might be:


What’s your name?,
Carefully consider what you know about each of the topics above.
Be ready for Part 2 of the interview.
sample:Describe a person from your youth who had a great influence on you:


You should say:
where you met them
what relationship this person was to you
what was special about them
and explain how they influenced you so much.

,
Before the test, you need to practice talking about topics for one or two minutes, making notes appropriate to the topic beforehand, to help you.
When you are giving your talk, take each point you have written and expand it into full sentences, but also add more new information.For example:


g/mother (or grandmother)could become:“The person who had most influence on me was actually my father’s mother, my grandmother; she grew up in the country and moved to the city in 1965 to get a better education.”and * intro.
Use examples from your own life.
Prepare for the extended conversation in Part 3.
Know what is being tested...your ability to:


give in-depth answers to questions about the topic
use the language of description, comparison and speculation
explain and justify your opinions, assumptions, predictions, reasons etc

,
Practice with sample questions: It is not possible to predict what questions will come up at this point in the test except that you can be sure that the topic will be related to your long turn topic.
Thus, the interviewer may start the discussion on the first related topic (Music in society) by asking you to describe how music is important to everyday life in your country.
Expose yourself to everyday topics as often discussed in newspapers or on radio and TV programs.
Be ready to use a good range of tenses and a variety of grammar, for instance, to speculate on what may be possible in the future.
Be prepared to speculate about the future:


I hope that …
It’s possible that…
I can see that …
If possible, I’d like to see …
We should plan to …
It might be that …
We can assume that …
Probably, …
I expect that …

