
Show that you have knowledge of the opportunities and challenges facing your client firm in upcoming years.
Realize that your clients are wise to how much easier it would be for you to make money from them by adding on additional services.
Achieve success in introducing new services to existing clients by having your client's best interest at heart.
Ask yourself these questions:


Does your firm aim to cross-sell simply to increase its fee income and profit?,
If the answer to any of these questions is ‘yes' then you may wish to stop and think about your current approach and the impact it is having on your clients.
Consider how you can you cross-sell without being seen as pushy and self interested.
Build the motivation to buy.
Understand not only the client organisation in depth but also understand each individual you are in contact with.
Don't cross-sell until you have earned the right!,
Be careful!,
Think like a client - the only way to cross-sell.
Make a really informed decision as to which additional service to introduce.
Let's say you have identified a compelling service offer for a specific client based around the thought process used in the university example above.
Build a high value promotional campaign.
Motivate your firm to do more.
Recognize it's not a perfect world but if you really want to be better here are examples of what some of the most successful firms have done to reduce the barriers:


Where possible, avoided multi-sites
Remove physical office barriers
Create common meeting/lunch areas
Organise market/client facing teams
Organise more internal mixed communication opportunities
Promote role models
Invest in educating people across the firm
Carry out more secondments
Develop dynamic intranets (that motivate people to visit)
Invest in intelligent knowledge management systems
Demand continuous cross-firm learning
Ensure senior people act as role models
Eliminate negative role models!,
Consider these simple actions:


Identify those key clients where you have truly earned ‘valued advisor' status
Bring a team together and simulate a senior management meeting thinking like a client based on the PESTEL analysis explained below
Identify one or two key services where you have a compelling offer (over and above any incumbent)
Build an appropriate high value campaign to earn the right to meaningful dialogue with the client (where they are highly motivated to meet)
Consider barriers in your firm and take actions to eliminate them
Consider again the actions currently being taken by your firm.