
Research your theme park topic on wikiHow, to ensure the article won't be a duplicate of a pre-existing article.
Decide on a title for the article and begin a new article with this title, if the article hasn't been written yet.
Establish whether or not this article will contain the necessary information that the article will require to become an excellent article for the reader to read and digest.
Get the article up and running in creation mode.
Get comfortable using one of the editors that are provided for the article to be written.
Start the article with an introduction.
Have the ability to keep a current map of the park (along with ride names) nearby when you type out your article.
Research in the background (in another tab or window) each attraction (if you haven't seen most of the ride yet from different angles) and write down some notes to remind yourself of what you saw along with the ride's name on a scrap piece of paper.
Develop a list of action verbs that correspond to type of rides that exist in the park.
Set the scene for the reader in the Steps section.
Pass on writing the blasé steps of bringing water and printing tickets or purchasing tickets and taking them to the park and get right to the bottom of the reason the reader will have arrived at the article from parking their car (or entering the parking gates of the park if any exist) and walking up the path to get to the main entrance and turnstiles.
Write about each item from your map and notes list as if you were to walk from place to place on them.
Give the reader the information they really require in the remainder of the Steps section.
Encourage the reader to stay in the parks to observe any special parades or nighttime fireworks that exist if any are shown in the park.
Give the reader some Tips and Warnings about the park.
Categorize your article.
Set up a "Sources and Citations" section for the article.
Provide step-by-step pictures of each Step in the article.
Fill in the edit summary, if it doesn't fill in automatically.
Publish your article.