
Do an audience analysis.
Coordinate the design of the user manual.
Do a task analysis.
Ensure your product complies with labeling and marketing clearance requirements.These requirements ensure that products are produced with user safety in mind, and will limit user exposure to dangerous conditions such as radiation and electrocution.
Decide on your manual’s layout.
Organize the manual logically.The user manual should proceed in a way that the user will find most beneficial.
Include necessary warnings.The general warnings or cautionary information should provide information about potential threats improper use of the product could incur, including death or serious injury.
Describe the device.
Include setup instructions.
Provide information about operation.This section is the main portion of the user manual and should provide concrete, detailed information on how to use the device.
Include a product summary at the end.The summary should go at the end of the manual, just before the index, in order to provide basic steps of operation.
Explain how to clean the device.If your device or product requires cleaning, explain how to do so.
Tell the user how to perform basic maintenance.If the product or device can be serviced by the user to correct performance issues, include numbered directions as to how the user can do so.
Discuss storage options.The user manual should, if necessary, explain how to store the product or device properly.
Include troubleshooting information.You might organize this section as a list of common problems and their solutions.
Read other user manuals.
Select your standards.
Use active voice.Active voice is a perspective in writing that explains things from the user’s perspective.
Write numbered instructions.
Start each step with an imperative.An imperative is an action-oriented verb.
Decide what kind of vocabulary you’ll use.
Ensure your translations are accurate.
Keep your writing brief.Instead of a few long paragraphs, use many short paragraphs.
Proofread the manual.A manual can lose credibility due to grammar and spelling mistakes.