
Educate yourself about adoption.Before you begin the process, take time to learn about the serious yet fulfilling nature of adopting a foster child.
Contact a local agency.Contacting your local public child welfare agency is one of the best ways to learn about the adoption process and to determine if it might be right for you.If you need help finding your local agency, look at the following resources:


Contact Adopt US Kids and they will help you get in contact with the best local agency.You can Also go here and click on your state for valuable information.Try searching the Child Welfare Information Gateway's National Foster Care and Adoption Directory.
Attend an orientation meeting.After you contact your local agency, you will likely be invited to attend an orientation meeting to learn about the adoption process.At the meeting you will learn about the children in foster care, the responsibilities of adoptive parents, the process of adoption, and how you can get started.Do not worry about making any big decisions at this meeting, it is only meant to give you an idea of what adopting a foster child entails.
Complete pre-service training.Pre-service trainings are almost always required before you can adopt a foster child.The trainings, which usually involve between four and 10 sessions, will give you a better understanding of what foster children have gone through in their lives and how important adoptive parents can be.These sessions will also help you create strong relationships with the people and agencies you will be working with closely throughout the adoption process.You can take a look at an introductory video here to get an idea of what pre-service training looks like.
Find your state's adoption application.
Fill out your adoption application.
Submit any other necessary information.
Allow your assigned social worker to complete the home study.
Gather and submit the required information.
Receive your written approval.
Register your family.
Find a child you want to adopt.
Wait to see if you are selected.
Allow your caseworker to assess your new situation.
Assess the written reports your caseworker gives the court.
Receive the court's approval.