
Look at the first blooms of the season with a welcoming and curious eye.
Pretend you are a landscape designer and let the dreams begin as you compose your garden in your mind.
Begin a practice session by first drawing each flower in pencil on a pad of good drawing paper.
Draw tulips as a U-shaped cup with a ragged top.
Begin with two circles for daisies, sunflowers, bachelor buttons, chrysanthemum, dandelions, and the black eyed Susan.
Look closely at the luscious blooms of the lilac and hydrangea because their large heads are made up of many small flowers clustered together, designating them as "cluster" blossoms.
Don't fear the more complex trumpet shaped flowers such as daffodils or jonquils because when broken into simple shapes you'll see two distinct ones;  a cone or trumpet in the center and a circle at the base.
Observe the single trumpet or cone flowers like the holly hock, lily, or amarylis.
Shrink down those large trumpet shaped flowers and cluster them to get the delicate bluebell, Lily of the valley, crocus, or grape hyacinth.
Look upward to the trees or sideways to the bushes to see flowering branches.
Doing this research to break down each flower and practicing drawing them is time well spent and will make using these flowers in a painting easier.
Begin your painting by letting whimsy rule the day.
Obtain a pad of watercolor paper, 11" X 14" size #140 weight.
Activate your paints, if they are the dry type, with a little water on each pad.
Use other tools.
Think of the delicate nature of your flowers as you begin to paint and dilute your colors to get the required transparency, using the mixing area of your palette.
Group flower types.
Vary your greens for leaves and vines by adding bits of yellow, blue, violet or even red to them as you work.
Bring extra, unexpected life to your garden in the form of woodland visitors: butterflies, dragon flies, lady bugs, a rabbit, a toad, or a squirrel.
Remember that pale blue will always resemble and make viewers think of the sky.
When complete, allow the painting to dry thoroughly.