
Turn off the power to the light you're replacing (if applicable) at the circuit breaker or fuse panel.
If there is no central light fixture, determine the center of the room, using one of the below techniques.
Obtain a FAN RATED BOX from home supply or electrical supply store.
After determining where you want to install the fan, assess your ability to get power to it.
After determining there are no obstructions, (wires, pipes, framing members, etc.),
If installing in a kitchen or dining room, and the existing power source you choose to utilize may be on larger, #12 wire.
Fish a #14-2* or #14-3* cable from a switch box that has BOTH a #14* unswitched 120 volt hot wire AND neutral wire to the fan location.
Use #14-2* cable if you want to either: A) power the fan (and light if applicable) on and off from one switch.
Use #14-3* if you want to: C) power the fan independently from the light by two switches in the same box.

,
Running #14-3* provides the ability to do A, B, or C wiring methods mentioned above, and as such provides the greatest flexibility with little added cost.

,
Using appropriate connectors where needed, route the cable into the fan box through the cable entry openings.

,
Secure the fan rated junction box following the manufacturer's instructions.
Determine if a special mount is required.
At the fan box: If you used #14-2 or #12-2, attach the wires to the fan by following the standard color coding scheme: switch cable white to fan white, switch cable bare (or green) to fan ground / green, switch cable black to fan black (AND fan blue if present).

,
At the fan box: If you opted for the #14-3 or #12-3 feed, you will have a switch cable black, red, white and bare (or green).
At the switch box: If using two wall switches or controls in the same box, all grounds (bare & green wires) connect together.
At the switch box: If using one wall switch, the wiring for the whites and grounds are the same as above.
If using a remote, connect the fan black and white wires directly to a power source that is always on (outlet or line side of a switch).
Cover each connection with a wire nut.
Follow the specific instructions of the manufacturer first.
Once you start mounting the blade/bracket assemblies to the fan motor, you may need 3 or 4 hands as it can be an awkward job.

,
The manufacturer’s instructions may say otherwise, but if the fan blades are less than a screwdriver's length away from the ceiling, it may be best to install the blades before hanging the fan.

,
Some fans use a "speed ring" which allows you to assemble the blades on the floor and then attach them to the motor after it has been installed on the ceiling.
Install the hanger bracket on the box with screws and lock washers.
Attach the fan canopy to the fan motor housing by screwing the mounting ring in place.
Hang the assembled motor unit from the two hooks on the mounting bracket.

,
Reconnect the wires, starting with the ground wire.
Slip the ceiling cover up to its full height and tighten it in place.

,
Attach the fan motor to the mounting bracket with the provided screws.
To access the wiring that powers the light, loosen the screws that hold the cap on the fan's switch housing bracket on the bottom.
Before wiring the lamp, however, install the adapter ring included with the fan kit bracket.
Pull the two labeled wires through the adapter ring, lift the lamp and make the wiring connections.
Power up and test your connection.