
Watch for shortness of breath.One of the main symptoms that mitral stenosis may present with is shortness of breath — in particular, waking in the night with breathing difficulties.The shortness of breath may get worse with exertion, and/or when lying down.
Watch for any unusual fatigue.In addition to shortness of breath, mitral stenosis often presents with fatigue beyond your normal level.
Look out for a cough and possible blood in your sputum.Mitral stenosis makes it more challenging for blood to pass from your left atrium into your left ventricle.
Take note if you are feeling episodes of dizziness or fainting.Due to the reduced effectiveness of circulating blood and oxygen distribution to key areas of your body (such as your brain), you may begin to feel dizzy, lightheaded, or faint if you have mitral stenosis.
Observe for swelling in your lower extremities.You may begin to notice swollen feet, ankles, and/or legs if you have mitral stenosis.
Tell your doctor if you are experiencing heart "palpitations" (unusual heartbeats).Heart palpitations may feel like unusually forceful heartbeats, or you may have the sensation of your heart "fluttering" in your chest.
Consider your risk factors.To diagnose mitral stenosis, your doctor will ask you about predisposing risk factors.
Have your doctor listen for a heart murmur with a stethoscope.Mitral stenosis often presents with a heart murmur that can be heard when your doctor listens with his or her stethoscope.
Get a chest x-ray.A chest x-ray is normally one of the first tests your doctor will order, if he or she suspects a lung and/or a heart problem, such as mitral stenosis.
Consider an ECG (electrocardiogram).In the evaluation of heart or lung problems such as mitral stenosis, an ECG (sometimes accompanied by an exercise stress test) can be helpful.
Receive an echocardiogram to definitively diagnose mitral stenosis.In order to confirm the diagnosis of mitral stenosis (or of any other form of valvular heart disease), an echocardiogram is needed.
Be aware that treatment for mitral stenosis may not be needed immediately.In many cases of mitral stenosis, surgery is needed eventually but not immediately.
Opt for medical treatment to reduce your symptoms.Although medications cannot treat or cure mitral stenosis directly, they can help to ease symptoms and to improve your overall heart and lung function.
Consider valve repair or valve replacement surgery.The only definitive treatment for mitral stenosis is to have the valve surgically repaired or replaced.