
Determine what kind of car you are interested in and specify the make and model in the Craigslist search engine.
Call the number listed with the car you are interested in.
Ask what state the car is titled and registered in, then type this information into your search engine and select the appropriate state DMV (Department of Motor Vehicle) website to see whether there are any special registration requirements in that particular state, such as smog testing, or roadworthy vehicle maintenance requirements.
Ask the owner if the car has a clean title (meaning that the car is paid off in full and has no liens against it) and what the odometer reading is, currently.
If the owner has provided you with accurate information up to this point, schedule a time to go and examine the vehicle.
For your safety and that of the owner, arrange to examine the vehicle in the parking lot of a supermarket or mall.
If you've noticed no problems with the vehicle while it was being driven, and the owner hasn't added anything under the hood (or otherwise behaved suspiciously) when they got out, approach the owner and introduce yourself.
If everything appears to be legitimate about the vehicle paperwork and the owner, ask for the keys and begin inspecting the vehicle.
As you inspect the vehicle, listen to what the owner is telling you.
If you see no problems with the outer side and underside of the vehicle, take the keys and open each door of the vehicle, trunk and hood included.
Now that the car has been driven and parked for a few minutes, proceed to the engine compartment and kneel down with your flashlight to look on the ground and underbody of the vehicle for any drips or leaks.
Ask the owner to drive the vehicle to the service station you've selected to examine the vehicle.
Talk to your mechanic openly in front of the owner, if possible.
Take the vehicle for a brief test drive to ensure that everything is in good working order and to your liking.

,
Upon returning, step away from the vehicle and owner with the excuse of making a brief phone call to your spouse or significant other regarding the vehicle.
If you have the money to make the purchase, finalize the deal and have the owner write you a receipt with his or her signature affixed next to the date.