
Open a new file.
Define window attributes.To begin, we must specify how large we would like the cat image window to be.
After specifying the window size, we may specify other window attributes, such as overall image quality and background color.
Define colors that you will use for the cat.
Here, the color data type can be defined as any name desired, then assigned an RGB or grayscale color number set or number.
Draw the ears using four triangles.
First, we choose the color we’d like the main part of the ears to be filled with.
Then, we specify the x and y coordinates for the points in the triangles that form the ear shapes:


triangle(50, 50, 50, 90, 90, 60);
triangle(150, 50, 150, 90, 110, 60);

,
Next, we choose another color to fill the inside of the ears with:


fill(earsnose);

,
And last, we specify the x and y coordinates for the points forming the triangles for the inner ear:


triangle(55, 55, 55, 95, 95, 65);
triangle(145, 55, 145, 95, 105, 65);

,
Since the triangle function takes three sets of x and y coordinates for the window in which we are drawing the cat, we type those numbers in the order that we want the triangle’s points drawn.
Draw the head in the center of the window.
Here we are using another fill color for the circle we will draw to create the cat’s head.
The next step in our drawing is to make the mean cat fangs.
Essentially, we are drawing three long, skinny triangles to jut downward from the mouth area.
Because we want the fangs to be partially covered by the cat’s nose area, we draw the nose area after we draw the fangs.
Here, we choose a fill color and draw two matching ellipses over the fangs at the specified coordinates.
Here, we choose a fill color for the nose, drawing a small triangle in the center of the cat’s face.
Next, we place the eyes.
Now, to draw the mean eyebrows, we type the following code:


strokeWeight(12);
line(90, 80, 70, 65);
line(110, 80, 130, 65);

,
Since we would like the eyebrows to be thick and menacing, we want to use a line function, and we want the line drawn to be very thick.
The last part of the cat to draw is his whiskers.
Notice that we must change the strokeWeight so that the lines aren’t drawn 12 pixels wide, as they were drawn for the eyebrows!,
Now that we’ve completed the cat drawing, it’s time to compile the program and run it.
It is a good idea, when creating your own drawings, to periodically check the progress of the drawing by saving and running the program throughout the programming process.

,
Enjoy the mean cat and be glad your own cat is very nice.

