
Rinse your car with a hose or bucket.
Clean salt and grime off your car with baking soda.
Remove tree sap with Denatured alcohol, Denatured alcohol also dissipates tar and sap well or you can use peanut butter.
Wash your car with hair shampoo.
Mix 2 teaspoons into a 2 gallon (7.6 L) bucket of water.
Use a clean dust-mop to reach difficult places.
Clean road grime off windshield wipers with rubbing alcohol.

,
Get wet your rag with rubbing alcohol, take the wiper blade in hand, and firmly pull the rag along the rubber edge of the wiper blade.

,
Wipe all surfaces clean with a damp rag.
Use toothpaste on stains.
Swap in rubbing alcohol if toothpaste fails.
Make a cleaner for the interior of your car with equal parts water and rubbing alcohol.
Try a solution of one part vinegar with one part linseed oil.
Sprinkle some baking soda in your car's ashtray.
Baby wipe the glove compartment of your car.
Apply homemade protectant to vinyl and hard surfaces.
Dab a small amount on your cloth.
Vacuum thoroughly and pick off all dirt and garbage possible.
Remove grease stains with cornstarch.
Mix equal parts vinegar and water in a spray bottle.
Blot your stain with a wet cloth to remove it.
Blast grass stains with hydrogen peroxide.
Soften scorch marks with a raw onion.
Make a general, heavy duty cleaner.
Make a mold and germ killing spray.
Refresh your car's air intake.
Mix one cup of water and one tablespoon of the hydrogen peroxide in a spray bottle.
Open doors and windows while running your car fans at full blast.
Make an air freshener for your car.
Hide dryer sheets under seats, floor mats, and in pockets.
Save it for last.
Forgo paper towels.
Wipe windows clean from top to bottom.
Make your own window cleaner.
Collect one cup of water, half a cup of vinegar, and a quarter of cup alcohol for your homemade window cleaner.
Spray your cleaner onto your windows.
Remove stubborn bug splatter with undiluted vinegar.
Use a Steel Wool (0000) to remove stubborn watermarks.

,
Gently rub the windshield with the steel wool in a circular movement.

,
Wash and allow to dry.

