
Use paper towels to remove as much of the vomit as possible.Pick up the bulk of the vomit with a couple of dry, folded paper towels, but take care not to squash the vomit particles down into the carpet.
Clean the carpeted area with cold water.
Mix 2 cups of warm water and 1 tbsp of table salt together.Now that the vomit is mostly gone, prepare homemade carpet cleaner to finish cleaning the carpeted area.
Add ½ cup of white vinegar, 1 tbsp detergent, and 2 tbsp rubbing alcohol.
Wet a clean kitchen sponge with the solution.
Use the sponge to wipe the rest of the vomit away.
Sprinkle the carpeted area with baking soda.. Now that the vomit is cleaned up, sprinkle the carpeted area with baking soda, completely covering the area you just cleaned.
Vacuum the baking soda once dry.
Use paper towels to remove as much of the vomit as possible.Pick up the bulk of the vomit with a couple of dry, folded paper towels, but take care not to squash the vomit particles down into the carpet.
Using paper towels or an old rag, absorb any remaining moisture.Start blotting and dabbing the vomit until the chunks and moisture are mostly gone.
Sprinkle the area with baking soda or corn starch.
Vacuum up the baking soda or corn starch once dry.
Apply an enzyme based carpet cleaner.These cleaners are readily available in the cleaning aisle of your local store, or in the pet supplies aisle.
Let the cleaner sit for 1-2 hours.
Keep your pet away from the area until it dries.You may even want to keep your pet in a different room for the time being.
Rent a commercial carpet cleaner.Some stains are too deep to remove with ordinary homemade or store bought cleaner solutions.
Purchase the recommended cleaner solution.Most manufacturers will recommend a brand of cleaner solution to fill the machine with.
Clear the area of any furniture or obstructions.
Fill the carpet cleaner with the cleaning formula.Most home carpet cleaning systems are water extraction units, or steam cleaners.
Test a small patch of carpet for colorfastness.On a small, inconspicuous location, test the carpet cleaner by using turning it on and making one small stroke.
Use the carpet cleaner to thoroughly remove stains and odors.
Refill the clean solution tank and empty the dirty solution as necessary.If the solution tank looks especially dirty, remove the tank and discard the dirty solution.
Empty both clean and dirty solution tanks once you are done.
Open windows or doors to speed up the drying process.If it is summer, you can also turn the air-conditioning; if it is winter, turning on the heater will help.
Return the machine to the store.