
Plan to spend 4 hours to complete the job -- between gathering the tools and cleaning up/putting everything back where you found.
Get the Prius HID headlights online.

Get the tools for the job.


Raise the front of the car by driving the car on top of 2–5 inch (5.1–12.7 cm) thick plywood or similar wood.

Get six cups to put the screws of the different parts removed from the car.

Remove the black plastic cover on top of the bumper/radiator.


Begin removing the bumper of the car.

Lie down under the bumper and remove a plastic protector held by 9 screws.
Remove the bumper protector (narrow black part under the bumper).

Bottom sides of the bumper: Remove screw right in front of both wheels (total two screws, one in each side of the car).

Remove clip on top of front wheels (positioned at about 2 o'clock position).
,

Partially pull out the wheel guard with your hands with help of a screwdriver and access the bumper screw hidden under it.
At this point you should have all the bumper screws removed.


It is time to pull out the bumper.

Each headlight assembly (the eyes of the car) is hold by 3 screws (on top, inside and outside).
Remove the cables that feed the headlight assembly.Take the headlight assembly to a clean table to change the HID light bulbs.
Remove the round black back of headlight bulbs.

Remove HID bulb holder.


Put clean gloves on.
Remove the old bulb; observe that the HID bulb fits only in the right orientation -- see grooves in its base.

Go back to the car, reconnect all the cables.Replace the HID light from the other side of the car,

Test both new headlights together.Screw down the headlight assemblies (3 screws for each).
Put the bumper back near its final location and reconnect the fog lights.
If you are not in a closed garage on a cold night you might want to run the car engine for 10 minutes to make sure you recharge the batteries.


Put the bumper back into position.Place the screws that fix the bumper located on top of the front wheel (behind the plastic protection).

Replace the plastic protection on top of the wheel.

Replace the narrow black part under the bumper (7 screws).
,Replace the bumper screws on the right and left under the car.


Place big black bumper/engine protector.On top of the bumper, place the 3 plastic screw clippers and the two screws with rubber bumpers.Replace the plastic guard on top of the radiator/bumper.