
Find a blogging platform you like.
Dedicate some time every day or two to blog about your College Program.
Begin at the beginning (a day or so before you even sign up).
Talk about your experiences filling in the application.
Talk about your experience with the web-based interview.
Make mention of your phone interview.
Explain how you are saving money for your College Program.
Research and blog about which housing you'd like to be in.
Discuss your journey to finding other roommates.
Discuss any special packing plans (outside of the normal items you'll have to bring such as money, food and drinks, electronics pieces and the like).
Talk about your trip to the area.
Talk about the bus ride between the airport and housing (if you took one).
Post about your housing/DORMS orientation without mentioning personal details.
Discuss meeting your roommates for the first time.
Talk about how you're settling in to your temporary new surroundings for the next few months.
Discuss your time with utilizing the Disney College Program busses, if you use them.
Report on how the first day's activities went.
Discuss your work assignment.
Discuss your time spent finding your costume in the Costume Shop.
Discuss your training days at length.
Detail more guest interactions as you move onwards from your training schedule into your daily work schedule.
Discuss any other details about the Disney College Program (such as with selecting the courses that are required for some schools to do for class/college credit).
Discuss at length what you saw and felt at the Graduation Ceremony.
Slow down towards the end of the College Program again and discuss your move out.
Talk about the bus ride between the housing and the airport (if you took one).
Talk about your trip out of the area.
Blog some more at home after your return if you still find the College Program still making an impact on your life.
Discuss if you will be signing up for any other internship opportunities on the Disney College Program panel any time soon.