
Short Introductory Summary - Give a one or two paragraph overview of the region or country, highlighting something unique or unusual about it and where it is geographically in your world.
Life, Society and Culture - This section should detail the culture(s) of the people who populate the region.
Law and Leadership - What type of government and law does the country have?,
Region Specific Groups and Internal Politicking - Provide details on influential, local interest or power groups in the area: a strong ruling family, an influential priesthood, thieves' guilds, good or evil mage cabals, druid circles, competing political factions, secret societies all make good ones.

,
International Influence and Politicking - Decide how much interest and influence the region has with the rest of the world, if any, and how the rulers, ambassadors and dignitaries go about achieving their goals.

,
Relations with Neighboring Lands - What interaction does the region have with its actual geographical neighbors?,
Trade, Commerce and Industry - What makes the country money?,
Wartime - Describe the military capabilities of the country or region.
Landscape, Weather and Ecosystem - Give an overview of the land itself, its appearance and demeanor.
Notable Geography - Provide detail on any outstanding geographical features found within the country's borders.
Notable Sites - Describe cities, towns, villages, camps, ruins, dungeons, castles, keeps, fortresses, blockades and other humanoid-made sites or land-marks.
Routes and Trails - Plot out main routes between cities, sites as well as other trails in the wilderness.
Regional History - Provide a rich history for the region, why the people and the land are the way they are.
Other Region-Specific Segments - Think on any other important details about the country not listed above and write them down.

,
Plots, Rumors and Current Events - Encounter ideas and adventure starters.
Character Concepts and Player Character Notes - List two or three types of PCs that are likely to come from this region, using the culture and history backgrounds as a guide.
Non-Player Characters - Create full stats for one or two prominent NPCs from your area and provide for them a background story, fitting it in to the regional flavor and history.