
Take the combination of gender and age into consideration.
Look for a family history of asthma.
Take note of any allergies.
Avoid exposure to tobacco smoke.
Lower your stress levels.
Stay away from the air pollution in your environment.
Take your medications into consideration.
Maintain a healthy weight.Many studies have found a link between increased weight and increased risk of asthma.
See a doctor even for mild symptoms.
Notice excessive coughing.
Listen for noise when you exhale.
Take note of unusual shortness of breath.
Be on the watch for rapid breathing.To get more oxygen in the constricted lungs, the body increases its respiration rate.
Don't ignore cold or flu symptoms.
Seek medical attention if you can't breathe, even without exertion.Normally, the shortness of breath caused by activity in asthmatics gets better with rest.
Check your respiration rate.
Take your pulse.
Look for a bluish tinge to your skin.
See if you're tensing your neck and chest muscles.When we breathe heavily or are in respiratory distress, we engage accessory (not usually central to breathing) muscles.
Check for chest tightness or pain.
Listen for worsening noise during respiration.In mild and moderate symptoms, the whistling and wheezing is only heard on exhalation.
Treat asthma symptoms as soon as possible.
Seek emergency attention for severe asthma symptoms.These symptoms suggest you're having an acute attack, and your body is struggling to draw enough air to function.
Provide your doctor with your medical history.The information you give should be as accurate as possible.
Submit to a physical examination.The doctor might examine some or all of the following during your exam: your ears, eyes, nose, throat, skin, chest and lungs during the exam.
Allow the doctor to confirm the diagnosis with a spirometry test.
Do a peak air flow test.This is similar to spirometry, and measures how much air you can exhale.
Ask the doctor to do a methacholine challenge test.
Test your response to asthma medication.Sometimes your doctor will forgo these tests and just provide asthma medication to see if you get better.