
Listen to other great mixtapes as inspiration and to get an idea of what you can be accomplished.
Decide on a theme or overall style of music you want on your mixtape.

,
Collect the music you want on your mixtape.
Organize the music by BPM range (beats per minute) so you can visually see which songs are within beat match mixing range of each other.

,
Start off with a strong energetic vibe and a medium to fast pace and continuously build the energy throughout your mix.

,
Save slower songs for later on after you have established a rapport with your listener.
Make sure every mix is flawless and as perfect as you can make it.
Be creative with your mixing, take out and bring in songs in various ways, scratch out of certain songs, mix in acapella and instrumental blends, create your own remixes.

,
Pay attention to how certain songs react with other songs.
Do a quick 3-4 song practice run to get yourself warmed up and test out your first few songs and test out your volume and equalizer settings.
Once you get started don't stop mixing until you just can't anymore, even if you mess up, it's good practice to keep going so you can at least listen to your first pass and then decide what you want to do different the next time.
Try creating it in parts.
Try it in several tracks.
An alternative to multi track recording is to create your remixes before making your mixtape.
Listen.
Go back through your mix and add in a few scratches if you want, also add in your theming if need be.

,
Add in your tags every few songs.
Make sure your name tags are also mixed in properly.
Along those same lines make sure your final output volume is as loud as it can be without distortion or skipping.
You can use a Compression to bring up the lowest points in your music to a level that can be heard a little easier but don't overdo it with compression settings as this will take away the natural highs and lows experienced with quiet parts and loud parts of your music.
Save all your settings then produce One master disc, listen to it on several different audio systems, including your car, your home audio and a few friends audio as well as your home studio or music studio's audio system to make sure the sound quality is where you want it to be.
Track and chop it.
When all the tracks have been created you can put them back together in your Audio Disc burning software and burn them onto your new Tracked out Master Disc.
You will also want to create One version of your mixtape that is just One super long entire track that you can use to send as a download copy for I-Pods and Mp3 players as well as for use as an Online promotional tool.

,
For your master disc you will also want to set your burning software to its slowest most accurate setting.
Listen to your master copy if there are small skips or glitches that are consistently in one spot you will need to go back and re-export whatever track they are on and then burn a new master disc with the new version of the fixed tracks.

,
Duplicate.
Have a professional design Having a professional designer design your mixtape is another ultra important step that will help you stand out from the non serious mixtape DJs and make sure you project a professional image with every mixtape you sell or hand out.

,
Market your mixtape.
Get out there and hustle, hustle, hustle.

