
Start a new game.
When you gain control of the character by being able to look around using your mouse/right stick, change the difficulty setting to Master.
Choose a race (see the details below and check out How to Create the Right Character for You in Skyrim).

,
Go through the part where you can't do anything but move and jump.
When you get the bindings off, 'favorite' any spells you want to use.
Loot all of the things Gunjar has.
There are going to be Imperials attacking you before long if you are a person who wants to use sneak hide in the corner left of Gunjar (where the rubble is).
There are going to be some more stuff where they came from.
The next room is going to have more people, so try to attack them using all the skills you want to use.
Advance to the torture room, which is occupied by the torturer and his assistant.
When you go forward there are more cages you can picklock and behind one there is a bag of gold next to a skeleton which might have money and has bonemeal which you can use for alchemy.
There is going to be a room full of Imperials if the two guys accompanying you didn't die in the torture room then they will probably die here one of them probably has a two handed weapon you can use.
After that, go on through to the cavern like parts of the keep and stay near the entrance and wait (that doesn't mean using the wait button) until the dragon breaks the bridge and go back and jump down.
There is going to be a fork where you can go left or right on the middle of the fork there is going to be a skeleton with some stuff.
Going on from there on the left there is a lifted up platform place with a waterfall next to it there is a skeleton and although unlootable, there is a reasonably good health potion and an iron dagger.
If you stay for a while, Ralof will give you arrows and a bow.
When you get outside you can either stay and talk to Ralof and everything or you can just run on looting everything in you path to the Standing Stones.
After that go along the path to Riverwood there is going to be some wolves, but they are easy.
After you are free from the weight, you can go get some extra money and experience (if you use a bow) by going talking to either Sven usually found at the Inn or just in the streets.
If you want to level up your smithing you can do this once by going to Alvor and asking if you he needs help then he will give you some stuff to do then after that you can sell the objects you make.