
Understand your purpose behind understanding your website audience.
Understand the different ways that the information might be inferred and how this affects the reliability of the data.
Understand the dimensions along which you'd like to get user data.
Understand the concepts of composition and index.
Keep in mind that composition and index are both relative: neither measure how popular the site is on the whole with various subpopulations.
Keep in mind the feedback loop between how you promote your website and what audience it attracts.
Keep in mind that the composition of your website visitors represents not just what you are doing on your site but also truths about people's preferences, society, and culture.
Compare your website against example websites for benchmarking, that match it as closely as possible along the most relevant criteria.
For benchmarking social media statistics, use tools like sociograph.io to get lists of top engagers with websites in your reference class.
Understand how the availability and reliability of data can be affected by the location your visitors are coming from.
Drill down using multiple dimensions to better understand behavior on your own website.
Use survey research (your own, or research already conducted by others) to better understand the numbers you see.
Keep in mind the limitations to the accuracy of measurement services.
Classify your website along a few broad criteria.
Retrieve your website's gender composition using your analytics tool (such as GA).
If you have an associated Facebook page, retrieve from FBI the gender composition information for the people who have liked and recently been reached by your page.
Compare your website's gender composition against benchmarks and against common sense.
Keep in mind the relative size of the male and female population in your target location and age group.
Retrieve your website's age composition using your analytics tool (such as GA).
If you have an associated Facebook page, retrieve from FBI the age composition information for the people who have liked and recently been reached by your page.
The main thing to keep in mind with age is that composition and index can paint quite different pictures.
Compare your website's age composition against benchmarks and against common sense.
Retrieve your website's location information using your analytics tool (such as GA).
If you have an associated Facebook page, retrieve from FBI the geographical locations (top countries and cities) for the people who have liked and recently been reached by your page.
For city-level data, concentrate on only the top cities by composition.
For country-level data, concentrate on the top countries by population.
Use some general heuristics to benchmark the locations where your website's traffic should be coming from.
Compare your website's top countries and cities against the top countries and cities of other websites of the same kind, using the following general rules based on the website's domain.