
Gather the required materials (see, Things You'll Need, below).
Mark the basic hexagon shape of the hub, or center of your table on your work table or a sheet of plywood.
Use the drawing on the table surface to establish the length of the members that will form the "band" (outer edge boards) of the hexagon.
Fit the ends together to form a hexagon with equal sides, then fasten the ends with 2 1/2 inch (6.35cm) galvanized or corrosion resistant wood screws.
Check to make sure each side is equal after the sides are fastened together by measuring across parallel sides.
Cut a two by four to fit between two opposite corners, making a 30 degree cut, at each end, off the corner on each side to the center of the 2 inch (5cm) way.
Fasten this 2X4 (5cm X 10cm) at each end with wood screws.
Cut the four spokes.
Fasten these spokes in by screwing the first two on one side through the center board, and the opposite by toenailing with wood screws through the bevelled end.
Check the finished frame to make sure it is symmetrical and all sides are equal.
Cut 6 boards for the standards that will support the table top on the base frame, and 6 diagonal braces to help support them.
Pre-drill holes where fasteners will attach the supports to the frame.
Fit each standard in place.
Place an 8 foot (243cm) 2X4 inch (5cm X 10cm) across two opposite corners on top of these posts and center it between them.
Mark the center of this board.
Fasten these spoke members in place on the center board and on top of the posts at each end.
Cut 2X4 inch (5cm X 10cm) boards 12 inches (30cm) long with 30 degree off each end (i.e.
Cut six 14 inch (35cm) 2X4 inch (5cm X 10cm), square on each end, and six 10 inch (25cm) diagonal braces with 45 degree angles on each end.

,
Fasten the 14 inch (35cm) boards on the end and flush with the bottom of the spoke boards radiating from the center hub of the upper section of the framework you have assembled.
Fasten the diagonal braces to these legs, again, making sure the assembly is square and tight-fitting.

,
Check the finished assembly to make sure all fasteners are holding tightly and everything is sturdy and sound.
Roll the framework off the assembly table so that it stands on the ground upside down from the assembly position.
Begin fastening the table top lumber on the hub assembly.
Center the first plank on the center line between two opposite corners, checking the distance from opposite edges on opposite ends.
Make a line parallel to the supporting frame about 3 inches (7.5cm) outside that frame and cut the planks off with a circular saw.
Finish laying and fastening the table top planks.
Place the seat boards on the 2X4 inch (5cm X 10cm) extending to the outside of the base frame.
Fit all of the seat boards, taking care to recheck angles and adjusting them so each fits tightly to the adjoining board.

,
Sand any edges that may have splinters or rough surfaces and round the corners with a sander to avoid injuries to shins as people seat themselves at the finished table.

,
Finish the table with an exterior sealer or weather resistant paint, then enjoy your new table.

