
Connect with your classmates and friends from high school.
Reach out to people you remember, ask questions and catch up online before the big weekend.

,
Connect with your closest friends and start coordinating your hotels, travel and the events planned.
Discuss with your closest friends the reunion event options available and what interest they have in attending those events.
Plan alternate adventures than what was organized with your oldest and closest friends from high school.
Pack your camera, the charger and film or memory cards.
Take your cameras and visit your old homes, favorite hang out places and those parts of town that make you nostalgic.
Take a notebook and record the best quotes of the weekend made by your friends.
Ask someone to put together a slide show of high school photos.
Bring a video camera and document you and your friends' return to your high school town.
Consider booking a hotel suite or a larger hotel room if many of your friends are staying in the same location.
Ask an old friend to be your roommate in the hotel if you are both single or if you're leaving your spouses at home.

,
Share your cell number and hotel room number with close friends as soon as you get checked in.
Take a group photo of you and your closest friends.
Skip a reunion event that doesn't appeal to you or your friends and plan a group activity together.

,
Leave the kids and spouses at home.
Travel with your friends.
Take plenty of wardrobe options in case other plans are made.
Take your laptop and post pictures from the weekend.
Set up a private group on a social networking sites and invite your closest friends.
Pack clothes that make you feel good.
Support each other in any weight loss goals for the reunion.
Be yourself.
Enjoy some of the scenery and sites around your former town or high school.
Talk to your closest friends about arriving a day early so you can spend time together catching up.

,
Follow the reunion web site and check the itinerary as soon as it is confirmed.
Avoid being the only one drunk at the party.
Swap contact information with people you are getting to know again.