
Pay more attention to your dog.
Start by paying special attention to one aspect of your dog's body language.
Move onto other aspects.
Remember that each dog is different.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is tentatively wagging at a minimal speed.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is wagging slowly and lowered.
Learn what your dog means when their tail tremors slightly, and held vertically erect.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is wagging rapidly and is being held very low.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is slightly below vertical and still.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is parallel to the ground and rigid.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is vertical or almost vertical.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is loose but is held a bit lower than parallel to the ground.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is low and swaying.
Learn what your dog means when their tail is tucked between their legs.
Learn what your dog means when their stance is Leaning forward on rigid legs.
Learn what your dog means when their stance is rolled over.
Learn what your dog means when they have one paw raised.
Learn what your dog means when their head/paw on back of the neck of another dog.
Learn what your dog means when the dog has it's head or paw on a human's knee.
Learn what your dog means when their eyes are wide open but alert.
Learn what your dog means when their eyes are staring into space.
Learn what your dog means when their eyes are blinking at an object.
Learn what your dog means, when their eyes are looking anywhere but at you.
Learn what your dog means when their eyes are narrow and menacing.
Learn what your dog means when their ears are standing straight up or inclined forward.
Learn what your dog means when their ears are pulled back flat against the head.
Learn what your dog means when their ears are pulled back slightly, but not tight enough that they are against the head.
Learn what your dog means when their lips are curled, their teeth are barred and their muzzle is wrinkled.
Learn what your dog means when they yawn.
Learn what your dog means when their mouth is pulled back without barred teeth or wrinkled muzzle.
Learn what your dog means when their mouth is open, and their teeth are barred, but there is no snarling.
Learn what your dog means when their mouth is pulled back, but their lips are tightly closed.
Learn what your dog means when they show signs of smiling by mouth.