
Identify and avoid the triggering substance.One of the key steps in treating contact dermatitis is to identify the causative agent, and to avoid further exposure to whatever it is that triggered your contact dermatitis in the first place.
Wash the rash with warm water and mild soap.
Use an emollient cream or ointment.Using a basic moisturizing cream or ointment can help to soothe the itchiness and/or dryness of your rash.
Avoid using too much soap, makeup, or personal cosmetics, if these aggravate your contact dermatitis.Many hand soaps contain harsh ingredients and, as such, may exacerbate symptoms contact dermatitis (particularly if your contact dermatitis rash is present on your hands and/or lower forearms).
Soothe your skin with cool, wet compresses to minimize irritation.Especially if your rash is crusting over and/or oozing fluid, wet dressings can be very effective.
Try having an oatmeal bath to reduce itchiness and irritation.Follow the instructions here for instructions on how to make an oatmeal bath.
Do not use topical antihistamines.Topical antihistamine creams may actually worsen contact dermatitis and further aggravate the area of concern.
Opt for a steroid cream.If basic self-care measures are insufficient to get your rash under control, your doctor may suggest an over-the-counter or prescription steroid cream.
Try medications that directly target your immune system.There are creams and ointments available that can directly target your immune system and help to repair your damaged (and irritated) skin.
Use oral corticosteroids for very severe cases.In the most severe cases of contact dermatitis — cases that do not resolve with a combination of self-care methods and steroid creams — your doctor may advise a short course of oral corticosteroids.
Ask your doctor for antibiotics if your rash has become infected.As your rash/reaction heals following exposure to the triggering substance, it is key to keep an eye on it and to monitor for any signs of possible complications such as an infection.
Recognize the signs and symptoms of contact dermatitis.Contact dermatitis is a skin reaction to something that your skin has been in contact with.
Familiarize yourself with the different causes of contact dermatitis.
Think back to recent exposures when attempting to diagnose the cause.
See your doctor to confirm the diagnosis of contact dermatitis, and to receive treatment as needed.It is especially important to see your doctor if the rash becomes very painful and uncomfortable, interfering with your daily routine and/or with your ability to sleep.