
Purchase your SeaWorld tickets online (or over the phone) before visiting the park, particularly if you are visiting from outside the US.
Preview the attractions in the park before your visit.
Pack water, snacks, money and most importantly your park tickets before you leave for the park that day!

,
Drive and park to the parking lot at SeaWorld SanDiego.
Look at the set up of SeaWorld San Diego as you enter through the turnstiles.
Take in the Explorer's Reef section of the park, just in front of you as you enter the park.
Watch Shamu (the icon of SeaWorld) at the Shamu Show (in One Ocean) at Shamu Stadium here.
Exit out of the stadium and head towards Dolphin Point and Otter Outlook (what you'll see in back of the Shamu screen several yards away).
Head towards Shipwreck Rapids, if you like whitewater rafting rides.
Pass in back and over top Aquaria: World of Fishes exhibit.
Look at some of the Washed Ashore Sculptures.
Take a right outside of the Washed Ashore Sculptures and head towards Manta and the Bat Ray Feeding area, if skyrides don't thrill you.

,
Catch feeding time at the Bat Ray exhibit, if you find yourself there at the right time.

,
Ride the Manta roller coaster.

,
Look at the park from the SkyTower.
Pass by the Sea Lion feeding.
Head up towards the Sea Lion and Otter Stadium.
Watch the flamingoes at the Flamingo exhibit just outside of the Mission Bay Theater.
Take in a few minutes of the theatrical performance (if one is showing) at the Mission Bay Theater.

,
Ride the Bayside Skyride at this point.
Take a look into the Freshwater Aquarium.
Walk through the Shark Encounter exhibit.
Take a look at the Turtle Reef just around the corner from the Shark Encounter.
Watch the SeaWorld's dolphin show called Dolphin Days at Dolphin Stadium.

,
Check out the turtles in the Turtle Trek exhibit.
Head towards Riptide Rescue, if you like "Scrambler-like" rides.
Skip the Nautilus Pavilion area unless you're attending a special event.
View the Penguin Encounter area of SeaWorld San Diego.
See the polar bears up close in the Wild Arctic exhibit.
Take in the funny show at Pets Stadium.
Head down towards the Journey into the Atlantis area near the tip of the bottom of the park.
Connect with several different types of animals at the Animal Connections building.
Have your kids play with Sesame Street and the gang in the Sesame Street Bay of Play.