
Don't be afraid to ask questions!,
Know that you are the most important part of your healthcare team.
Determine why you are being hospitalized.
Find out if there are alternatives you may want to consider, and if so, why hospitalization is preferable.
Find out the estimated length of stay.
Have your health history, including allergies, and your most recent medication list up to date, and make sure you and your family knows where it is.

,
Let your caregiver know right away if you have latex or iodine sensitivities.

,
Consider writing a Living WillLiving Will, especially if you are in for something serious and put it somewhere that you and your family know where to find it.
Have a small kit of essentials packed and accessible for an emergency or routine hospitalization.
Expect that your admission will be a busy time, with many tests, questions, and different people doing unfamiliar or (if you have done this before) somewhat familiar things.
Remember that from the time you come in the doors, you have the right to know what is being done and why.
Understand that you have the right to refuse any treatment, however, think carefully and only do so if you fully understand the complications that could arise from refusing care that has been deemed either necessary or beneficial.
Try to follow whatever regimen your physician, nurse, therapist has prescribed for you.
Ask your nurse for any information regarding your condition or surgery, if you have not already received it.

,
Remember, your caregivers are not mind readers.
Be aware that no matter how pointless or ridiculous some routine of policy may seem, they are in place for a reason.
Ask what medications you are being given, and if there are unfamiliar ones, ask for information on them.
Expect that it is possible, depending on risk factors, that you will be given medications or treatments to prevent stomach ulcers or deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
Ask what tests you are having done.
Find out what family members are entitled to know and what and how much information will be given to them.