
Keep in mind that many hurricanes are slow movers.
Be sure to gather food and water, because a hurricane may last for a while.
Prepare your fridge and freezer.
Be sure you are well supplied with any prescription drugs that you or your family take on a regular basis.
Put all of your valuables into clear plastic bags or high off the floor.
Stay on top of the news.
Decide whether or not you will evacuate.
Determine when and how you will evacuate.
Consult a map in accordance to the advice given on the news.
Pack your car.
Protect your home and yard and then leave as far in advance of landfall as is possible and prudent.
Have cash on hand.
Make sure your cell phone and extra cell phone batteries (get them if you do not already have some) are charged before leaving or before the power can go out.
Stay calm and collected, especially when you are around little kids who might easily get scared when their parents are stressed out.
Double-check for last minute details.
Take responsibility for your decision.
Take all measures to protect your home and property.
Move into your home or garage all pots, patio furniture, grills and anything else that can blow around.
Make a list of everything you will need if you are stranded and without power for two weeks.
Designate a "safe room in case your home's integrity is compromised.
Stay as far away from windows and doors from the moment of landfall.
Extinguish all candles once the rain and winds reach thunderstorm levels.
Keep a radio on as the hurricane approaches.
Double-check to ensure the supplies in your Hurricane Preparedness Kit are both well-stocked and fresh.
Recognize that your hot water heater contains 50 to 75 gallons of fresh drinking water.
Purchase a generator.
Cut down trees close to your house, car and any other buildings, or at very least trim their branches.
Perform maintenance on the car you will be evacuating with if it becomes necessary.
Buy a bicycle, if you don't already own one, so that you will have a backup mode of transportation.
Watch or listen to the news to learn when a hurricane is approaching.
Continue keeping in touch with your friends and family.
Keep a Hurricane Preparedness Kit packed (see "Things You'll Need").
Create a "take box".
Discuss and practice a disaster plan with your family.
Learn how to turn off the gas and power to your home and make sure that all tools needed for the job are easily accessible.
Ensure that insurance matters are kept up to date.
Make plans to stay with friends, if possible.
Remove dead trees and brush.