
Obtain information about ignition point gaps, firing order, timing advance and spark plug gaps from the car manual or other reliable source.
Buy replacement spark plugs, ignition points, ignition leads, condensers as needed.
Start with a clean engine.
Note where the No.1 lead enters the distributor cap.

,
Grasp each spark plug lead at the plug end as close to the motor as you can get and pull straight out.
Use a proper spark plug wrench to loosen every spark plug and remove them.

,
Check the spark plugs.
Scrub the plugs with a wire brush and rinse with gasoline/petrol or kerosene and set to dry if you wish to re-use.

,
Set a feeler gauge to the required gap and place between the centre electrode and the side one.
Remove the distributor cap.
Inspect the interior of the distributor cap for dirt, cracks, moisture and carbon tracks.
The ignition points will be held in with two screws.
Remove the ignition points, being careful to note the position and number of any insulating and other washers fitted.

,
Inspect the points for pitting and deposits.
Pack the angle where the points assembly slides over the cam on the distributor shaft (the follower) with a little blob of high temperature grease.
Look for the centrifugal ignition advance weights which may be partially visible below the baseplate.
Replace the points on the baseplate with washers in the correct places.
Rotate the engine clockwise with the spark plugs out and the transmission in neutral (looking from the engine rear)so that the follower is at the top of a shaft cam lobe.
Set a feeler gauge to the correct points gap and wipe it so that it is free of dirt and oil.
Replace the rotor cap and rotate the engine clockwise until the timing marks on the bottom pulley are opposite the marks on the front of the engine.
The spark plug fires as the points just begin to open.
Alternately there is one mark on the pulley and two or more marks on the engine.
Loosen the distributor at the fitting on the shaft below the body.
Connect a 12 Volt trouble light to a good ground and to the terminal outside the distributor where the condenser connects.
While the points are closed, the lamp will be out or glowing dimly.
With the rotor cap pointing to No.1 position, rotate the distributor slightly or use the vernier so that the lamp just lights.
Disconnect the tube to the vacuum advance diaphragm from the fuel system and suck on the tube.
Inspect the spark plug leads.
Replace the spark plugs, distributor cap and plug leads in the correct order.
Start the engine.
Have you replaced the rotor?

