
Recognize that many people suffer from low self-esteem.
Identify the thoughts, feelings, physical symptoms, and behaviors associated with low self-esteem.
Listen to your inner monologue.
Pinpoint the way you feel about yourself.
Look for physical signs that relate to low self-esteem.
Assess your behavior to see if your self-esteem is influencing your life.
Identify your negative thoughts.
Don’t be a nagger, putter-downer, or a name-caller.
Avoid being a generalist.
Fight the urge to be a comparer.
Shun the voice that turns you into a catastrophizer.
Remember that you are not a mind reader.
Commit to eliminating negative thoughts.
Differentiate between opinion and fact.
Start a self-esteem journal.
Become a negative thought detective.
Organize your list.
Find the root of each negative thought.
Identify feelings associated with each thought.
Identify your behaviors.
Adjust your thinking.
Counter the negativity.
Make a positive action plan.
Focus on your positive attributes.
Identify areas that you would like to improve.
Write down areas that you would like to improve.
Surround yourself with positive people.
Be more assertive.
Use the word “I” instead of “you.” Instead of saying “You didn’t take out the trash last night,” you can state, “I feel upset when promises are made and they aren’t carried through.”


The first statement can be taken as an attack and increase the listener’s defensiveness.
Listen and be willing to compromise.
Be persistent without getting aggressive.
Set personal boundaries.
Make time for yourself, even if you are a parent.
Choose healthy foods.
Eat more fruits, veggies, lean meats, and legumes.
Strive for a balanced diet.
Think about your food choices.
Stave off sweet cravings.
Get your body moving.
Stay well-groomed.
Go to therapy to help your self-esteem.
Try cognitive behavioural therapy.
Find psychodynamic therapy.
Understand low self-esteem.
Evaluate your self-esteem.
Know the potential effects of low self-esteem.
Pinpoint the root of your self-esteem problem.
Understand the low self-esteem cycle.
Remember how your parents treated you.
Recognize instances of shaming in your life.Shaming is a common parenting tool to help control the behavior of kids.
Identify abuse in past relationships.
Identify instances of poor performance in your past.
Understand the impact of life events on your self-esteem.
Assess your experiences of social acceptance.
Know that your opinion of your physical appearance is connected to your self-esteem.
Identify instances of bullying in your past.