
Get a do-it-yourself test kit.If your home was built before 1978 and you want to renovate it, you should test the area first to check for lead.
Scrape off several layers of the paint and test it.Choose a place to test and then scrape away individual layers of the paint so you can check every layer.
Consider hiring a certified professional to test for lead.
Consult the Department of Housing and Urban Development website.If you live in the United States, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) can provide a lot of information about lead-based paint, as well as guidelines for lead paint testing and removal.
Shut off all ventilation systems in your home.This include fans, central heat and air circulation systems and furnaces.
Block off all vents and openings with plastic sheeting.
Cover the floor with plastic sheeting.
Remove all furniture and other items from the area.
Limit access to the work area.
Wear appropriate protective clothing.Wear a long-sleeved shirt, long pants and washable shoes.
Wet down interior surfaces that contain lead paint.“Working wet” helps to keep the dust levels down.
Scrape off the paint.Wet the surface down again.
Sand off the remaining paint.
Use wet methods on exterior surfaces that contain lead paint.
Vacuum the area with a HEPA vacuum.HEPA vacuums, which can be obtained at any hardware store, come equipped with a certain kind of filter that effectively traps very fine particles and allergens.
Wipe everything down.Mix together equal parts of an all-purpose cleaner and water in a spray bottle.
Rinse the surface with clean water.Fill a bucket with water, dip a clean cloth in it and start wiping everything down, starting from the top and working your way down.
Spray the heavy duty plastic with water.Use the spray bottle to wet down the areas of the plastic that are contaminated with lead to keep the dust in place.
Vacuum the floor again.Use the HEPA vacuum to suck up all debris on the floor.
Wash and rinse the floor.Use the all-purpose cleaner mixture you used earlier to wipe down the floor thoroughly with a heavy duty paper towel.