
Purchase your Universal Orlando tickets online (or over the phone) before visiting the park, particularly if you are visiting from outside the US.
Preview the attractions in the park before your visit.
Pack water, snacks, money and (most importantly) your park tickets before you leave for the park on your visiting day!,
Plan to arrive at the park before it opens.
Decide if you truly want to visit the Islands of Adventure.
Drive and park at the parking garage located on the property of Universal Orlando.
Take the moving walkway towards Islands of Adventure (as opposed to either Universal Studios or CityWalk).

,
Recognize the setup of the park.
Enter through the turnstiles and into the first portion of the park called "Port of Entry".
Recognize that this area is more of a meet-and-greet area for all of your party to gather at or near the entrance.
Head towards the Incredible Hulk Coaster in "Marvel Super Hero Island" if you love roller coasters and ride this coaster.
Take in the "Storm Force Accelatron" ride.
Drop along from the top of the free fall area on Doctor Doom's Fearfall" attraction.
Take a ride with Spiderman on the ride called The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man.
Walk through some of the exhibits on Me Ship, The Olive.
Take the one ripwater falls flume ride in this area called Popeye & Bluto's Bilge-Rat Barges.
Take in Islands of Adventure and Universal Orlando 's one sole true log flume ride in Dudley Do-Right's Ripsaw Falls.
Look at the entrance gate to this land.
Make yourself feel like you are flying on Pterandon Flyers.
Search the maze of steps and other mysterious alleyways in Camp Jurassic to see what other things you can mysteriously find without too much help.

,
Head right for Jurassic Park River Adventure upon the rope drop at the beginning of the day.
Discover a wealth of dinosaur-inspired trivia inside the Jurassic Park Discovery Center.
Walk through and purchase a wand from the wizard at the Islands of Adventure version of the Ollivander's (Wand Shop).
Ride the less-energy enthralled voyage on the wooden roller coaster called Flight of the Hippogriff.
Take a ride through the castle.
Come back out from the castle and walk past Ollivander's shop to take on the metal roller coaster called Dragon Challenge.
Ride the train at the Hogwart's Express station at the Hogsmeade Station location (if you have the proper authority on your park ticket to cross into the other park).
Watch the Eighth Voyage of Sinbad Stunt Show to see Sinbad's action take place in real-time.

,
Talk to the Mystic Fountain to see what he replies back to you.
Walk through the water vortex tunnel called Poseidon's Fury.
Look to take in some of these whimsical rides/locations until the very end of your day, and make sure the kids are there to ride all of these rides with you.

,
Ride the trolley train ride at the High in the Sky Seuss Trolley Train Ride exhibit.
Ride the Caro Seuss - el if you love to ride carousels.
Ride the One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish ride.
Learn a little more about the Cat in the Hat's story on the ride by the same name (The Cat in the Hat).

,
Play with your kids in the walkaround exhibit called If I Ran the Zoo.

