
Install KDE Kubuntu.
Install Ubuntu Server;

Normally when you install Kubuntu you download one of the Kubuntu ISO images and make the CD and then install it on the system.
Update the Installation

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade -y

,
Install X-Server, KDM, KDE-Core Pmount and Synaptic;

Obviously we need to install the X-Server and KDE.
Use Synaptic To Install Core Software

Add the following to your sources.list file

# Remastersys
deb http://www.remastersys.klikit.com/repository/ remastersys/


We need some software installed to handle key factors like sound automount and many other things.
Remove the Server Kernel

There is one thing we have to clean up when using this install method, and that is the kernel.
Install Additional Packages

NOTE: You may want to use Remastersys to create a core system ISO image before installing more packages.
Create A Test Account To See Your Default Setting Changes

Use your current account as the working account where we do all the changes, editing and configuration changes.
Set Default Kicker Options

NOTE: If you plan on using kicker_kickoff_1, or any other menu system outside of the standard KDE Menu, in your distribution install it now before continuing with the rest of this step.
Select Your Default Cursor Theme;

Setting of the default cursor is much easier now.
Setup the Desired Default Desktop Icons

To setup default Desktop Icons (The icons every new user will see when they first login) simply setup icons on your working desktop, use the Kiosk Admin Tool and click on 'Setup Profile' Select 'Desktop Icons' and click 'Setup Desktop Icons' then click 'Save'.
Set the Default Icon Theme

To set default Icons in KDE so that all new (first time users) start with your selected Icon Theme right click on the desktop and select run command.
Set Default Background Image

Setting the default background image hand edit the following:

/etc/kde-profile/default/share/config/kdesktoprc
Here we are concerned with two entries:

Wallpaper=
WallpaperMode=


In my case the entries look like this:
Wallpaper=/usr/share/wallpapers/Jewell.png
WallpaperMode=Scaled


Kiosk Admin Tool will also do this but it's a bit more time consuming.

,
Set the Default Theme and Color Scheme

The absolute best way to setup and install a color scheme is to use the Kiosk Admin Tool.
Set the Default K splash Theme

You will have to create the file that sets the default K-Splash theme.
Set the KDM Theme

Unfortunately the kdmrc file on this setup is bad.
Login Manager Settings

Like KDM this is a global setting so it's a quick and simple one.
Set Default Sounds

You will have to create the file that sets the default sounds.
Clean Up For ISO Creation

Once you have tested and are satisfied with everything then remove and delete the test user account.
Create the ISO Image

Using Remastersys is pretty straightfoward.