
Select compatible components.
Assemble your hardware into a working computer.
Look for its BIOS welcome screen when you turn your machine on.
Know that the BIOS settings for every motherboard are going to be similar but not exactly the same.
Save the changes.
Install OS X.
Connect your USB drive to an existing Mac (ask a friend if you don't have one or make a virtual machine with Mac OS X) and open Disk Utility (in your Macintosh HD -> Applications -> Utilities folder).

,
Click on your thumb drive in Disk Utility and then click the Partition tab.

,
Click on the drop-down menu that reads "Current" and choose "1 Partition.

,
Click on the "Options..." button and select the partition scheme labeled "Master Boot Record.",
Give the thumb drive the name USB (which you can change later).

,
Set the drive's format to "Mac OS X Extended (Journaled).

,
Click the "Apply" button and then the "Partition" button.

,When Disk Utility has finished partitioning your disk, make sure the "Install OS X Mavericks" application you purchased from the Mac App Store is in your Applications folder.
Open UniBeast and click "Continue" three times, then agree.
Look for the option of Laptop support and Legacy USB support.
Wait about 15-45 minutes (it can vary) for UniBeast to do it's thing.
When UniBeast finishes, you'll have a hackintosh-bootable USB thumb drive.
Look for a welcome screen and choose your language when the OS X Mavericks Installer finishes booting.
Select the disk you want to use for installation and format it.
Set up to install the drivers.
Click the Quick Start tab and choose EasyBeast, UserDSDT, or DSDT-Free.
Select the Drivers tab to choose what drivers you'll need.
Skip the Bootloaders section, as you won't need to make any changes there.

,
Click the Customize tab to change a few options.
Click Save to save a backup of your configuration so you can load it up again later, when updating or in the event of a fresh install.

,
Click Build, then click Install.
Restart your hackintosh.