
Learn what roleplay is: Roleplaying is when a person takes the role of a character and acts it out with a partner taking the role of another character.
Decide which category you fall into:



Beginner: A type of roleplayer that is new to the process.
Design your character:  Make it your own

,
While you can spend hours working up every aspect of a character’s life and personality, you need know only enough to make the character believable to you.
I’ll go through the process they present, following the same steps they do and giving the same advice.
Objective: Another important question to ask regarding your character, one that’s also frequently overlooked, is: what is your character trying to achieve in life?,
The objective must always be difficult to attain.
Some categories of objectives (note that this list was originally intended for villains, though I’ve extended it some) you could find a more specific objective in:


Immortality
Wealth
Military Power
Political Power
Magical Power
Divine Power
Revenge
Self-Aggrandizement
Love
Peace
Security
Family
Patriotic

,
Motive: Next to the question of what your character is trying to achieve is the question of why.
Achievement - Someone with this need sets out to accomplish difficult tasks.
Affiliation - Someone with the need for affiliation enjoys being around people, enjoys being with friends and will accept people readily.
Aggression - Someone who needs aggression enjoys combat and argument.
Autonomy - Someone with the need for autonomy tries to break away from restraints, confinement, or restrictions of any kind.
Exhibition - Someone with this need wants to be the center of attention.
Safety - Someone who needs safety does not enjoy exciting activities, especially if danger is involved.
Nurturing - Someone with the need to nurture gives sympathy and comfort, assisting others whenever possible.
Order - Someone with this need is concerned with keeping their personal effects and surroundings neat and organized.
Power - Someone with the need for power attempts to control the environment and influence or direct other people.
Succor - Someone who needs succor frequently seeks the sympathy, protection, love, advice, and reassurance of other people.
Understanding - Someone with this need wants to understand many areas of knowledge.
I’d like to make a note here and say that choosing the obvious motive for certain classes isn’t always the most interesting way to go.
Personality: When we describe other people to one another we tend to do so by picking one or two particular traits.
For this step in particular I tend to use a table listing a large number of general personality traits.
Attitudes and Behaviors: Determining how your character regards and treats other people helps decide how to roleplay an encounter when other characters meet yours.
Tastes and preferences: A character’s tastes and preferences make them more distinctive.
Surroundings: Though much of your character’s surrounding will likely be determined by the game it might still help to give some thought to this.
Grammar, Punctuation and Grammatical Errors: Now in order to be literate you have to practice on these vital parts in literate role playing.
Find a nice site & start role playing!

