
Understand how Route 53 helps clients resolve DNS requests for your domain or subdomain.
Understand that Route 53 uses information about latency and availability from different parts of the world.
Appreciate that traffic does not flow through Route 53, so it does not track the actual traffic.
Note that Route 53 has a number of competitors and can be used with non-AWS-hosted architecture.
Understand that Route 53 can prima facie be used to do something like load balancing.
Understand that since Route 53 does not include any central point of traffic flow, there are things it can do that load balancers cannot do.
Understand that since Route 53 does not include any central point of traffic flow, it cannot do some of the things that load balancers can do.
With all these caveats, it is important to note that Route 53 and load balancing are complements, not competitors.
Understand that Route 53 and Content Delivery Networks (CDN) share the feature that they are massively distributed, with edge locations around the world.
Understand that Route 53 serves IP addresses, whereas a CDN serves content.
Understand that there is an interesting way of using CDNs as central points of traffic flow, namely, to accelerate the three-way handshake used to establish the initial connection.
Understand the concept of a public hosted zone.
Understand the concept of record sets.
Understand the health notions in Route 53.
Understand the "simple" routing policy.
Understand the "weighted" routing policy.
Understand the "latency" routing policy.
Understand the "geolocation" routing policy.
Understand failover routing policies.
Design keeping in mind the difficulty of switching.
Understand that Route 53 is a key part of a multi-region configuration.
Design to avoid being hit with latency-based routing failures.
Consider creative fallback approaches powered by Route 53.
Familiarize yourself with shell commands for better debugging.
Identify some online places to resolve DNS addresses from multiple locations and report the IP addresses.