

Select an appropriate product for your project.
Figure the amount of materials you will need to complete your application.

Complete the construction of the foundation and wall to be waterproofed, and allow all materials used to dry and cure sufficiently for the waterproofing to adhere and perform properly.

Excavate excess soil around the perimeter of the foundation if the waterproofing will turn down on its edges.

Clean the foundation of loose materials, dust, and any sharp objects that may damage the waterproofing or prevent it from bonding.

Clean the walls, as well, removing any splatters of mortar or concrete, and fill any voids.
,
Sweep the entire area to be covered with waterproofing one last time to be sure no dust or debris remains on it.
Check the materials you have purchased to do the project, to make sure all components are compatible, and that you have enough to complete it.

Use a moisture meter to insure the wall is dry before beginning application of waterproofing.
,

Paint on primer according to container instructions if a primer is required.
Allow primer to dry until tacky, but do not allow to completely dry, or it will not bond as well.

Cut a length of the membrane material to a length you are comfortable working with.
Lay the membrane on a flat surface (if available) and peel the paper away from the adhesive side to half the width of the sheet.
Lift the sheet of membrane so the covered section is in your hands with the folded protective paper in your grip as well, and carry it to the location you are installing it at.Always work from the lowest point or elevation upward, so that subsequent laps allow the upper membrane to lap over the lower, reducing the chance of leakage.
Press the adhesive side of the membrane against the primed surface to seal it on the edge you have positioned, and when you are confident it is right, begin peeling the remaining protective sheeting off the membrane, pressing the adhesive against the primed surface as you go.

Allow the membrane to wrap corners.

Seal any protruding items such as embedded bolts, pipes, or fittings with a suitable mastic, then cut a flashing piece of membrane to fit over the mastic to keep it in place.Smooth or roll out any wrinkles and air pockets, pressing the entire surface so it is bonded well to the primed surface you are applying the material to.

Place a protective, non biodegradable material over the finished membrane so rocks or other sharp objects won't damage it when the wall or foundation is back-filled.
Back-fill the excavated area with suitable fill material, compacting it in lifts (6 to 12 inch layers) so that settling doesn't occur later.