
You're now at your home camp.
You’re now free to explore the camp with the shoulder buttons goes left and goes right.Press and select the big black pillar with the button if you want to go to the world map.
The map screen is similar to the home camp, same controls.

This is the screen where you can select Patapons, weapons, shields, items etc.
Mission: Collect food.
Back home the Patapons will be celebrating around the fire with your food in the middle getting cooked.
Mission : The sword her

Move right attack and destroy the wall.
This is where you can make new Patapons.

You need one piece of meat to play.

Make sure you have an orange Patapon and an axe Patapon.
Mission: the bow hero

The best tactic here is to keep on attacking.

A Patapon comes running towards you chased by the Zigotron looks like they're in trouble.
Drum 3: Chaka New Sequence: = Defend
Voice: Chaka Chaka Pata Pon.
Keep moving forward you will notice a sign.
Go to the totem pole and press keep doing it and the totem pole will get bigger and bigger each time until a mole type thing pops up and drops an item and money pick them up and then go to the end of the level don’t quit.
Drum 4: Don Go forward and destroy the pillar, you will get a new drum don.

On the headquarters screen give your flag Patapon the rain item you do this by selecting the flag Patapon clicking on the big circle and then press x on the item.Make sure you reborn any dead Patapons.
Make sure you got a lot of Patapons with good gear because you will be fighting against lots of zigotrons.Again make sure to reborn any dead Patapons.
Select the new food stage.
Go to the heart shaped tree and reborn the Patapon.Flower mini game,
To start the game you need to give the farmer a tree branch.
For this mission you have to fight a big worm.Make sure you reborn you’re Patapons after the mission.You will now be able to make horse units.
if you do use horses then you will have to replace a whole squad for a horse squad e.g.
this mission is easy all you have to do is attack and destroy the buildings, towers and rocks you see.Reborn any dead Patapons.
This mission is a bit harder.