
Prepare the area where the work will be done.
Form and place any concrete foundations which will be below the slab.
Set the forms for your slab.
Install any roughed in plumbing or electrical pipes, as well as sleeves for air conditioning piping and wiring.
Fill the slab area with a suitable material to finished grade.
Compact and finish grade the fill material.
Pretreat the fill and subgrade for insects using an approved and labeled termiticide.
Install the required moisture barrier or waterproof membrane immediately after the termiticide is applied.
Install the reinforcing wire or rebars required by the architect/engineer or your local building codes.
Plan the method you are going to use to screed the concrete.
Determine the method you will use to place the concrete in your forms.
Check forms for alignment and make sure all braces are tight and well anchored so the weight of the concrete does not cause them to bow or fail during the pour.

,
Calculate the quantity of concrete you will need to complete the slab.
Order the concrete from a ready mix concrete supplier, and schedule the delivery to coincide with the concrete placement schedule.
Coordinate concrete testing with a qualified testing laboratory if the construction contract requires it.
Plan on beginning large slab placements as early as possible to allow time to complete the project successfully.
Set up all equipment used in the concrete placement on the day of the pour.
Begin the concrete placement at a corner and continuing placing the concrete along the grade or screed lines as you have established.
Make sure the reinforcing wire mat or rebars are not forced to the bottom of the concrete while placing.
Keep placing the concrete and pulling it roughly level with Come Alongs and screeding it off with a straightedge or power screed.
Have one or two finishers, as the job requires, to bull float the concrete after it has been screeded.
Give men the job of using hand floats the job of working the edges of the slab.
Remove pipe screeds or grade stakes as each area is placed and screeded off.
Continue pouring the concrete until the forms are filled to the finished grade of the slab.
Allow the concrete to set.
Have concrete finishers get on knee boards to work areas where a power trowel (troweling machine) cannot be operated.
Set your troweling machine on the slab when the concrete is hard enough to support the workman without leaving deep footprints in its surface.
Trowel the concrete with the blades at their flattest setting.
Sprinkle a light mist of water on areas that do not respond to the troweling machine, particularly to help pull grout up to fill voids and cover any aggregate left exposed during bull floating.

,
Let the concrete continue to set after it has been troweled the first time.
Run the troweling machines over the concrete until the level of finish you desire is achieved.
Apply a curing compound or use a curing technique to keep the concrete from drying too quickly, especially in extreme weather conditions resulting in rapid evaporation.

,
Saw any joints required by the construction plans.

,
Remove the forms and clean them for reuse on the next project.