
Locate two unused spaces in the electrical service panel on one side or the other column of circuit breakers.
Switch the main disconnect to the OFF position.
Verify that the power is off by checking light fixtures in the space.

,
Remove the cover on the electrical service panel.
Locate or create a space wide enough for the new circuit breaker.
Remove circuit breakers by moving the switch handle to the OFF position and pushing on the handle away from the middle of the panel.
Install the appropriately sized new circuit circuit breaker into the panel.
Remove a pre-punched knock-out ("KO") from the side of the electrical panel that is the same size as the connector.
Install the connector into the opening from the outside and spin the lock nut over the threads from inside.
Unroll the cable on the floor to reduce kinking during installation.
Drill holes centered in framing members, etc.
Thread the cable through the drilled holes beginning either at the electrical panel or any point in the middle (thread in both directions).

,
Determine where to drill behind the range to allow the cable to enter the space for the range outlet by inspecting or measuring the rear of the range.
Pass the range cable through this last hole behind the range.
Strip the outer jacket.
Wire the outlet.
Cut the conductors for the outlet.
Apply oxide inhibitor.
Secure the range outlet to the wall or baseboard in a location where when the range cord is connected, will not interfere with placement of the range and closing of any range drawers.
Remove excess slack from the cable.
Route the cable to the connector mounted in the electric service panel.
Install the cable into the electric service panel through the cable connector.
Connect to the circuit breaker.
Connect to neutral and ground terminals.
Secure the range cable with staples where exposed as needed for support and so that there is no less than 36" between supports (every other joist or stud).
Remove the blank plates from the cover that are now occupying the place of the new circuit breaker.
Secure the cover to the electric service panel and set the new circuit breaker to OFF.

,
Stand to the side of the panel (do not stand directly in front) and move the main service disconnect handle to ON.

,
While still to the side, move the new circuit breaker handle to ON.

,
Check for proper wiring.
If any measurements are not exactly as described, turn the new circuit breaker OFF and check the wiring of the range outlet, and if necessary the wiring in the electric service panel as well.
Re-connecting the range.
Wrap up.