


For this article, create a new workbook and create the following worksheets: Data, later copy it to become Data (2), Chart1, Chart2 and Saves.
,
Set Your Preferences: Open Preferences in the Excel menu and follow the directions below for each tab/icon.
It helps by placing the cursor at cell A16 and doing Freeze Panes.
Enter the upper Defined Name Variables Section on the Data worksheet (here's a picture):

Cell A1: enter AjRows
B1: enter GM (for Golden Mean)
C1: enter Factor1
D1: enter KEY
E1: enter Thickness
A2: 2880
B2: "=(-(1-SQRT(5))/2)" w/o quotes and Format Cell Number Number Decimal Places 8
C2: "=VLOOKUP(ABS(Spheroids),Looker,IF(Spheroids<=24,2,3))"
D2: "=IF(Spheroids<=24, Spheroids*VLOOKUP(Spheroids,LOOKER2,2),Spheroids)"
E2: .5 and Format Cell Number Number Decimal Places 1.
Enter the column headings of rows 4 and 5:

A5: Base t
B5: constant c
C5: Cos
D5: Sin
E4 and F4: METHOD 1
E5: Main X
F5: Main Y
G4: M1-M2 and G5 DIFF and copy G4:G5 to H4:H5.
Enter the column formulas

A6: "=IF(ODD(Spheroids)=Spheroids,0,Tip)" w/o quotes and Format Fill light rose.
Create the Lookup Tables

Enter LOOKER into cell K5.
Create the Method1 full Chart

Edit Go To cell range E6:F2886 and select either Charts from the Ribbon or Chart Wizard.
Create the Method1 partial Chart

Edit Go To cell range E6:F246 (the first two spheroids) and select either Charts from the Ribbon or Chart Wizard.
That completes the Method1 spreadsheet for now, except that I have Inserted a New Comment for important formulas I might overwrite, copying the formula from the formula bar into the new comment.
Enter the Column Formulas for Data(2) that are different from Data:

Cos: Edit Go To cell range C6:C2886 and enter to C6 w/o quotes the formula "=(COS((ROW()-6)*PI()/180*Factor1))" and Edit Fill Down.
Enter the Defined Variables Section that changes for Method2.
Enter the Difference Column's formulas

Select cell G6 and enter, w/o quotes, the formula "=Data!E6-'Data (2)'!E6" which very much depends upon what titles you've given your worksheets.
Create the Chart for Data(2) / Method2

Edit Go To cell range E6:F2886 on Data (2) and select either Charts from the Ribbon or Chart Wizard.
Create the Method 2 Partial chart

Edit Go To cell range E6:F246 on Data (2) (the first two spheroids) and select either Charts from the Ribbon or Chart Wizard.
Analyze the spheres into thirds (beginning, middle, end) and look for a pattern between the two methods:

Select on the Data worksheet cell range E6:F:45 and do Format Cell Border red bold outline.
GOAL SEEKING Y'S TO ZERO:

I2891: Enter "=0-H2891" w/o quotes.
In Excel, if I let the x value of {x, y} Cartesian coordinate pairs of a graph equal the cosine of rows 0 to 360, and then I let the y values equal the sines of rows 0 to 360 -- I have just taken all those row numbers and treated them as angles, right?,In the Garthwaite Curve -- that ring of spiral balls you see me use all the time in many various ways -- I found out how to get 3-dimensionality out of Excel, by combining the z-dimension formula in with x and y (or in some other curves, just with y).
The formula for the "ball", formally called a "spherical helix", is short but a little difficult to explain, so I won't.
Imagine a triangle made by extending the hypotenuse at 30 degrees, then 45 degrees, then 60 degrees.And, for other curves, we are usually distorting the sine and/or cosine by adding/multiplying/subtracting or dividing it by something else.
Just when you think you understand, and you say to yourself, "Aha!,
Why?,
So if the sine and cosine vary between 0 and 1 ordinarily (without further adjustment), and they are ADDED together as one is small and the other is large, they will tend to equal 1.
If you can grasp that much, you are ahead of the game in terms of grasping trig and its ability to produce beautiful and unique designs that possess a unique clarity of definition, because when the "half-curve" is applied to a variable of 10pi to 0, the result is 5pi turns of the spiral of the helix of the sphere from one endpoint of 0 to the other endpoint of 0, which is a nice aesthetic number of turns to behold as a minimum.
,
Make use of helper articles when proceeding through this tutorial:

See the article How to Create a Spirallic Spin Particle Path or Necklace Form or Spherical Border for a list of articles related to Excel, Geometric and/or Trigonometric Art, Charting/Diagramming and Algebraic Formulation.