
Stand on the street and check your home for “curb appeal”.
Spend a small amount of money to make sure the driveway is free of weeds and grease and ensure that the garage or carport is presentable.
Check the architectural details.
Ensure that all stained glass shows clearly.
Check the roof.
Research the history of the house.
Spend a bit of time and effort on the garden.
If you have a pool make sure it’s sparkling.
Spruce up the front door.
Remove all cobwebs from the entrance area.
Remove piles of clothes, books, shoes, toys, etc.
Fix up the front doormat.
Have enough lighting.
Fix the kitchen as much as you can within your budget.
Ensure sufficient storage space in the kitchen.
Replacing old flooring with linoleum or light tiles makes the kitchen look bigger and brighter.
Remove all inessential clutter from the kitchen.
Get as much light as possible into the kitchen.
Replace worn floors.
Replace worn handles, taps/faucets, fittings.
Ensure that the bathroom looks first rate.
Re-enamel the bath and basin if they are in bad condition.
If the bathroom has carpet, get rid of it.
If you have an old-fashioned bathroom with psychedelic tiles that should have been replaced years ago, don’t despair.
Buy some crisp new towels and face cloths, a new soap dish, a few fragrant soaps and a flowering pot plant.

,
Shop around for an unusual mirror- it will add style and space to your bathroom.

,
Fit a new blind to the window to add a modern look to the room.

,
Reduce the amount of furniture in the room.
Allow the windows to show clearly.
Check that the bookshelves and trinket shelves are neat, dusted and tidy.
Remove family photos, certificates, degrees, etc.
Ensure that the room smells and looks clean.
Remove unnecessary furniture and all clutter.
Introduce plenty of light.
Always make the beds.
Don’t forget to have all light sockets fitted with bulbs.
Scrub cupboards, wash windows and get in the carpet cleaners.

,
Break out the elbow grease.
Reduce the amount of photos and pictures on the walls.
Bake a loaf of bread and brew some coffee just before your house inspections.
Remove any evidence of pets.
Make sure that furniture is neither cluttered nor in the way.
Use scents in areas such as bedrooms and the bathroom, to sweeten the experience.