
This portion of the guide is geared towards those who have little to no Science Bowl experience.Be prepared.Bring paper and a pencil for computation problems and taking notes.
Know the basic rules.
Listen carefully to the question and stay focused.
Listen closely to the format of the question.
Answers given to multiple-choice questions must be either the letter of the answer choice (W, X, Y, or Z), an exact statement of the “scientific answer” (i.e.Answers given to short answer questions must be an acceptable variation or form of the given answer in the opinion of the moderator.
Take notes on longer questions, or questions involving many numbers.
During short-answer questions, buzz as soon as you know the answer.
During multiple-choice questions only buzz before the correct answer choice has been read in the following situations.
If you buzz before the question has been completely read and are verbally recognized by the moderator, this is known as an interrupt.
If nobody is buzzing in, don’t be afraid to guess.
For those who are new and/or are being “out-buzzed”: buzz quickly.
For those who interrupt excessively: stop that.
For everyone: find a happy medium.
A lot of people get so absorbed in the game that they stop caring about their competitors as human beings.
Shake people’s hands after you play them.If they ignore you, rest easy with the knowledge that they have many non-scientific lessons to learn.The competition can get intense, but always remember to have fun with it.If you get frustrated after a loss or gloat after a win, remind yourself that you ultimately play because it teaches you science and leadership skills in an exciting way and inspires others to learn and grow as well.If this is not the case for you, or you just plain don’t enjoy it, do something else that you do value for the right reasons.This section of the guide is for more advanced competitors looking for ways to gain an edge in the competition mechanics and practice strategies.While the guide is aimed at team captains, others would benefit from it as well, particularly coaches, prospective captains, and members of highly competitive teams.The Science Bowl values leadership and teamwork over scientific knowledge, but values speed over all three.Push yourself faster during practice even if it costs you some interrupts; this will help you speed up more quickly, and your teammates will struggle to keep up, which will help them even more.
Speed can scare your opponents into psychological submission.
Never let a question die; always guess if no one else knows the answer whether it be a toss-up or a bonus.There is an ideal speed at which the difference between “penalty points” (the points you lose to interrupts and correct toss-up and bonus answers by the other team to questions that you interrupted – a maximum of 18 per question) and “reward points” (the points you gain by answering more toss-ups and their bonuses correctly – a maximum of 14 per question) is greatest.
For any one person, this ideal speed varies with time, because they will constantly learn more science.Ideal speed depends on the ratio of your teammates’ average accuracy to average speed, because there will be times when you buzz before your teammate can say the right answer and get it wrong and vice versa.
When your teammates are missing too many questions, whether by answering incorrectly or not buzzing on questions they know, tell them to adjust their speed accordingly.
Toss-ups:

Anticipate – when you’re facing the best teams in the U.S. especially during earlier rounds, you may notice that they answer questions correctly before enough information has been given to solve them.
Bonuses:

Divide and Conquer (especially on computation questions) – quickly assign various parts of the problem to your fastest computers.
Rather than being humble or arrogant, a strong captain knows his/her own strengths and weaknesses at least as well as those of his teammates.
The strongest captain doesn’t necessarily win the most toss-ups or know the most science, but he or she does know what his friends know (and when to take their advice).
Taking the extra time to make sure your answer is right doesn’t cost anything anyway (unless you’re trying to catch up quickly at the end of the game).
This is when knowing yourself comes into play, because you must consider your own answer along with everyone else’s and assign it its due weight.Bonus questions are worth 2.5 toss-ups; if you and your team master bonuses, you will win the matches in later, harder rounds (like the finals) when each team may only answer ~4 toss-ups correctly.
At the national competition, rounds consist of two ten-minute halves.
You are given twenty seconds to answer bonuses.
If your team is too far behind the other time to catch up by playing at your ordinary pace, and a multiple choice toss-up is given, give a random guess immediately after hearing the question type and subject.
There are a lot of ways to study for Science Bowl; pick the ones that work best with your learning style (i.e. visual, auditory, kinesthetic) to reduce wasted time not just in Science Bowl but in all subjects.
See http://www.Nosb.Org/ for more information.
You might consider making a few temporary alterations to the rules though.
Whoever is moderating should be super nit-picky about all of the rules, because the competition moderators (at least at nationals) certainly are.
Many super talented teams lose matches because they don’t actually know the rules.
The challenge system will reward your diligence for reading the rule-book and your people skills in communicating your challenge to the moderator.There are many ways of picking teams, but regardless of the method you and/or your coach chose, explain it to your team at the beginning of the year!,
Ask your coach to keep track of people’s scores and attendance at practices.
Shuffle the teams you compete in at practice until you settle on your team(s), so you can see who works well together.
You could build your a team by taking the highest 3 scorers, with the remaining the remaining slots being filled by whoever best fills the gaps in knowledge of the 7 subject areas: Astronomy, Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, Energy, Math, and Physics.