
Recognize the difference between skin undertone and skin shade.
Examine the veins on the underside of your wrist.Look closely at the veins – what color are they?,
Reference your jewelry collection.
Wrap a white towel around your face to examine your skin.
Exfoliate and moisturize your skin.
Wear white and be sure to test the makeup in good lighting.
Match the undertone of your skin first.
Match the color of your face, neck and décolletage.The neck tends to be the lightest, and the face and décolletage are usually slightly darker because they are exposed to more sunlight and elements.
Try 3 different shades to compare.Foundation shades usually fall somewhere on a loose spectrum of fair, moderately fair, medium, medium deep, deep and very deep.
Go 1-2 shades lighter than your skin tone to neutralize dark areas.
Match your foundation exactly for concealing other areas of the face.Areas of redness and most other skin issues are best covered with a concealer that exactly matches your foundation/skin tone.If you have trouble matching them exactly, go for a neutral beige with faint yellow shades.
Adjust your chosen shade to match the seasons.
Go 1-2 shades lighter than your skin tone for highlighting.To highlight, you'll need to apply a concealer 1-2 shades lighter than your skin tone to the areas of your face that naturally catch the light – the top of the cheekbones, directly beneath the arch of the brow, down the center of the nose and the Cupid’s bow.Highlighting with concealer can help you sculpt your face and give it added dimension.

,
Go 1-2 shades darker than your skin tone for contouring.To contour, you'll need to apply a concealer 1-2 shades darker than your skin tone to the natural hollows of the face – right below the cheekbone, along the jawline and at the temple near the hairline.Highlighting and contouring are currently enjoying a surge of popularity, so you'll probably see contouring kits and other special products made for this on the market.However, all you really need to get this look are the right concealer shades.

,
Address specific discolorations with color correcting concealer.These concealers come in shades that are not flesh tones.