
Find your strengths.
Spruce up your look.
Find what looks best for your hair: guys love when a girl's hair is flirtatious or pretty.
Invest in a scent that suits you, such as a flowery perfume or rugged-scented cologne.

,
Less is more.
Dress the way you feel, but to attract the male attention, try to stick on an outfit which extenuates your curves but not too revealing otherwise they will get the wrong idea!

,
Keep a casual handbag to put with everyday outfits, if you see this guy daily; don't drag around a rucksack, you want to look like a lady!,
Keep a smile on.
Show the person your real beauty show what you are.
Remember, beauty is not everything.
Along with looks, you need to learn few more steps like don't give too much attention to him.
Talk intelligently with him.
Most important of all, love yourself and be confident in whatever you do.

,
Do some of the things he likes doing.
Find out what he likes.
Have a good attitude around him.
Don't try to sound like you're bragging or exaggerating when having a conversation.
Make sure that you keep in touch with all of your friends and have conversations with them when your crush is in the room.
Remember, the most important thing is not trying to impress him.
Show him one of your talents, like playing the guitar, singing or maybe dancing.
Read fashion magazines like Teen Vogue or Cosmo Girl, but be careful, because they may not always give good advice, so think before following them.
Don't be afraid to be yourself.
For a sweet sexy pin up girl look, invest in black liquid eyeliner, matching skin foundation with a matte finish, red lipstick, and peachy blusher.
Prep the eye for the eyeliner with some nude eyeshadow, then glide your eyeliner from the inner corner of the eye outwards to the end, then a small upward/straight flick.

,
Use peach blusher, or a liquid blusher to highlight the cheekbones and create good facial structure.

,
Then prep your lips with lip balm, following with a lip brush to use with a rouge lipstick.

,Skin matching foundation, clear lip gloss with a non stick feel, peach/pinkish blusher and mascara, preferably non clumpy mascara, recommended bourgeois "elastic mascara"

,
For a very natural beauty:


Apply moisturizer leaving it to set in for 5 minutes, then blend the foundation evenly over the face.