
Gauge their interest.
Encourage them with their favorite recipes.
Start out simple.
Teach in a way appealing to your teen.
Make it a regular event.
Talk about food with your teens.
Make a plan.
Guide them.
Discuss what foods are healthier options to have when friends are over.
Have fun.
Start with eggs.
Gather your ingredients.
Crack the egg firmly down the middle into the bowl, and carefully discard the shell.Add a bit of tap water, about a teaspoonful.
If you want to get fancy, you can add a teaspoonful of light soy sauce instead, but your omelette may taste just a little too flavorful for some people.
Beat the egg (and salt and pepper and water) with the fork just until the yoke and the egg white are mixed.
Be careful.
Add the egg mixture, and slightly tilt and swirl the pan so that the egg spreads out over the entire pan, then put the frying pan back on the burner. ,
Get a spatula (a flat-bladed wooden or plastic implement that won't scratch your nice non-stick pan), and watch the egg.
When the egg is just barely cooked to the point that it isn't fluid, take the pan off the burner (onto a vacant burner, perhaps,) and use your spatula to fold the omelette exactly in half.
Crack the egg right into the hot oil in the pan.Let them fry to your liking.
For "over easy" egg, you need to turn them over, which you do very carefully with the spatula.
For "sunny side up" eggs, have a heat-proof glass lid that fits your frying pan well.
In a large bowl, mix an egg, a quarter cup of milk, salt, pepper, cinnamon, and nutmeg to taste.
Slice an old loaf of bread into slices about a third of an inch thick.
Soak a slice of the bread in the egg-milk-spices mixture.
Once the skillet and oil or butter is hot (just too hot to touch), drain the slice of bread, and lay it on the skillet.
Turn the bread over with a spatula.
Get a small, nice cut of beef, and cube it.Add salt, pepper, any one of soy sauce or Worcester sauce or vinegar or red wine, just enough to moisten the meat, and mix thoroughly.Shake garlic powder over the beef.
Heat oil in a skillet, maybe two tablespoons full.
Cut the beef into strips (about half the size of a standard french-fry) and stir-fry them.Add discs of zucchini, carrots, button mushrooms quartered, bok choy, sliced onions, celery sticks, asparagus, with the fibrous ends snapped off, snow peas, or sweet peppers (seeded and cut into strips).
Cook each one separately, and use only as many as you want.
Fry in hot oil for about two minutes.
Stir-fry each vegetable separately, and put in a bowl, each in its own bowl, or all in the same bowl.
Get out a cooking pot.
Cover the pot, and cook for about ten minutes.
Remove the cooked rice from the heat.
Clean up some romaine lettuce thoroughly, and shred by hand into bite-sized pieces.
Get out a small pitcher.
Wash up before you serve the meal.