
Start your initial recovery in the hospital.When the general anesthesia following your joint replacement surgery wears off, you will find yourself in a place called the "recovery room," also known as the post anesthesia care unit, or PACU.
Have your pain managed with medication.After the numbing effects of the anesthesia (used during surgery) wear off, you will need to be put on pain medication to ease the pain following surgery.
Work with a physiotherapist.You can expect to receive a visit from the hospital physiotherapist the day following your joint replacement surgery to begin a rehabilitation program.
Monitor for any post-surgical complications.Another reason that it is important to stay in the hospital following your joint replacement surgery is so that the nurses and doctors can monitor for any post-surgical complications, and handle these immediately should they arise (they occur in approximately 2% of patients).Things your doctor will be looking for include proper wound healing with no signs of infection, as well as preventing the formation of blood clots (both by monitoring you as well as providing blood thinning medications and sometimes compression stockings).
Plan your next steps after discharge from the hospital.You will most likely be working with a PT (a physical therapist therapist) and a discharge planning nurse to organize your next steps after you leave the hospital.
Continue with regular physiotherapy.After being discharged from the hospital, people who have received a joint replacement surgery are generally advised to continue with physiotherapy 3 to 4 times per week.
Recruit help from family and friends.If you are returning home and are not yet capable of completing all living tasks on your own, now is the time to reach out and ask for help from family and friends.
Contact your employer and discuss your return to work.Depending upon which joint you received surgery on, as well as the nature of the job you do, you may need to take a short leave of absence from work as you recover.
Ensure that your surgical incision is healing well.You will want to keep an eye on your surgical wound as the weeks go by to ensure that it is healing properly.
Attend all scheduled follow-up visits.Following a joint replacement surgery, follow-up visits are generally scheduled with your surgeon at the 3 week mark, the 6 week mark, the 3 month mark, the 6 month mark, and the 12 month mark.
Return to physical activity as directed.An essential part of a good recovery is returning to physical activity as recommended by your physiotherapist and healthcare team.