
Check your cycling equipment.
Check the brakes.
Check the bike's tires.
See if the bike is the right height for you.
Wear bright clothing, a reflective vest, or have flashing lights.
Wear comfortable shoes.
Use trouser elastics or ties.
Don't tie clothing around your waist.
Wearing a helmet is always a good idea when cycling.
Wear eye protection.
Know the rules and use your senses.
Ride in the direction of the traffic.
Prior to adjusting course left or right, always first look back behind you to make sure it's clear, and then signal your intent.
Signal your intentions to other road users.
Stop for stop signs and watch for traffic.

,
Obey traffic signals.

,
Do not listen to music whilst cycling.
Choose a conspicuous lane position.
Track your tires at least five feet from the side of cars parked at the curb to eliminate the risk of being struck, or being caused to swerve in front of overtaking traffic, by a suddenly opened door.
Don't try to share lanes with other traffic that are too narrow for safe side-by-side sharing.
Share the road wisely.
Know that most of the risk is in front of you, especially from traffic turning and crossing across your path.
Watch for cars on your right that are turning right.
Moving laterally on the roadway sometimes requires not only looking back and signalling, but often negotiation is entailed.
If you are turning left, use the left turn lane.
If you are going straight, don't use the right turn lane or the part of the road normally used by right-turning traffic.
Don't pass slowing or stopped traffic on the right that can and might turn right.
Know the speed limits.
Know when to ride on the road, on the shoulder or in the bike lane.
Don't ride in bike lanes that are marked within the door zone of parked cars.
Use of cycle tracks running next to the road are rarely legally required, but can be preferred, especially for relatively slow recreational riding.
Avoid cycling on the sidewalk or footpath.
Take extra caution when cycling in wet conditions.
Cross railway/railroad lines at right angles.
Always carry identification, like a medical ID bracelet or ID card in your seat bag.
Use appropriate lighting.
Use conspicuous lane positioning.
Take care at night.
Use hand signals properly.
Give adequate warning.
Watch for parked vehicles.
Teach your children how to ride safely in a completely safe place.
Ensure that children always wear a helmet when riding.
Explain to older children that riding at high speed could seriously hurt them.
Find safe places for children to ride for fun, and safe routes to school and other places.