
Don't pop your pimples.
Consider going without makeup for a while.
Another disadvantage of popping pimples is that the skin around the pimple, and the pimple itself, will become inflamed.
Try not to touch your face.
Drink enough water.
Cut sweet, sugary drinks like sodas, juices, and smoothies out of your diet.
Drink less milk.
Unsweetened green tea may be helpful, too.
Eat a balanced diet.
People who eat more fruits and veggies, and less milk and sugar, tend to have less acne.Make sure you get 5 to 9 servings of healthy vegetables (especially leafy greens) per day.

,
Eat omega-3 fatty acids.
Consider probiotics.
Eat the right vitamins, in moderation.
Try evening primrose oil.
Try zinc citrate.
Try vitamin-E. Critical for skin health, vitamin-E is low in many acne sufferers.Take 400 IU (international units) a day.

,
Don't try to wash your face more than twice a day.
Moisturize after each time you wash your face.
Use moisturizers that are non-comedogenic.
If you do happen to have naturally oily skin, try looking for a gel-based moisturizer.
Use a toner for oily skin.
Remove as much unhealthy stress from your life as possible.
Find creative outlets for your stress.
Try meditation techniques.
Make sure you're getting enough sleep.
Young and elderly people need more sleep than adults.
Exercise.
Always wear sunscreen if exercising outdoors.
Shower or clean yourself after you exercise.
Try some benzoyl peroxide.
Use salicylic acid.
Use toothpaste.
Make sure to use natural toothpaste when you dab it onto your skin.
Try tea tree oil.
Tea tree oil has anti-inflammatory propertiesthat can make the redness and size of the pimple less noticeable.

,
Crush up some aspirin.
Use astringents on oily skin.
Store bought astringents.
Natural astringents may also work in a pinch.
Lemon juice.
Banana peel.
Witch hazel.
Green tea.
Apply ice cubes if necessary.
As mentioned above, ice will help diminish the size of the pores by constricting the blood vessels underneath the skin.
If you have a lot of acne, work in sections.
Repeat this process around your face.

,
Use eye-drops on the affected area.
Because cold also helps reduce inflammation in acne, place the Q-Tip soaked in eye-drops into the freezer for an hour before applying.
Try some natural antihistamines.
Stinging nettle.
Coltsfoot may be effective as a natural antihistamine.
Basil may also work as a natural antihistamine.
If after all this, you still have some acne, consult a dermatologist.