
Check electrical panel to be sure that circuit breaker is in the "On" position (not in tripped or off) or fuses (if used) are installed securely and not "blown".
Shut off the power.

Remove the upper (and if provided lower) access panel(s).

Clear away any insulation blocking access or view of the controls (thermostat and high-temperature switch) and heating element.
Look for obvious signs of damage.
Locate the parts below:


High Temperature Limit Switch: Has a reset button There will be (4) terminal screws / wires connected to it.
Test to ensure power is off.

Measure Voltage.
Set the multimeter to Ohms or Resistance.Remove one wire from the heating element, it does not matter which.Connect the black test lead to the jack marked "Common".Connect the red test lead to the jack marked "Ohms" or "Resistance" if there are multiple jacks from which to choose.
Set the range (if provided) to R x 1.

Press the metal tips of the test probes together.
Replace batteries if needed.

Press the probe tips against the terminals of the heating element (one probe to each screw).

Be aware that a "good" heating element will read a very low value (between 10 and 20 ohms depending on wattage of the element and possibly read as 0 ohms depending on your meter).
Check for a grounded element.
Hold the probes at the end of the test leads together.

Press the red probe against either terminal screw of the heating element.Reconnect the wire that was removed from the heating element to perform the resistance check in the previous steps.
'Repeat the steps needed to gain access to the lower thermostat and heating element.Set the bottom thermostat to minimum.Set the top thermostat to maximum.
The steps below assume that there is warm water in the tank.
Restore power to water heater.Remove red test lead from the "Ohms" or "Resistance" jack of the meter and insert into "Volt" jack.
Set the range of the meter to the lowest Voltage value that is greater than 240 Volts "AC" or "VAC".

Check the top heating element's terminals for presence of line voltage by touching a probe tip to each terminal, as done in the resistance test earlier.
If there is no power, attempt to reset the high temperature switch.After attempting reset, check the heating element for power again.If still no power present, test the top left and right terminals of the high temp switch for line voltage with the probe tips.
If no power, trouble is an open circuit.
Once power is restored to top terminals of high temp switch, test for line voltage at the top heating element.If line voltage not found at the element and the top tank is cool, replace top controls.Set top thermostat to minimum.Set lower thermostat to maximum.Check bottom heating element for presence of line voltage.
If no power present, determine which wire is connects a heating element terminal screw to the bottom thermostat terminal screw.If line voltage not found, replace upper controls.If line voltage found, check for line voltage at heating element terminal screws by touching each probe to the terminal screws.If line voltage not found and the tank is cool, replace lower thermostat.
If line voltage is found, wait for water to heat or perform the Ohms (or Resistance) checks on the elements once more with the power off.
Return all thermostats to an equal value of your choosing, but really should not be set higher than 140 degrees due to the risk of scalding.Replace insulation and access covers.Ensure power to water heater is off at the fuse, circuit breaker or "service switch".
The heating elements protrude into the tank and are immersed directly in the water of the tank.
To quickly drain and fill the water heater, shut off the cold water supply to the heater.Close the tank's drain valve when the tank is empty (or emptied to the point you desire).Disconnect wires from the terminals of the heating elements.
The heating elements are secured by one of several methods.
Clean the tank surface around the opening for the element.
Copy the nameplate data of the water heater to purchase correct replacement parts.Install the gasket on the element.It is not necessary to wrap Teflon tape or to apply pipe dope on threads of the new element(s) unless the new element specifies the use of it (especially if the replacement element has a gasket).
Secure the element into / on the opening in the tank with the bolts through the flange or threads on the element.
Make sure the nearest hot water faucet is still open and begin filling the water heater by opening the cold water supply valve.Shut off the hot water faucet.
Check for evidence of water leaking from the new element(s).
Connect wires to heating element.Apply power to the water heater.
To prevent water hammer, crack open the hot water faucets in the home to allow the pipes to slowly refill.Ensure power to water heater is off.The tank does not need to be emptied to replace the controls.
Identify wires and respective terminals.
Controls are held in place and pressed against the tank by a spring steel clip.
Copy the nameplate data of the water heater to obtain correct replacement parts.
Clean the tank surface that the controls contact.Slip the controls under the steel fingers and make sure they are making good contact with the tank surface.Rewire the controls based on the labels applied on the old controls.