
Know the four sections of night.
Make a plan.
Sneak snacks in and put any devices you are using in your room.
Use electronics.
When using the Internet, avoid sites you find boring.
If you are using the computer, play games that require interactivity with other real people, such as Primal Carnage.
Go on Facebook.
Join social sites that are in your best interests.
If you do not have a computer, try playing a game on your iPod.
If you have headphones, use them!,
If you do not have an iPod, turn on a TV.
Play board games like Scene It or card games.
Try reading and listening to music with headphones on.
You will probably start to get bored around this time doing the things you've done for three straight hours.
Radio & Reading: Turn on a book light, but whatever you do, don't turn on a regular light or your parents will know you're awake and they will lecture you.
Watch a movie!,
Turn on a fan.
Watch a movie, turn the volume up, and play a game, build a card tower, paint a picture, or anything!

,
Radio & Console: Turn a radio on low volume and Cool Math games.
Radio & Movie: Turn on a movie you've seen a few times, and turn the radio on, but so you can hear it a bit louder than the movie.

,
Radio, Console & Movie: Play a movie you have seen many times, turn the radio on, and play on a handheld game console.

,
Doing only one thing at a time will put you to sleep!,
If your parents get up early to go to work, turn off the radio, the movie, and stop reading.
If your parents are walking down the hall, stuff your book under your pillow, and pretend you are sleeping.
If your parents don't get up early: the early morning stage will make you almost fall asleep.
Maybe do a few morning activities like cleaning your face or brushing your teeth, maybe take a shower.

,
Continue with your midnight activities.

,You could splash cold water on your face to try to wake up

,
Go on the Internet and read scientific articles, watch The Curiosity Show,watch paleontology videos or talk with people by texting on in a chat box or on a forum.
Revive yourself first by washing your face and brushing your teeth.

,
Play a game on the internet while sitting up in a chair and listening to low volume music.

,
After the sun is fairly high up in the sky, take a cold shower and brush your teeth again.
Keep yourself occupied!,
Pull off the sheets and blankets.