

Ensure your Raspberry Pi is up to date.

Update your package libraries.
Upgrade your packages.Shut down the Raspberry Pi and disconnect the power.

Locate the camera port.
,

Lift the back tab by pulling up on the two sides.
,

Insert the ribbon cable so the metal connectors are facing away from the Ethernet port and towards the HDMI port as pictured.
,

While holding the camera ribbon cable in place, press down on the two tabs.Reconnect the power and start up the Raspberry Pi.

Open the Raspberry Pi configuration menu.

In the Interfaces tab, make sure the camera software is enabled.
Test the camera by taking a picture!,

Open the picture file you just created.

Consider the pros and cons of various printers.
Consider your needs and your budget.
Ensure your printer is compatible with the Raspberry Pi.
Install CUPS.
Add the user 'pi' to the group that is allowed to print 'lpadmin'.
Plug in the printer to the Raspberry Pi using the USB cable.

Open the internet browser by clicking the blue globe icon in the top left side of the task bar.

Click on the Administration tab.

Select your printer under the Local Printers list and click Continue.

Rename your printer to something easy to remember and simple to type.

Select the printer driver for your specific printer's make and model.

Select the default print settings you would prefer on this printer.

Check for active printers.

List the files in your home directory.
Print the picture.

Pick a photo booth code.

Clone the boothy repository.
Change file and folder permissions.
Run the INSTALL file as a bash script.
Edit the "run" script.Shutdown the Raspberry Pi and disconnect the power.

Locate the GPIO pins for the button.

Hook up a jumper wire to pin 26.

Plug the jumper wires into a breadboard.

Plug two lengths of hook-up wire into the breadboard.

Connect the corresponding hook-up wires to the positive and negative contacts of the button.
,Plug the power back into the Raspberry Pi and start it up.
Test it out!,
Close the photo booth program.

Edit the python code.
Save a backup!,

Customize the python code.
Build an enclosure!