
Check for an elevated heart rate.All types of shock, including distributive shock, typically present with a faster than normal heart rate (over 100 beats per minute).
Observe an increased respiratory rate.In addition to an elevated heart rate, all types of shock also typically present with rapid respiration.
Feel for warm extremities.In distributive shock specifically (which includes septic shock), a person's extremities (hands and feet) will typically be warmer than usual.
Notice decreased urination.In shock, because the body perceives a lack of effective blood flow and oxygenation, it will seek to conserve fluids.
Evaluate for a fever.Because infection ("sepsis") is the number one cause of distributive shock, it is key to test for the presence of a fever.
Look for signs of confusion.Shock typically presents with confusion, and often with a decreased level of consciousness.
Measure blood pressure.In shock, the blood pressure is lower than normal.
Take note of an infection preceding the onset of shock.The number one reason for someone to go into distributive shock is due to an infection that gets worse and spreads to the bloodstream (called "sepsis").
Consider the possibility of anaphylaxis.Another reason for someone to go into distributive shock is due to anaphylaxis - a systemic allergic reaction, which may occur in response to a bee sting or other allergy.
Assess for other common causes of distributive shock.Other common causes of distributive shock include "SIRS" (systemic inflammatory response syndrome), pancreatitis, kidney problems (called "Addisonian crisis"), burns, toxic shock syndrome (most common in women who are menstruating who have left a tampon in for too long), and "neurogenic shock" (a subtype of distributive shock caused by a spinal cord injury that results in decreased blood vessel tone).

,
Test for lactic acidosis.A blood test for lactate can indicate the presence of lactic acidosis.
Evaluate white blood cell counts.Measuring white blood cells via a blood test is also very helpful in assessing for the presence of an infection, which is the leading cause of distributive shock.
Assess vital organ function.
Opt for other diagnostic tests as needed to determine the underlying cause.
Begin treatment.