
Know that History, like other branches of human intellectual activities is a vast and ramified subject.
Know that the specialized histories of those disciplines normally will be taught and studied by people inside that specific subject to be able to judge value of historical events of that subject.
Evaluate your own expertise if you like to engage in one of the specialised types of history.
Select a period that attracts you more, say, expressionists' era.

,
Dig deeper in their rise, their message, their fight and dominance and evolution and at last leaving the arena to a new style.

,
Select one of them and study his time and life and his works and significance of him.

,
Write six thousands words about this group; include almost half of it around the selected character.
Use flashcards.
Notice that you have started to grow a desire to extend your study to near disciplines such as history of sculptors, architectures of nations, fine arts in general, as frequently you encounter a crosstalk among these that make you frustrated of carving out a section out of them.

,
Know that even in specialised histories one gradually becomes interested in studying general history as one cannot separate a human activity from the events that surround it.
Decide if you are interested in general history rather than or on the side of the specialised subject.
Know that in our modern time there is almost a recent foot step to begin study general history of man.
Get the "Story of Civilization" by Will and Ariel Durant.
Decide if you are a good story teller.
Volunteer in a school to help teaching of verbal intensive subjects, such as history, geography, sociology, literature and creative writing.
Avoid memorizing anything.
Remember, generally, a good teacher does not perform.
Go to crucible again.
Use mind maps.
Take one course in sociology.
Be surprised.
Become humble.
Get the required formal education.
Apply for a job with the local school departments.

,
If accepted, teach the courses according to the school's curriculum.

