
Remove the baseboard trim around the area you want to cover with slate tile.
Remove the carpet, laminate or other flooring that is over the area.
Check that your subfloor is level.
Clean the floor as well as you can.
Paint a coat of polyurethane on top of plywood subfloor to prevent water damage.
Research and find the slate tile you want to use.
Measure the length and width of each room you want to tile.

,
Use a construction calculator to find out how much tile you will need.
Order the tile.
Purchase a large bag of quarter-inch (0.6-cm) spacers so that you can keep your slate tile evenly spaced and grouted.
Buy your grouting equipment and mortar.
Remove all the tiles and check for surface damage before you get started.
Sort your tile according to color variation and thickness.
Sketch a layout for the color scheme of the slate.
Measure lines through the width and length of the room.
Lay out your tile to figure out the best use of color.
Decide if you will need to cut tile at the edges of the room.
Cut tiles to fit around the edges of the room.
Mark tiles that require extra thinset on the back to create an even surface.
Remove a quarter of the room’s layout so that you can start installing the tile.
Choose the mortar you want to use.
Ready a bucket of water and a sponge, so that you can remove excess mortar from the tiles when necessary.

,
Apply your thinset or adhesive to a two by three foot (0.6 by 0.9 m) area.
Run the grooved edge of the towel in a single direction across the three-foot (0.6-m) area.
Place the first tile down on the intersection of your chalk lines.
Remember to build up thinner tiles with thicker coatings of mortar.
Use your damp sponge to remove thinset that drops onto the tile before it dries.
Set nine tiles at a time and then move on to a new section.
Leave the finished slate to set for 24 hours before you grout.

,
Remove the spacers tile-by-tile just before you grout your tiles.

,
Purchase sanded grout.
Work the grout into the joints using a sponge float.
Finish an area and remove excess grout with a damp sponge.
Run a grouting tool over the joints to make them more even.
Consider sealing your slate after 30 days of curing.