
Drive consistently.
Don't impede other traffic.
When you must drive more slowly than others (looking for an address or when your vehicle is having mechanical difficulty), consider turning on the indicator which is on the side of oncoming traffic.
Don't tailgate.
Always check your mirrors and your blind spot before passing as there may be someone else behind you driving at a much higher speed.
Use your turn signal lights to signal your intentions to other drivers so your actions don't come as a surprise.
When you need to use the brake to slow down, put your foot on it and decelerate smoothly.
Accelerate with purpose.
When pulling into moving traffic, time your move carefully and accelerate quickly so you don't force oncoming drivers to hit their brakes.
Stop at the stop line, especially at intersections with traffic lights.
When you are moving into a turn lane in preparation for making a turn, signal your intention, change into the turn lane, then slow down - in that order.
When driving at speeds under the limit, try to drive as close to the limit as possible. unless conditions demand otherwise (i.e.
If there is more than one clear lane and you are in the right lane behind someone going a few miles under the limit, do not honk or speed by and cut them off to make a point that they are going too slow.
When driving on a multi-lane road, do not block other traffic by driving right next to another vehicle at the same speed.
On freeways and Interstates, Do not drive in the left lane continually unless heavy traffic or upcoming turns/exits demand it.
Stay out of the blind spots of other vehicles as much as possible, which are generally the right and left rear corners depending on the vehicle.

,
If you inadvertently cause a situation that annoys other drivers, and they honk the horn or indicate their displeasure in some other way, do not gesture wildly, honk your own horn or jam the brakes.
In heavy highway traffic, pick a lane and stay in it, but not the fast lane.
If you are on the freeway and it looks like the vehicle next to you is trying to get over, it probably is because they are trying to get over.
If you are behind someone who is trying to switch lanes, don't try to pass them on that side to crowd them out.
Recognize that highway on-ramps and off-ramps are there so the flow of traffic will not be interrupted.
Anticipate highway on-ramp incoming traffic.
Passing on the right of traffic is very dangerous and also illegal in some places.
Don't drive with your foot on the brake.