
Watch for pain.One of the defining features of renal colic (kidney stones) is that they can cause severe pain when they get stuck and cause an obstruction.
Look for blood in your urine.Blood in the urine is another characteristic of renal colic (kidney stones)l however, there is one caveat to noticing it: the blood may or may not be visible to the naked eye.
Take note of other urinary symptoms.In addition to blood in your urine, many people with renal colic (kidney stones) experience other urinary symptoms.
Consider your risk factors.Your likelihood of having kidney stones also increases in proportion to your risk factors.
Have a "urinalysis" (urine test).If your doctor suspects that you may have kidney stones, she will perform a "urinalysis," which assesses various aspects of your urine.
Receive a CT scan.A specialized type of CT scan — a "non contrast helical CT" — is the imaging test of choice in the diagnosis of renal colic.
Ask your doctor for an ultrasound.If you are someone who is advised to minimize your exposure to radiation (such as a pregnant woman or a child), your doctor may recommend an ultrasound as opposed to a CT scan to evaluate for the presence of kidney stones.
Determine whether or not you can be "treated at home.
Opt for pain medications.If you are in severe pain, your doctor will most likely offer you narcotics such as codeine or morphine to get your symptoms under control.
Ask your doctor for anti-nausea medications.If you are experiencing severe nausea and/or vomiting, you can also be given an anti-nausea medication (antiemetics).
Receive IV fluids to stay hydrated.If you are being treated in hospital, you will most likely be hooked up to an IV where you will receive all necessary fluids, calories, and many of your medications (including pain medications and anti-nausea medications).
Have a procedure to remove your kidney stone if it is too large to pass on its own.Your doctor may advise "shock wave lithotripsy" to break up the stone into smaller fragments, or "percutaneous nephrolithotomy" for larger or more complex stones that need to be removed surgically.