
Decide if the New York State Museum is the best choice for your family.
Be aware of the Museum's hours.
Drive to the New York State Museum, if you'd like.
Park near the Museum.
Walk to the Museum.
Decide what portion of the museum you'd like to take in.
Take in how the Main Lobby/pre-Museum is set up.
Recognize the sections of this museum's first floor level.
Visit Fire Engine Hall.
Check out this area.Check out the large piece steel that was pulled from the World Trade Center inside the September 11th part of the Museum, along with a fire engine that was pulled from the rubble near the World Trade Center on September 11th (as demolished as it was),,Look at the smashed-in police car's door of one of New York City's finest during these September 11th-used "cars".
View the pew that was used as the site of refuge after the attacks from St Paul's Cathedral.
Look at all the smaller stuff they pulled out of the rubble at the Landfill site at Fresh Kill's that is under lock and key under glass in this area of the museum.
Visit the New York Metropolis area.
Wlak inside the walk-through New York Subway car that was once used to go between Washington Heights 207th Street and Rockaway Park.Look around for the Grand Central Terminal diorama that is put together to-scale and includes a rather accurate representation of the track system running underneath it's terminal), These exhibits all talk about life on the streets of New York City, including one area that talks about the effects of schooling on children, as well as an area focused on the immigration experiences during those times.
Visit the replica street-set for the front of the Sesame Street set.
Pass by the older style elevator and cherish in the memories of this exhibit.Look at the display case about life on Millionaire's Row, if you have a spare chance.Find information about the South Street Seaport and it's effect on the New York City economy.Look at life in the tenements and watch history being made, reading placards as you walk around this area.View the making of skyscrapers in the Skyscraper City section of New York Metropolis.Try to have some heart for victims of Harlem and the Holocaust in "Harlem in the 1920s".Try to have a love for the glamorous shopping districts on Fifth Ave as you walk past an area describing the life and times of this lovely area.
Look for the small Indigenous Algonkian (Algonquin) wigwam on the main pathway just before you enter the entrance to Gallery Space East.There are a skeleton of a large whale near the Open Spaces exhibit (near the South Street Seaport area) just after you pass through the porch near the Recreational Cycling portico overhang near the NYC Tenements area.
Look for the 1920s Neighborhood Schoolroom.
Look at the list of questions asked to incoming immigrants at what is now Ellis Island in the New York Metropolis Area near Skyscraper City.
Pass into the Crossroads Gallery for a couple of minutes.
Look through the Gallery Space if you like art and photography.
Look around the Native People of New York's area as you pass near the Mastodon.
Visit the inside of the Iroquois longhouse here.Look around the Native People's area for several different artifacts that were uncovered inside this time period and/or look at the to-scale smaller replica of an Iroquois longhouse-village nearby the artifacts behind the glass in the one wall.
Come out from the Native People's area and take a slight right into the Birds of New York Area.
Head towards the Adirondack Wilderness exhibit.Look at the various fossils that were pulled from fossil beds in New York.
Research about some of the various camping equipment that is traditionally used in New York, and read about the effect of canoes within the camping environment in New York.
Look at stuffed wildlife up close.Look at the Colvin Signal Tower.
Get a view of the inside of the WTC Family Trailer.Visit the section on Lumber and the New York Lumber industry's history in this section of the Museum.
View the 1850 era Portable steam engine as you walk down the path leading from Native People's that is on display here.
Contribute to the Elk Pond wishing well if you'd like to donate a coin to the museum.
Try to find the rectangular New York State Historical Marker sign near the Minerals of New York exhibit.
Steer clear of Kids Cove.
There's the Discovery Place near the Fossils exhibit.
Look into more gallery space that includes the Huxley Theater and the West Gallery.
Exit out the door and towards the Museum Shop, crossing through the Main Entrance one last time.
Ride the Elevator or Escalators up to the Fourth floor.
Take a ride on the New York State Museum Carousel.
View some of the other exhibitions on the fourth floor.
Look at the Sailplane and read a little about it's history.
Look at the barrel and Karel Soucek circular hanging items near the restrooms on the fourth floor.Take the fourth floor elevators down to leave using the reverse directions to took to get here.