
Go with your teammates to find cave or clearing that can be easily defended with a good lookout.
Plan the base's structure.
Input the base co-ordinates into the GPS.
Try to keep at least one person at the base at all times.
Choose a weapon for defending your base and If you are going to have a war in an outdoor field so use a weapon with bigger amount of range but if you are going to have a war indoor so use a weapon with normal range.
Alternatively, try the following base weapons:


Primary: Stampede
Secondary: Maverick
Tertiary: Secret Strike.

,
If attacked when you’re guarding your base, your response will be determined by whether or not you see the attack coming.

,
If you can see the attack coming from a distance, turn your primary gun on.
If you get surprise attacked, and the enemy has the advantage, collect everything you can, definitely the backpack and your primary weapon.
Seize the base back.
Leaving the backpack, go off in squadrons of convenient numbers.
Move at a sustainable speed through the woods.
When an enemy is sighted, trap him or her.
When you are within 10 meters (32.8 ft), turn your gun on.
When all ammo has been collected, go in the direction your target went in.

,
If you can see the attack coming from a distance, ready yourself.
If the enemy surprise attacks you, clear out as fast as possible.
If you are a sniper, do the following:


Find a good sniping position on high ground (for example, a rocky outcrop).
Train your sight/scope on the enemy.

,
When he or she is within 10 meters (32.8 ft), fire simultaneously.
If you are attacked as a sniper:


If you can see the attack coming from a distance, there is no real threat, just sniper the enemy down when they enter your vicinity.
Move silently through the woods at a steady pace.
When an enemy is sighted, follow them from a distance.
If the enemy is on his or her own, take him or her down by sneaking up on him or her.
If attacked as an infiltrator or scout:


If attacked by other infiltrators, judge whether or not you can take them down.
Have a sniper to cover your back in case you are under attack by snipers or mg gunners.
Build fear where possible.
Go on the offensive.
Defend your base.
Take cover.
Do not use damaged darts.
Preserve your shots.
Have a secondary always ready.
Trick your enemy into rushing you by having your weapons loaded and ready then yell out that you are out of ammo.
Use code language.
Be practical with equipment.
Be efficient.
Provide cover fire.
Provide cross fire.
Use a "Blitzkrieg".
"Funnel" your team.
Try "Blading".
Do a Hit-N-Run.
Rush the opponent's bunkers.
Use the "Spread Out" tactic.
Draw the enemy's fire to you.
If necessary, it is OK to retreat and re-group.