
To begin your road to exalted with the Netherwing, you have to talk to Mordenai at the Netherwing Fields, east of the Sanctum of Stars which is the Scryer base in Shadowmoon Valley.
After you turn this in, you'll get "Seek Out Neltharaku".
When you're done this quest, Neltharaku will give you "To Netherwing Ledge!",
"Zuluhed the Whacked" is a group quest that required either 4 or 5 good players.
To get to friendly, you need a riding skill of at least 300.
The first of these quests is "Netherwing Crystals" which you need 40 Netherwing Crystals to complete.
Another batch of daily quests come from Yarzill the Merc.
The glands drop from Felboars, Vilewing Chimaera, Felfire Diemetradon, and several other mobs in the same area.
The next daily quest is "The Not-So-Friendly Skies" and you need 10 Netherwing Relics for this.
Once you get Friendly, you'll get a combat pet to help you with quests until you get exalted.
The first quest you get after friendly is from Taskmaster Varkule Dragonbreath, called "Rise, Overseer!".
She will give you "Picking up the Pieces", which is a daily quest.
You can get another quest line to get reputation points called the Murkblood quest chain.
After that, the last part is called "Seeker of Truth" where you have to kill a Murkblood Overseer, found on the north side of the ledge.
Once everything is complete, you must find Chief Overseer Mudlump who will give you "Overseeing and You: Making the Right Choices".
After that quest, you'll get "The Booterang: A Cure for the Common Worthless Peon".
Once you are honored, see Taskmaster Varkule and you'll get "Stand Tall, Captain!".
Illidari Lord Balthas is on Netherwing Ledge, by other quest givers you are familiar with.
He'll give you a quest to kill elementals in the area and the essence is a reward.
Now comes a very much enjoyed part of reputation raising with the Netherwing.
You're revered with Netherwing now and you only need to get exalted to get your Netherdrake.
You will now receive the last of the dailies, which is "The Deadliest Trap Ever Laid", where you have to defend your Aldor or Scryer base from Dragonmaw Skybreakers.
When you finally get to choose your Netherdrake, you'll be flown back to Shattrath City and you will receive your first Netherdrake for free.