
Make sure you have the requirements met before you begin:

The Champion is beaten and you have access to Kiloude City (Required)
You have the Destiny Knot item (Required)
You have the Everstone item (Required)
You have all of the “Power” items (Band, Lens, etc.),
Choose your Pokémon.
Choose your type of Pokémon.
Choose your Pokémon's Nature.
Choose your Pokémon's Egg-Moves.
Catch about 12 of your chosen Pokémon from one of your friend safaris.
Determine your boxed Pokémon’s IVs.
Once you have determined your Pokémon’s IVs, put them in the PC and use the “Marking” to label which perfect IVs the Pokémon has.
Start breeding.
Before really getting into the IV breeding, we first need to add the egg move in.
Put both Pokémon in the daycare on Route 7 and begin to bike around.
To efficiently hatch all of the eggs, put a paper clip under the joystick of your 3DS and set yourself to constantly move in a circle around the tower.
Grab another Pokémon from the box of friend safari Pokémon that has opposite IVs as your new baby.
Once you have a baby with a combination of perfect IVs, use that one to breed so that you can increase your chances of getting perfect IVs.
Continue to breed, combining multiple IVs and using power items to expedite it.
Put the two babies in the daycare with a destiny knot and a power item corresponding to any IV.
Breed the two Pokémon until you get a baby with your desired nature, egg moves, IVs, and Ability.
Use Vitamins to raise your EVs by 10 each.
Use Wings for fine tuning.If you still need more EVs, choose one of the other two methods,
Use Punching Bags in Super Training by selecting specific statistic bag and tapping the screen to have your Pokémon hit the bag.
Try the Soccer Challenge.
Use this handy chart to determine which Pokémon you should battle in order to gain the specific EVs.

,
Go to the area, use sweet scent with one of your party Pokémon to instantly encounter a horde, and begin to battle with your Pokémon you plan to train.
After battling enough hordes, you will max out your EVs.
Wait for your full training to finish.
Once you are done EV training, teach your Pokémon your desired moves through either level up or TM and you are completely finished!

