
Understand what causes hair tourniquet syndrome.Hair tourniquet syndrome is most common in the first four months of your baby's life.
Be aware of the most frequent locations for hair tourniquet syndrome.Hair tourniquet syndrome is when a piece of hair gets wrapped around an extremity or body part in a way that progressively cuts off the circulation to that area.
Keep your baby's environment clean.
Look out for any changes to your baby's circulation.Because a hair tourniquet can compromise the circulation in the affected extremity (or body part), you may notice that area becoming discolored.
Take note if your child is particularly irritable or inconsolable.The "classic presentation" of hair tourniquet syndrome is an inconsolable infant; however, irritability and inconsolability could be due to a variety of other conditions, such as an infection or an injury, so it does not necessarily correlate to hair tourniquet syndrome.

,
Examine for local swelling with a clear boundary.Another thing to look for if you are worried about hair tourniquet syndrome is swelling at the end of an extremity (or body part) with a "clear circumferential demarcation" (a clear border of where the swelling ends, which would equate to where the hair tourniquet is located).
Remove hair tourniquets in the early stages at home.It is key to understand that the best way to prevent hair tourniquet syndrome is to remove any possible hair tourniquets the moment you notice them.
Do frequent checks of your baby's body.If you want to prevent hair tourniquet syndrome, your best bet is to frequently examine the parts of your baby's body that are most prone to developing hair tourniquets.
Cut or unwrap any hair tourniquets that you find.If you do find a hair that has become wrapped around one of your baby's body parts, check to see if it is loose enough for you to cut off with scissors.
See a doctor immediately if you cannot get the hair tourniquet off yourself.Because a hair tourniquet that gets wrapped too tightly and develops into a full-blown syndrome can be very dangerous, you need to take your baby to the Emergency Department immediately.
Ask about anesthesia.Because hair tourniquet syndrome can cause your baby to feel a lot of pain, the doctor treating it will most likely administer some sort of anesthesia prior to removing the hair tourniquet.
Have the doctor remove the hair tourniquet.The doctor can use special instruments such as forceps to get a better grip on the hair, allowing her to remove hairs that you may have had trouble getting off at home.