
Read and understand all the instructions before beginning.
Size up the job.
Recruit an assistant or two.
Choose a mild, dry day, if this is an exterior door.
Measure the door carefully and select the right door.Paint the door before installing it, if you wish.
Gather all supplies.
Clear a work area.

Prepare the lockset, doorknob, and/or deadbolt.


Remove the trim from both sides of the old door, exposing the door frame.
Separate the old door from its frame.

Separate the old door jamb from the frame.

When it is loose, tip the jamb out of the frame and remove it.
Clean up the opening.
Some exterior pre-hung doors come with brick molding already attached.
Look at the door jamb and determine if the hinge screws are sticking through, many times they will be.
Look at doorknob cut-out and be sure that any device used to hold door aligned can be removed after installation.
Check very carefully for any nails going through the jamb into the door, and pull them out.
Pull any staples, shipping materials, etc.
Test fit the new door.

Check the frame for level and plumb and correct any major problems now.Position door so that it can be tipped up into opening, if possible.

Look at the bottom of the new door and get an idea of the areas that will contact the door sill.
Tip door into opening, and adjust in or out till door jamb is flush with wall surfaces.


Begin shimming between the jamb and the door frame.
When the door is shimmed all around, you can test opening and closing it, but be sure to support its weight so that it does not pull out all your careful adjustments.

Install the long screws into each hinge, through the shims, into the frame.
Proceed around to the other shim locations and screw or nail through those into the frame, again checking and adjusting as you go.
When the door jamb is level, plumb and square, install the deadbolt, doorknob, and strike plates.
Cut off the shims so that they are flush with the jamb and rough opening.
Insulate the space between the door jamb and frame.
Replace the trim, adjusting it if necessary.
Caulk around the trim or molding, inside and out.Paint or finish the door, if you didn't already, and paint the trim to match its surroundings.Install weatherstripping, kick plates, and any other accessories.
Method for hanging with molding attached.Measure from floor up, on hinge side of jamb and mark locations of hinges.
Subtract width of door assembly from width of rough opening and divide by 2.
Stack shims up in alternating directions until you get a stack that is equal in thickness to the vertical margin.
Place shim-pack directly over the mark on the framing for the lowest hinge and nail in place.Make another shim-pack.
Place a 6 foot (1.8 m) level against bottom shims and place the shim-pack across top hinge line.Make another shim-pack.
Place level against bottom shims and top shims, and slip the shim pack between level and framing, at the middle hinge, and adjust as above until it is snug against level.Cut excess shim material off slightly narrower than wall thickness.
Look at the door jamb and determine if the hinge screws are sticking through, many times they will be.
Look at doorknob cut-out and be sure that any device used to hold door aligned can be removed after installation.
Check very carefully for any nails going through the jamb into the door, and pull them out.
Pull any staples, shipping materials, etc.Position door so that it can be tipped up into opening, if possible.

Look at the bottom of the new door and get an idea of the areas that will contact the door sill.
Run a bead of caulk on the back of the brick mold near the edge.Tip the new door up onto the caulk.Place door in opening and push hinge side tight to shims, and brick molding tight to outside wall.Nail a 16 penny galvanized finish nail through the brick molding into the wall framing, at the top hinge location.
Now you can carefully open the door and nail another 16 penny finish nail through jamb into framing at the top hinge location.
Check margin between top of door and the head jamb, at the corners.
Nail through brick molding at next hinge location working from top to bottom.
Remove the middle screws from the hinges where they attach to the jamb, and replace with screws of sufficient length to go through shims and into framing at least 1-1/2 inch.
At this point the door is basically hung.Place a 16 penny finish nail through brick mold at top on the latch side of door.
Break off the thin end of a shim until the end is the same width as the margin between the door and jamb.Make another shim pack,
Place spacer between door and jamb at the strike (doorknob).Insert shim pack between jamb and framing at the strike.Adjust shims until they are snug.While pushing the jamb tight to the shim pack, open the door.Nail through jamb into framing at this location as described above.Nail through brick mold at the same location.Repeat this procedure at locations opposite the hinges, as well as in two locations at top of door, and above and below the dead bolt, be careful not to allow shims to cover or block the dead bolt hole.Cut off excess shim stock off and wipe any excess caulk off.Screw sill to floor.Adjust sill to fit door, if necessary.Insulate between jamb and framing.You may now install the trim and any hardware.