
Make a list of as many hobbies, games, activities, occupations, bodies of knowledge, talents, skills, and events that you can think of.
Get an occupation or hobby.
Put yourself out there become interested in other peoples hobbies.
Look for the most boring thing you waste your time on and replace it with something new that you always wanted to be able to do.
Try something new at your scale, with beginner classes, projects and activities rather than expecting brilliant professional results the first time you try.
If you're not a sporty person, try learning an instrument or even a new language.
Become a more passionate and charismatic person.
Work with other people, volunteer at a charity,help out in the community.
Think back: "When was the last time in my life I was actually happy?",
Talk to people that you wouldn't normally talk to.
Socialize and make conversation with new people.
Re-arrange your usual schedule.
Start an interesting and rewarding project.
If you're fond of writing, then you can write some articles, maybe even on wiki How!,
Do what you always wanted to do and try to do as many new things as possible.
Change your diet.
Hang out with other people.
Get wild.
Look fear in the eye.
Make the right choices.
Put yourself out there!,
Look on the positive side of things!,
Change.
Start to flirt with girls/guys.
Sometimes it's good to be spontaneous!,
Do something you have never done before.
Keep a diary.
If you don't know how to start you can invite your friends to sleep over but firstly you have to ask your parents about it!,
Don't try to change your image to be accepted into a club or sport!

,
Make a bucket list!,
Join a class.
Hang out with friends!,
Give yourself a total make-over!,
Remember to be yourself and stay true to yourself.
Do something for a cause.
And lastly, your love life.Go outside more, the more you spend outside the more people you will meet, the more you meet the more likely you get more friends to share your hobbies with

,
If you are single, start to talk more with girls/guys, as mentioned before.

,
Get out of that shell and go out and talk to different people, you might even like to travel around a country for a certain period of time?

,
Step out of your comfort zone, do something different, think of something you've always wanted to do and just do it, like a holiday or an activity.

,
Build something!,
Try to do what THEY like.
This is true for guys too.
Let the other one do what they want to do, don't suggest things.
Do something risky or try something interesting, and dangerous, like BMX, or something crazy, like sky diving or fire breathing!,
If all else fails make a list of 5 things you have always wanted to do (e.g.
Be different!,
Live everyday like a day you want to remember it.
Life is not a bed of roses like people usually say.
You want change to occur in your life?,
After all, have fun!