
First of all, obviously, you have to buy a Gamecube itself.
Now that you've unpacked your new Gamecube and set it up, it's time to go shopping once again- this time for games.
Animal Crossing: This is one of the more unusual games, but it was a smash hit nonetheless.
Baten Kaitos: This series, in the writer's humble opinion, has been very underrated by many gamers.
Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: This RPG/Adventure game might not be for everyone, but it's still worth a look for anyone who's a fan of the Final Fantasy series.
Harvest Moon: A Wonderful Life: Another quirky title, this game revolves around a young man who inherits a farm after the death of his father.
The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker: From one of the more well-known video game franchises comes another must-buy game- The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker.
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess: This game is widely considered to be superior to Wind Waker, and for good reason.
Lego Star Wars/Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy: These two games are very family-friendly, Lego-ized versions of the popular Star Wars franchise, but don't let that turn you off if you're a veteran gamer.
Mario Kart: Double Dash: And of course, we come to the ever-present Mario franchise, a popular series of platforming games involving a plumber named Mario, the evil Bowser, the slightly useless damsel in distress Peach, and other zany characters and game elements.
Metroid Prime/Metroid Prime 2- Echoes: The Metroid series has always been known for its side-scrolling action, its wide selection of weapons and equipment, and its fast-paced, solid gameplay.
Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem: A psychological horror game, Eternal Darkness proves that the Gamecube isn't a totally "kiddie" console.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door: An RPG set in the Mario universe, Paper Mario puts a unique spin on the series; the graphics are a mix of 2D and 3D, and most of the characters look like they are actually made of paper.
Pikmin: One of the best franchises for the Gamecube, the Pikmin series is a real-time strategy game that came out in 2001.
Resident Evil 4: Considered one of the best survival horror games of all time, Resident Evil 4 revolves around a government agent named Leon Kennedy, who is charged with rescuing the president's missing daughter, Ashley.
Soulcalibur 2: One of the best fighting games for the Gamecube, Soulcalibur 2 features easy-to-use controls, a wide selection of characters, and sophisticated and polished gameplay.
Super Monkey Ball 2: A quirky game from SEGA, Super Monkey Ball revolves around a group of....well.....monkeys....in balls, rolling around in complex mazes.
Super Smash Bros. Melee: Easily THE BEST GAMECUBE GAME OF ALL TIME, Super Smash Bros. Melee is a top-notch Gamecube game that simply cannot be missed.