
Get a grasp on what the person thinks of you beforehand.It can help to ask mutual acquaintances what said person thinks of you.
Request help.People like it when they feel like their expertise is acknowledged.
Go the extra mile with your work.
Acknowledge the person's interests.Everyone has a list of interests and values they put a great deal of importance on.
Remind the person of his or her importance to you.Everyone likes to be reminded now and again that their value is noticed by others.
Prioritize your own values before anyone else's.No one likes a sycophant or "yes man".
Be honest.Although honesty applies to a lot more than merely sucking up, sincerity will increase the chances of your success.
Take the opposing side of an argument at first.If you want the other person to respect your opinions, it helps to take the opposing view occasionally.
Flatter the person in moderation.Compliments are helpful, but they'll quickly grow tiresome if you're throwing them at the person in question.
Compliment the person in conversations with other people.You can usually count on people to spread information.
Ask the person about his or her achievements.Flattery usually comes in the form of statements.
Include someone in a group outing.
Dress well.Dressing well does not necessarily mean a three-piece suit or fancy dress.
Be punctual.Punctuality is incredibly important for most work and social situations.
Assume an assertive role.Assertive people make their thoughts and feelings known.
Conform to the expectations of your environment.A person's respectability is defined partially by how well they're able to adjust to a given setting or situation.
Mirror the other person's body language.People gauge others' body language as an indicator of their feelings.
Keep your image consistent.If you want to be received by people as a reliable and trustworthy individual, you should make a point of giving a consistent impression across your interactions.
Maintain a positive attitude.A positive attitude will benefit every aspect of your life.