
Beware of areas that leave you vulnerable to TB.If you live in or have traveled to these areas, or even if you come into contact with someone else who has, you could be at risk.
Examine your working and living conditions.Overcrowded conditions and places with poor ventilation allow the bacteria to spread easily from one person to another.
Consider your own immune health.Having a medical condition that lowers your immune system's natural defenses can be problematic.
Determine whether drugs might interfere with immune function.Any drug abuse, including alcohol, tobacco, and IV substances, can lower your body's natural defenses.
Notice any unusual coughing.TB usually infects the lungs, breaking down the tissue there.
Look for discharge when coughing.Have you noticed any sputum (sticky discharge) when coughing?,
Pay attention to chest pain.Chest pain can suggest a wide variety of issues, but when taken together with other symptoms, they can point to TB.
Take note of unintentional weight loss and lack of appetite.
Do not ignore fever, chills and night sweats.
Beware of latent TB infection.
Be able to distinguish TB from other respiratory infections.There are many other conditions that TB could be mistaken for.
Know when to seek immediate medical attention.Certain signs and symptoms require immediate help.
Arrange for latent TB infection screening if called for.Even if you don't suspect you have tuberculosis, there are cases in which you may have to be screened for latent TB anyway.
Ask for a purified protein derivative (PPD) test.This test is also referred to as tuberculin skin test (TST) or Mantoux test.
Understand how to interpret the results.For different categories of people, there is a maximum induration size considered negative for screening.
Request an IGRA blood test as an alternate to a PPD.IGRA stands for "interferon gamma release assay," and this blood test is more accurate and quick than a PPD.
Follow up on test results.A positive result in either the skin or blood test indicates, at minimum, a latent TB infection.
Follow your doctor's advice after diagnosis.
Consider getting the Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) vaccine.