
Gather the tools and materials you will need to start the project.
Select a piece of appropriate wood.
Set up a sturdy table.
Set your vise on the work surface, and build a standard, or device to support the other end of your stock.
Clamp a drill motor in the vise jaws, securing it as shown in the picture, with the handle and trigger up, so it can be turned on and off as you work.

,
Align the center of the drill chuck by sliding the vise to a position where the chuck is almost touching the standard, and marking this point.

,
Drill a hole through the standard, being careful to keep it in line with the drill chuck, large enough for a number 14 wood screw to pass through.

,
Drive a number 14 wood screw into one end of the stock you are going to make the yo yo from.
Mark the center of the other end of your stock, and drive another number 14 wood screw into it, after first pushing the screw through the hole in your standard.
Tighten the screw in the opposite end of your stock into the drill motor's chuck, positioning the vise so it is aligned with the standard and spaced so that the stock is supported and will turn freely.

,
Clamp or screw the vise down to the work surface so it cannot move.
Start the drill motor slowly, lock the trigger so it stays on, and use the drill's variable speed control (if equipped) to turn the stock piece.
Set the speed of the drill and lock the switch in the on position, and begin to remove material slowly from the stock with a 4 inch (10.2 cm) sander/grinder, or a piece of very coarse sandpaper on a sanding block.
Increase the turning speed when you have turned the stock into a balanced cylinder, and continue removing material until it is the desired diameter.
Using a wood-cutting blade on a hacksaw, or a sharp, fine toothed wood handsaw, cut grooves for the string in the stock.
Using a piece of sandpaper, sand the grooves smooth, inside and out, and sand the edges too, while being careful to maintain equal force (for smooth sanding) and minimal pressure.

,
Use the saw to cut the stock, giving your yo yo its final shape.
Sand and finish the yo-yo as desired.