
Develop a site plan for the location you plan on building your bomb shelter at.
Determine the critical factors to consider in your design.
Hire a geotechnical firm to address drainage, soil density, excavation shoring requirements, and other factors to ensure safe digging and building conditions.
Hire a structural engineer for detailed construction plans.
Talk with your local planning and zoning office to determine what permits and licenses your project will require.Mark out your site, erect silt fences, erosion barriers, and other controls needed to begin clearing and excavation.
Clear sufficient land for your excavation, spoil piles, and haul/storage areas.
Grade the excavation area to a reasonably flat profile.
Start digging your excavation about 150 feet from your actual shelter's footprint.
Dig the bottom of the shelter pit about 4 feet wider than the outside wall dimensions.
Inspect the sides of the excavation often, especially if you enter a different soil layer, to make sure they are stable.
Dig until you reach the excavation requirements, grade the bottom of your pit, and compact the soil.
Form up the foundation for your bomb shelter.
Install the footing and slab reinforcement.
Allow an opening on the end of the slab where your ramp enters your pit for a door.
Place your concrete foundation and slab.
Build or rent forms for your wall concrete placement.
Install and tie the reinforcing bars for your walls.Build beam pockets if your ceiling/roof span requires structural steel support beams (refer to engineer's recommendations) to allow these beams to be installed prior to building the roof.
Set the exterior forms, shore and align them, and place the concrete for these.
Dowel out rebar for the shelter roof from the wall forms.
Pour your concrete walls using the same pump you hired for the floor pour.
Allow the concrete walls to set/cure a minimum of 7 days before removing the forms.
Set up shoring for the roof forms.
Finish fabricating and installing all of your tee jacks.
Install your rebar reinforcing on top of the platform you have built to act as your ceiling form.
Place the bomb shelter roof with concrete.
Backfill around the wall perimeter in lifts, using compaction equipment to ensure the soil is compacted in 8 to 12 inch lifts.
Backfill the excavation over the roof of the shelter carefully, and avoid using heavy equipment directly over the top of it, especially until the first four or five feet of fill has been installed and compacted.
Construct an entrance to your bomb shelter.
Finish constructing your entrance tunnel and backfilling the excavation.