
Launch Poptropica and go to Night Watch Island.Run to the right until you leave the screen and enter the parking lot.
Continue running right until you reach the man wearing a blue “NY” hat.
Run left until you reach the security office, then click on the red buzzer.
Click on “Start” to begin the training course.
Study the first photo, then click on “Next” to view the second photo.
Jump onto the segway and navigate to the right until you see two robots loitering in the mall.
Drive left until you reach the thief robot.
Run left until you reach the security office, then click “Enter” to go into the office.
Click on the blueprint of the mall located at the top right corner of the room.
Exit the security office to re-enter the mall, then run to the right.
Run over to the vibrating massage chair, then click on the chair.
Click on the smartphone to add this item to your inventory.
Click on “Exit” at the door to MacGuffin’s.
Press the “Home” button on the smartphone, then select “Contacts.
Head down the first escalator, then run left until you reach Slugger’s.
Enter “6723” to open the safe.
Click on “Exit” at the door to Slugger’s.
Select the option to use the security camera, then scroll to the light on the ceiling.
Run to the far left side of the mall and go up the escalators until you reach the third floor.
Walk to the right to pick up the toy robot lying on the ground.
Click on “Exit” at the door to Giuseppe’s Toys.
Use the security camera feature to scan possible disturbances at the salon.
Click on the last tanning bed.
Click on “Exit” to leave the tanning salon.
Use the security camera to identify the disturbance.
Go up the escalators to reach the top floor.
Use the security camera feature to look for disturbances at Crawl Mart.
Press the “Home” button on your smartphone, then click on “Contacts.
Click on “Exit” at the door to Good Deals Electronics, then navigate back down the escalators to the first floor.
Click on “Exit” at the door to Crawl Mart.
Click on the shaking port-a-potty.
Click on “Exit” at the door to leave Sizzle Tanning Salon, then continue chasing the snake.
Use the security camera to identify the disturbance at Carnival Costumes.
Run to the far left inside Carnival Costumes.
Walk to the right and position your character in the corner next to the Quick Chargers.Run right to the Good Deal Electronics Shop, then click on “Enter” at the door to go inside the store.Click on “Items” and select the robot toy you picked up earlier at the toy store.
Run to the left until you reach a sign that says “Employees Only.
Run all the way to the right, and click on the piece of paper located in front of the television.
Exit the Good Deals Electronics shop, then navigate to the top floor at the opposite end of the mall.
Navigate to the Atrium located in the middle of the mall, then ride the escalator to the top floor.
Enter the word “frost” into the keypad.
Navigate back to MacGuffin’s, then walk over to the Quick Charger stand on the right.Head back to the Mall Manager’s Office, then walk up to the segway.
Click on “Items,” then select the Quick Charger from your personal inventory.
Click on “Ride” to hop on the segway, then drive the segway to the escalator at the far right.
Navigate to the far left, go up two escalators, then walk to the left until you reach PrintFax.
Click on the printer’s “Menu” button, then click on “Reprint last scan.Exit the PrintFax store, then run to the far right side of the mall.
Go down the escalator to reach the second floor, then walk left until you reach Slugger’s.Navigate back to the Atrium and enter the Mall Manager’s Office.
Click on the Employee of the Month Picture hanging on the wall inside the office.
Run right until you reach the “Coming Soon” store, then click on “Items.
Click on “Enter” to go into the Coming Soon store, then walk to the far right.
Jump onto the ladder, then jump to the right over a metal fan and onto a metal bar.
Jump onto the ladder and climb upward until you reach the burglar.
Use the blowtorch to cut through the metal bars directly above your head.Navigate to the right where the two ladders are positioned, and climb up the first ladder.
Use the blowtorch on the metal bar to the left, then climb through the tunnel until you reach a power box.
Climb back down the ladder, and run through the tunnel until you reach the burglar floating in the air.
Use the blowtorch to cut through the metal bars on the left, and open the power box labeled “A/C.
Use the blowtorch to open the last door on the right, then continue to climb up the ladder.