
Limit the amount of fat in your child's diet.If your child has high cholesterol and you are trying to reduce his or her levels, an important place to start is by reducing your child's daily fat consumption.
Opt for low-fat milk and other low-fat dairy products.One of the easiest ways to cut back on fat in your child's diet is to choose milk and dairy products that are of the lowest fat content possible.
Select whole foods for your child to eat.Many processed foods are high in saturated fat and low in fiber and nutrients.
Include lean protein in your child's diet.
Cook homemade meals and avoid fast or frozen food.The overall health of meals made at home from scratch is far superior to "fast food" alternatives (be it frozen foods or processed foods).
Learn your child's target weight.If your child is overweight or obese, know that this is a big risk factor that contributes to high cholesterol levels.
Increase your child's aerobic exercise.Aerobic exercise is any form of exercise that increases your child's heart rate for a sustained period of time.
Make exercise fun.
Think about making exercise a family activity.It may be easier to motivate your child to exercise if it is something that the whole family gets involved in, such as going to the park to play, or using the weekend to go on an outdoor adventure.
Get your child's cholesterol levels tested.If you suspect that your child may have high cholesterol (due to a family history of the condition, obesity, a poor diet, a sedentary lifestyle, or previous high cholesterol measurements), it is important to have your child's cholesterol values measured.
Have a repeat blood test in three months.If your child's first blood test comes back positive for high cholesterol, the doctor will likely recommend starting with some lifestyle changes (such as changes to your child's diet and exercise).
Start a cholesterol-lowering medication.Medications to lower cholesterol are offered to children over the age of 8, should their cholesterol levels continue to be elevated even after changes to their lifestyle.
Understand the importance of reducing your child's cholesterol.If your child has been diagnosed with high cholesterol, this puts him or her at risk of developing build-ups on the artery walls called "plaques."