
Select a machine for your project.
Compare the rental cost versus the labor cost before investing in a weekend rental.
Check out the range of machines at your rental business, and ask if they do demonstrations and allow customers to become familiar with the machine on their premises.
Look over the operator's manual to be sure to be familiar with the location and exact description of the controls.
Look at warning labels and stickers posted around the machine for other specific warnings or instructions on the particular machine you are going to rent or use.
Have the excavator delivered, or arrange to pick it up from the rental business if you have access to a truck with a heavy duty trailer.
Find a level, clear area to try the machine out in.
Take a look around the machine to see if there is any loose or damaged parts that will make operating it hazardous.
Mount your machine.
Sit in the operator's seat and look around to familiarize yourself with the controls, gauges, and operator's restraint system.
Grip the joysticks, and move them around a bit, to get the feel of their motion.
Look down between your legs, and you will see two long steel rods with handles attached on top.
Look down on the floor boards, and you will see two more, less used controls.
Look on the right side, in front of the instrument cluster and you will see two more levers or control sticks.
Start up your engine.
Start out maneuvering your machine.
Walk the machine around a bit, turning and backing it to get used to the handling and speed of it.
Find a suitable place in your practice area to try out the digging function of the machine.
Lower the dozer blade pushing forward the control handle on the front of the console on your right until it is firmly on the ground.
Move the left joystick forward, and the secondary (outboard) boom segment will swing up (away from you).
Move the left joystick to your left (being sure the bucket is clear of the ground, and there are no obstacles on your left).
Keep practicing with these controls until you have a good feel for what they do.