
Install and launch an official copy of SimCity 4.
Watch the videos and advertisement or click past them.
Click an area from the region map.
Decide on whether or not the region you are given has any worthwhile areas to start building your city.
Click on the "Region View Options" button from the top area.
Decide whether you want to load a different region, or to create a region.
Find a region to load from the list.
Click the "Load Region" button to change the region.

,
Wait a few seconds for the new region to load.
Pick the Create Region button to begin.

,
Type a New Region name into the box.

,
Determine the type of terrain your region will mostly be - plains or very watery.
Click the Create Region button to begin the new region.

,
Click on an area of the region to begin.

,
Determine whether or not you need to terraform the landscape of your "city to-be".
Research and try each of the effects in the Terraform bar on the left side of the screen.
Seed forests (add trees/looks like a duplicate tree icon) with the Terraform tool or place some fauna (looks like a sheep's side-view profile icon) on the terrain.
Look into using some of the one-click global Terrain effects.
Reconcile edges when the terrain needs it or changes have been made to the very edges of the map.
Learn about other things that can happen when you are terraforming in God mode.
Begin the game in Mayor Mode now.
Give your city its own name, and pick your name as mayor, too.
Choose a difficulty level.
Click the Establish City button to begin.

,
Demolish trees and rubbish as you see fit.
Locate a suitable place to set up your city.
Build a power plant from the Utilities tool.
Watch your city's RCI meter.
Watch your Sim money in the game.
Build residential zones away from industrial zones, but close to commercial zones.
Build commercial zones close to residential zones, but also make them be built away from industrial zones by several blocks.
Build industrial zones near polluter power plants and away from residential areas as best as possible.
Recognize that zones have three different densities when you click either of the three main zone types.
Recognize how to fix any mistakes in zoning.
Build roads and infrastructure elements (transportation elements) with the transportation tool.
Build some Civic tools only as your population requests them.
Give your Sims some chances of being able to drink water.
Look into zoning for landfill areas from the Utilities menu (which looks like a filled garbage can icon).
Watch your feedback from your Sims grow.
Watch the scrolling news-bar to find out what is happening in your town.
Find the charts area directly to the right of your RCI meter.
Control your city's building styles in the Building Style Control center.
Read about charts and certain data in your city in the Data Views sheet.
Consult with your SimAdvisors with the Advisor Charts button.
Read the graphs about your city.
Adjust your budget levels to raise income for your city or decrease the income and tax percents to obtain more population to your city.
Read the City Opinion Polls about the status of your citizens when it comes to Environment, Health, Safety, Traffic, Education and Land Value.
Save your game if you'd like to.
Exit the simulation.