
Create the frame of your truck.
Add cabin features to the lowered section of your base.
Create the windshield of your LEGO vehicle.
Fasten fenders to the front of your car.Your fenders, sometimes called a rounded mudguard, should be half circles attached to a flat piece or brick.
Add clear orange pieces to your front end piece.
Sandwich your clear orange pieces with a 2 x 4 plate.
Include lights on the front of your truck.The clear, sloped, red 1 x 1 piece will be attached to the top left and right sides of your front end, in line with the orange transparent pieces you installed earlier.
Plate the very front of your front end.
Attach your front end to the front of your truck.
Connect your hood and air intake to your front end.
Install doors and walls of the bed of your truck.The 1 x 1 circular attachment piece of your doors will have to go on the free stud closest to the front of your car to either side of the truck cabin.
Create your rear end.
Add rear accents to your rear end.
Attach your rear end to your truck.
Roof the cabin of your truck and the front-most part of the bed.Your flat, 4 x 4 piece should completely cover the top of the cabin of your vehicle.
Add a unifying roof piece and a sloped window for effect.To join your cabin and bed together firmly, you should connect both by attaching your 4 x 8 piece to the top.
Fasten your hood cover and railings for the bed.
Construct your front wheels.On a 2 x 4 axle piece, first attach a 2 x 2 block.
Attach the wheel assembly of your car to the front end.Make sure the studs of your spinning piece is lined up like a normal block to make sure its studs attach to the bottom of your front end.
Construct your rear wheel assembly with half axles.
Give your rear wheels enough clearance from the bed of the truck.You can do this by first adding a 2 x 4 block to the top of your rear axle.
Attach your rear tire assembly and add wheels to the axles.Now you can attach your rear wheel assembly toward the back of your truck.
Create a hitch for the rear of your truck.
Link your hitch by pressing its studs into the underside of the bed.
Close off the empty space between the bed and cabin.
Make a step for your cabin.Take your 2 x 4 sloped piece and on top of it add a flat 2 x 4 piece so that the rear four studs of your flat piece hang off the back of your sloped piece.
Add your cabin step and a driver.