
Troubleshoot your front wheel drive system to determine if maintenance is needed.

Look underneath the truck between the wheels and the front differential to see if any visible damage is evident.
Drive the truck on a smooth surface with the windows down, listening for clicking, grinding, or other unusual noises from the front of your truck.
Jack up the front end of your truck and shake the wheels to see if any play is evident.
Rotate the tires while they are off the ground, listening and feeling for anything unusual.
Rock the wheels back and forth and listen for sounds from the CV joints.
Have a mechanic do the inspection if you have any doubts, since the parts needed for this project cost several hundred dollars.
Make a list of the parts you need to complete the project.
Write down the information on your truck before going shopping.

Choose the quality of the parts you want to use.Jack up the truck and set it on jack stands, making sure the wheels are blocked to prevent it from rolling.
Remove the wheel from the side you are working one.
Remove the cotter pin from the axle shaft at the center of the hub.

Remove the brake caliper.

Remove the brake rotor.
Remove the axle nut.

Remove the hub bearing assembly.

Remove the upper ball joint from the knuckle or unbolt it from the upper control (A) arm.
Pull the CV axle off of the differential side shaft.
Remove the oil seal at the side shaft if you are replacing it.
Install the new oil seal at the side shaft.

Slide the new CV axle over the side shaft on the differential.

Guide the outer end of the axle through the center hole in the knuckle.

Install the new hub bearing assembly.
Reinstall (or install a new) the upper ball joint.
Replace the brake rotor.
Reinstall the brake caliper.Install the antilock sensor cable, anchoring it to the brake fluid line and frame in the same locations the previous cable was anchored, if you have replaced the wheel bearing hub assembly and your vehicle is equipped with four wheel antilock brakes.

Install the CV axle nut and tighten it securely.
Put your tire back on the truck and tighten the lug nuts.Test drive the vehicle, making sure the steering feels tight, and there are no unusual sounds from the new parts which could indicate improper installation or other damaged parts.
Return any parts which had a core charge to the retailer you purchased them from, for a refund of the core charge.