
Study how science innovations grow in stages, and so that's how quantum theory of material and light were described beginning in approximately 1899: that was then formulated at the beginning of the 20th century as a result of experiments that were done in various areas of classical physics in which the classical laws of mechanics described by Issac Newton were not able to explain by the previously appropriate mathematical equations of physics/physical science.
Read examples including the failure of Newton's Laws to mathematically measure or deal with the phenomenon of black body radiation (that failing motivated looking for new theories), since black bodies do not emit or reflect light.
Realize that some phenomena related to bending of light (deflected by gravitational fields) around celestial bodies had not given satisfactory results in mathematical equations depicting them, including light around black bodies.
Learn why the application of the concepts of quantization, the quanta of physical observables, seemed to work well with solving the mathematical problems that arose due to failures of Newton's laws to describe, model and satisfactorily allow for newly discovered phenomena.
Evaluate the Schroedinger equation mathematically to depict types of wave forms.
Learn about history and definitions:



Planck's constant h - physical constant of the sizes of quanta in quantum mechanics.
Study the operative theory in mathematics which should be extensive to see whether this theory can continue to be valid in all circumstances (or may be valid only for certain limitations and parameters that might be specified).
Realize that finding any discovery that may lead to weakening of the scientific credibility of a physics equation, as occurred with the theory of relativity, can have catastrophic (change) effects on describing such science: This is true, being applicable in general science and on all other fields of sciences that rely in their scientific development on the formulations of these fundamental equations when they are not all directly observable and so they are theoretically based (derived by describing them mathematically).

,
Be very cautious when building and formulating new theories in science because of pitfalls and defects in your theory can jeopardize its scientific credibility and could eventually lead to its invalidation (for example: inconsistency).

,
Apply similar discussion to other theories in physics and other testable sciences.