
Gather your group of friends to play this game with.
Decide who will be the Game Master (GM).
Understand the rules of the game.
Gather information about Pokémon from everywhere.
Choose the generation/region you’ll play in.
Prepare your Trainer Sheet.Note down your full name.
Decide the Money you’ll start.
Pick some pokeballs.
Gather some experience.
Gather more experience.
Choose a starter Pokémon.
Prepare a Pokémon Sheet for your starter Pokémon.Note the species of the Pokémon.Give it a nickname if you want.Note its type.
Decide your stats.
Set the experience of your Pokémon.
Calculate and note down the HP.
Buy moves.
Roll a 6-sided dice to determine whether you’ll encounter a wild Pokémon or not.
Check the Level of the Pokémon you sent out to fight.
Determine the Stats of the wild Pokémon.
Check the Speed of both Pokémon.
Attack the Pokémon.
Defend you.
Subtract the Damage from your HP.
Apply a Special Condition (if any), such as Paralyze, Poison, etc.
Claim your reward.
Fight the Pokémon and reduce its HP.
Use an empty Pokeball.
Roll the dice as many times equal to the Catch Rate of the Pokeball.
Calculate the sum of all the values and compare.
After capturing a Pokémon, make its Pokémon Sheet as mentioned above.
Find a Trainer/Gym Leader to fight with.
Decide the number of Pokémon to use in the battle.
Try to beat your opponent.
For defeating every trainer, you gain 30 Trainer TXP and AXP.
Roll the dice 20 times to complete a route.
Try to complete a story or a quest in a particular city.
Try to defeat the Gym Leader in that city.
Participate in the Local or Domestic Pokémon tournaments.
Use the Pokémon AXP to increase Stats.
Use Pokémon AXP to learn stronger moves.
Check the amount of TXP you have.
Check if the Pokémon needs any supplement.
Take the permission of the GM and evolve it when your Pokémon is eligible for evolving.
Create the main plot of the story or quest.
Decide the solution of the story.
Narrate the story to the players participating.
Check the amount of money you have.
Buy good balls to capture stronger Pokémon.