
Give your fabric a good ironing.
Measure the width and height of the inside of your window where the shade will be hanging.

,
Cut out your fabric adding 1/2" to each side and 4" to the length.

,
Take your lining and mark out your measurements for the tube tape (show below) with pins.
Keep in mind that tube tape is a fantastic product that has little loops along the top of the tape for running nylon cord through (as shown above) and a pocket along the bottom (shown below) where you can insert a dowel.
Pin down the tube tape.
Pin your tape down with the bottom of the tape right above the marking pin (as shown on the right).
Lay your next row of tape down, once again above the pin marking (refer to above photo).
Continue laying out and pinning your rows of tape until you have five rows completed.
Baste your tape onto the lining.
Stitch the lining to the fabric!,
Trim the bottom corners and flip them right side out, making sure the corners are neatly pushed out.
Press the edges of the shade out flat.

,
Find a slat of some sort to push into the bottom of your shade.
Slide the slat between the fabric and lining down to the bottom of the blind.
Stitch the tape again!,
Carefully stitch in the "ditch", as you can see in the above picture.This will eliminate any chance of accidentally stitching the loops shut.
Get your 1" x 2" board - measured and cut to fit inside the width of the window (ours was 45.75"), dowels, circle screws, velcro, nylon cord and cord drop.

,
Using leftover fabric, "upholster" the 1" x 2" board.
Staple the "hook" side of the velcro to one edge of the board.In this example, we stapled the velcro right over the staples fastening the fabric underneath, so everything is neat and tidy.

,
Stitch the "loop" part of the velcro to the lining side of the shade.

,
Stitch down both sides of the velcro.
Measure out and predrill holes for the little circle screws.Start by measuring in 2" on each end.
Pull it all together with your nylon cord.Decide which side you want to have your cord drop (the side you want to pull the shade up) and start working on the opposite side of the shade.
Just to make sure that knot doesn't come untied in the future (the nylon cord can be slippery), try stitching your knot together with a regular needle and thread.
Insert the dowels into the little pockets in the bottom of the tube tape.
Pull your blind up and adjust the folds.