
Get a camera, preferably a DSLR camera, and not a point and shoot.
Practice - Offer free pet photo shoots to friends, family, neighbours etc.Create a Website - Anyone can create a website nowadays, and this is definitely the best way to show off your great portfolio of pet portraits and find new clients.
If you are only just starting, a studio may be too expensive, so you can consider offering location shoots.
Arrange for a studio, whether at home or a hire-out studio.
Once you have set up a desirable studio space and a backdrop, make sure that the area you're using is safe for animals.
Set up studio lighting.
Make sure to position your camera lights at a diagonal from your backdrop.
Keep your animals controlled somewhat, or they will mark their territory.
Wait for the animal you're photographing to be comfortable with the environment.
Once you have got round the introduction process, Try to make the animal comfortable in-front of your studio lights.
If you are working with a cat, try catnip, or ask the owner to give the cat some attention.
Make sure that the eyes are always in-focus and nice and sharp in your photo.
Try to avoid posing your subjects.
If you are using a Digital Camera, check on the job how your photos are turning out and figure out what you'd change in them, if you find it too awkward to check on your camera, use a cable to send them straight to a laptop or computer in your studio as you take them, they will appear on screen.
Avoid unnecessary distractions, and always keep one eye on both your subjects, if you are not using a tripod, you can get closer, pull up a chair or lay down on the floor and photograph while you talk.

,
Don't just shoot head on, implement the rule of thirds.

,
Break the rules if you have a good reason.
Try shooting from lower down, so that the subject is looking over the camera, as if when someone 'talks down' to you, or shoot from aerial perspective, not literally take the roof off but shoot overhead, there is a visual hierarchy and an important element of composition involved in this, perspective, purpose, intent.. this will play a big role in all of it.

,
A good tip for photographing a pet owner, whether individually, for portrait or other reason, is to get them to turn their body slightly and then turn their head towards the camera (this is not a 'touch-up', it will compliment their figure and bring out their physique.Retouching images using photo editing software is a great way of ensuring that the crop, white balance and exposure of your images is correct and of a professional quality.