
Purchase 6 cuts of veal scaloppine or 6 thinly cut chicken breasts.
Cover the cutlets with plastic wrap and flatten to 1/4" (.6cm).
Place one sage leaf on top of each cutlet.
Lay a slice of prosciutto on top of the sage leaf.
Use 1-2 toothpicks to hold everything together.
Place the flour in a shallow dish and season liberally with salt and pepper.
Dredge the front and back of the meat with flour.
Heat 3 tablespoons of butter in a frying pan on medium-high heat.
Cook 1-2 of the floured cutlets in the pan, prosciutto side down, for three minutes.
Flip and cook the second side for two minutes, until the center is no longer pink.
Remove the chicken from the pan and add the white wine.
Add the chicken or veal stock and simmer until the sauce is about one-third it's original amount.
Melt 1 tablespoon of butter into the sauce and stir.
Spoon the sauce over your chicken and serve immediately.
Preheat your oven to 250F/120C.
Flatten your chicken or veal cutlets to roughly 1/4" (.6cm) thickness.
Heat half the butter in a sauce-pan on medium heat.
Cook about half the meat for two minutes on each side, until browned.
Transfer the cooked chicken to a baking sheet and place in the hot oven.
Add more butter and cook the remaining meat.
Place the cooked meat on a baking sheet and top each piece with prosciutto and fresh sage.
Turn the oven up to broil.
Add one cup (240ml) of white wine to the pan you cooked the meat with and scrape up any bits on the bottom.
Pour any juice from the backing sheet into the sauce, then put the chicken in the oven.
Lower the heat of the sauce to a simmer and add 1 tablespoon butter.
Broil your saltimbocca for 1-3 minutes, until prosciutto is crispy.
Remove the meat and garnish with sauce, serving immediately.
Melt Fontina cheese on the tops of the cutlets for a decadent dinner.
Add shallots, mushrooms, and/or garlic to your sauce for a more robust flavor.
Plate the saltimbocca on a bed of wilted spinach for a traditional meal.
Marinate the chicken ahead of time for more flavor options.
Fry your sage leaves in olive oil for a traditional and savory garnish.