
Be sure to have a written contract that states that substitutions for preexisting materials cannot be made without prior written approval and dissemination of information.
Have a written contract that mandates that all materials will be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s warranty instructions, unless information is disseminated and approved in writing on an exception basis by the homeowner.
You are eligible in most cases to receive services within your county of jurisdiction so that you need not be pressured into working with vendors that are far away or areas that do not represent your current level of quality and servicing.
The construction company will show you (if you hire them directly) or the insurance company (if it is one of their preferred suppliers) a proposal for reconstruction.
Ask for a schedule of their activities in a rough approximation.
Carefully document your selections in writing to avoid any misunderstanding.
Many insurance contractors will advocate that they can “master all trades” and be the contractor for every aspect of the renovation.
Ask for the right upfront to be able to discuss needs with subcontractors as the work proceeds with the general contractor present.

,
Do not allow the contractor to put up an exterior lawn sign of his business in plain view of anyone riding or walking by, especially if it is a known national insurance contractor franchise.
If your contractor states that some aspect of construction has a problem that has evolved, make sure to have the contractor take ownership of the recommended course of action to remedy the situation.
As you sign off on selections, make sure that you identify that you have signed for the selection in general but not the measurements or technical aspects of having the selection installed.
Insist that all workers be insured and free of prior convictions.
Get a mechanics waiver of lien prior to final payment for the reconstruction.

,
Consider having a construction management advisor for several visits as repairs proceed to double-check the work and quality.

,
The biggest damage afterwards from a fire is the damage from the water and potential mold that may takes years to creep in.