
Be safe first.
Be sure of the correct process and sequence of loosening and tightening of nuts and bolts which can be very important to keep from warping/ruining parts.
Avoid using the wrong tool, loose or improper tool slipping off, or wrong size screwdriver can all ruin screws and nut/bolt heads before you get some of the hardest ones to access loose.
Search for videos and discussions online about a problem that you are thinking about tackling or in the middle of doing.
Get a "Haynes" manual (which is for less experienced users) from the parts store; even a pro uses a manual to perform repairs.
Familiarize yourself briefly with the complete layout of the manual.
Keep records of "Scheduled Maintenance" under your warranty which must be proven by receipts and records such as a log furnished by the dealer or the warranty provider.

,
Realize that the electrical section for fuses/fuse boxes (trickier than you might think) are often very poorly labeled, charts are poor, differ by year and by model, and are nearly illegible (hard to read).
Start with small and simple: Repairing your vehicle assumes that you know what's wrong with it.
Diagnose the problem.
Gather tools and supplies needed for the job.
Prepare the area.
Follow the manual order and method instructions.
Develop a system for placing parts that you had to remove to just get to the defective part in such a way that they will be easier to reassemble, replace properly, such as setting a bracket down correctly oriented, with it's accompanying hardware placed right by where it goes, rather than all jumbled in a pile.
Take pictures.
Draw a picture before dis-assembly -- or if you have to, get someone else to draw pictures and work on labeling them with you.

,
Use nail polish, or a number of clear scratches to mark the spot for alignment of parts.
Realize that each repair is a relearning or learning process.
Study each problem thoroughly before beginning: If you are in any doubt as to your ability to perform a needed repair, read the manual step-by-step R&R for that repair, re-read it; it will give you a pretty good idea whether you're up to it or not.

