
Decipher if the wearer really needs their diaper changed.
Determine which type of cloth adult diaper you need to use.
Fold the diaper (if needed) in advance of the diaper change.
Determine where you’d like to change the wearer's diaper.
Grab a hold of all needed items excluding (for a moment) the wearer in question.
Lay a waterproof changing pad (such as either an adult waterproof pad or Goodnites Underpads) on the changing surface to prepare a mess-free changing environment.
Bring the adult diaper-wearer over to the changing area and lay them down on the pad so that their rear end is in the pad's center core.
Make sure to keep an area near the changing area open to receive any of the dirty clothes from the wearer's ensemble and will need to be changed out of.
Remove any and all of the wearer's outer clothes (including the rubber pant).
Look for and remove any diaper pins that exist on the diaper.
Pull the diaper outwards from the center of the person's stomach and lay the diaper flat onto the changing surface.

,
Roll the person over onto their side, and pull out the dirty diaper from underneath the wearer, but do not slip a clean diaper underneath the wearer just yet.
Use a diaper wipe or wet cleaning cloth to clean the person's rather-sensitive genital areas from urine or fecal matter that may have settled there.
Place a smear of diaper rash cream on their behind as well as in the genitals near their diaper region.
Spread the freshly-folded diaper onto the surface then roll the person back onto their back.
Fold the diaper up, over and around the wearer's genitals until the diaper's top center has met the wearer's waistline.
Flare out and position both sides of the back portion of the diaper a little (if this diaper is of the non-prefolded style).
Secure the diaper in place.
Repeat these steps for the opposite side.
Clothe the wearer back into a pair of rubber pants.
Re-dress the wearer in their applicable clothes.
Dispose of any poop from the soiled diaper into a toilet, and roll the diaper carefully up into a ball.
Clean up the changing area.
Place the dirty cloth diaper into a small plastic bag, seal, and place it into the diaper pail nearby.