
Get a broke horse.
Bathe your horse a day or so before the show, so the natural oils can replenish the horse’s coat.
Clip his legs, muzzle, face, ears and bridle path, and pull his mane to about three inches long.
You will need to “bang” your horse’s tail, or cut it blunt across the bottom if you are showing a stock horse.
If showing a stock breed, you must band your horse's mane.
Brush your horse well with a soft brush and re-clip his face, muzzle, ears and bridle path if you need to.

,
Dampen a cloth with a mixture of rubbing alcohol and water, and run this over your horse’s body and face to get all the fine dust out.

,
Spray him with a shining spray, except on the saddle area.
Brush your horse’s tail carefully and tie in a tail extension if you use one.
The padding under your show saddle blanket should be sufficient to be comfortable to your horse, but make sure that you cannot see the "under pad" on the sides of the show blanket.

,
Saddle your horse.
Don’t forget to clean your stirrups and girth, too.
Pin your number to your saddle pad or to your show shirt.
Spray your horse with fly spray and then more shining spray.
Rub his muzzle, eyes, ears and bridle path with highlighter.

,
Get yourself ready.
Your show shirt should be nicely fitted to allow the judge to see your upper body position.
A belt buckle should be worn, and while award buckles are best, there are many attractive buckles available at western wear stores that would suffice.

,
Ladies hair should be pulled back, and put into a bun, or up in your hat, taking care that you have no "fly aways.",
Wear colors that are complementary to your horse.
To prepare to enter the ring, bridle your horse, tighten your cinch and mount.

,
Ride around the warm up ring, and practice all of the gaits you will be performing in the ring - walk, jog, lope, stop, and back.
After your warm-up, you can dismount briefly if you wish, or have a helper to "touch up" your horse.
If possible, don’t enter the ring with a bunch of other people at the same time.
Sit upright, but not stiffly, look ahead and smile.
Remember to have a good time.