
Create a title.
Type in your event page's web address.
Edit your page.
Notice the Event Completion Monitor .
VIEW LIVE!,
Make sure you are complete.Enter in the total capacity for your event if you have a limited amount of tickets available.
Add the name of your ticket type here.Write the total number of tickets available for this ticket type.
Enter the price of your ticket type here.
Enter any information about the ticket type.
Add the minimum tickets per purchase: Enter the minimum number of tickets an attendee can purchase at one time.
Write the maximum tickets per purchase: Enter the maximum number of tickets an attendee can purchase at one time.
Choose yes if you want this ticket to be available for purchase.
Go into the 'Show Remaining Tickets': Choose 'Yes' if you want to show the remaining tickets on the event page.
Look at the display description: Choose yes if you want to display the ticket description on your event page.


,
Enter the contact email that your attendees can reach you at in regards to all ticket related questions.Choose the event category that best describes your event.
Choose if the event will be public?.
Choose your payment setup: The final step of creating your event allows you to choose which payment method you'll use to process your customers' ticket purchases.
Banner Image.
Share Image: Drag and drop or upload an image from your computer.
Event Description: Enter all event information that your attendees will need to know for the event.
Collect custom data: Custom Questions allow you to collect any extra data from your attendees.
Upload sponsor logos: Seamlessly integrate your sponsorship logos within your event page.
Send an invitation: Send email invitations to your attendees either individually or through uploading a list.
Add your Facebook page: Publish your Ticketbud event to Facebook to increase traffic and tickets sales.
Show up in search?,
Only people I invite may attend?,
Publicly display attendee list?,
Allow Reviews/Questions & Answers?