
Reach the appropriate rank.Ordinarily, to become a Marine sniper you must reach at least the rank of Lance Corporal (E-3), and be no higher than the rank of Sergeant (E-5).
Have excellent vision.
Have yourself medically cleared.The missions which snipers complete can be physically grueling, and so snipers are required to be in excellent health, with no recurring illnesses or health problems.
Score well on the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) test.To be eligible to be trained as a Marine sniper, you must score at least 100 on the General Technical (GT) section of the ASVAB, which evaluates your knowledge and potential in fields such as mathematical reasoning and mechanical comprehension.

,
Have a current Secret clearance, or be eligible to obtain one.The Department of Defense issues personal security clearances at the Top Secret, Secret, and Confidential levels.Since Marine snipers are often involved in highly specialized missions, you must have reached Secret clearance before you can begin sniper training.
Receive an “expert” rifle qualification.Excellent marksmanship is an essential skill of any sniper, and so the Marines must qualify you beforehand at the “expert” level of rifle usage.

,
Have no record of getting a court marshall or receiving Non-Judicial Punishment (NJP) within the last six months.Marine snipers are a select, elite group entrusted with highly specialized missions.
Have at least 24 months remaining in the Marine Corps, and/or be scheduled to deploy with your unit after completing sniper training.The training provided to Marine snipers is extensive and takes significant time to complete.
Have no existing family or financial problems that would prevent you from undergoing sniper training.Marine sniper training and service requires great focus.
Consider completed recommended training.Certain qualifications are not necessarily required to begin sniper training, but having them may increase your chances of being selected for the program.
Serve in a battalion scout-sniper platoon.Battalion-level sniper training is available for candidates who pass a two-week indoctrination course.
Pass physical fitness tests.As soon as you begin training as a Marine sniper, you will need to pass physical fitness tests (PFT) at a first class level (score of 225).
Volunteer to attend a Scout Sniper basic course.In order to become a Marine sniper, you must complete a training course at one of the four School of Infantry locations.
Complete Phase 1 of the Scout Sniper basic course, Field Skills and Known Distance Marksmanship.
Complete Phase 2 of the Scout Sniper basic course, Stalking and Unknown Distance Marksmanship.
Complete Phase 3 of the Scout Sniper basic course, Mission Planning and Employment.
Consider being either a spotter or a sniper.Marine sniper courses actually cover training for two roles, snipers and spotters.
Complete an advanced sniper course.The Marines Special Operations School offers a four-week course to certify existing snipers at the advanced level.