
2006 Prius Bulb cost about $11 at auto parts chain store.
TIP: Save yourself some pain, replace both bulbs or you will be changing the other one in a few weeks.

,
Cut your fingernails.
Open hood of car.

,
For driver's side bulb, remove the fuse box cover by first pressing on the front side (press toward back and lift up), no need to monkey it off one side at a time by pressing anything that looks like a latch (that's a good way to break the tabs).
For passenger side bulb, remove plastic cover (dust cover in front) under hood of your Prius.
If bad bulb is on Passenger side: remove small air duct blocking headlight.
Remove waterproof cover by turning ~30 degrees.
Remove electrical connection to bulb by standing at the driver's side fender, face forward with your right hip on the side of the fender.
On the hard plastic holder mark the position of the square raised bump on the boot (use a piece of tape).
When the boot is loose from the rim slide your flat hand under it (palm to the front of the car) and wiggle it off the plug end of the lamp.
To take the old bulb out use the mirror to inspect the wire bail bulb holder.
Look in the front of the headlight and note the flat side of the hole that corresponds to the flat metal base on the bulb.

,
It may be useful at this point to practice putting in the old bulb and fastening the wire retaining bale/spring/wire.

,
Replace the new bulb WITHOUT touching the glass part of it nor getting it dirty (think rubber gloves) TIP: You can look through the front lens to see the Bulb alignment.
Snap retainer spring back into place.
Note the "TOP" of the boot, and slide the small hole over the bulb by pressing on each of the four rectangles imprinted on the boot.
Re-rotate the boot back on clock-wise (as viewed from engine facing forward) back into place by pressing it back in the track and using the shaft of the screwdriver to rotate the boot back to its tight position at the mark.
TIP: Test lights as you replace each bulb and before you put everything back in place

,
Replace fuse box cover.

,Replace small air duct on Passenger side

,
Replace plastic engine cover.

,
Wipe your hand and pat yourself on the back as you close the hood.
Go get a cold beer as you realize you just saved a squid-load of money!