
Do not try to stop your child’s convulsions.
Have your child lie down or help them lie down.
Remove their glasses, if necessary.
Move your child away from potential hazards, such as a stove, furniture, stairs, or traffic.
Do not put anything in their mouth to prevent them from biting their tongue.
Allow your child to sleep after a seizure if they are tired.
Check their breathing as they sleep.
Avoid giving your child any food, water, or oral medication right after they have a seizure.
Be aware that seizure treatment for children is different than for adults.
Allow your child’s doctor to administer Lorazepam to stop their seizures.
Let your child’s doctor administer Midazolam to ease your child’s seizures.
Be aware of the side effects of Lorazepam and Midazolam.
Let your child’s doctor administer Phenobarbital as a last resort.
Ask your child's doctor to prescribe Sodium Valproate.
Have a qualified pediatrician or neurologist analyze your child and prescribe anti-epileptics.
Make sure your doctor conducts regular blood checks and liver function tests if your child is taking anti-epileptics.
Give your child melatonin tablets to increase the amount of melatonin in their brain.
Ask your child’s neurologist about a ketogenic diet.
Understand how a ketogenic diet works.
Consult with your neurologist and a nutritionist before putting your child on this diet.
Ask your child’s doctor about vagus nerve stimulation treatment (VNS).
Understand how vagus nerve stimulation treatment works.
Be aware of the risks and side effects of VNS.These include injury to your child’s vagus nerve or nearby blood vessels, including the carotid artery and jugular vein.With any surgical procedure, there are also risks such as infection, bleeding and an allergic reaction to the anesthesia.

,
Get a referral for a biofeedback specialist for your child.
Ask your child’s doctor about lesionectomy surgery, but keep in mind this is major surgery.
Talk to your child’s doctor about surgery on your child’s Corpus callosum.
Discuss multiple subpial transection (MST) surgery with your child’s doctor.
Talk to your child’s doctor about lobe resection, but be aware of how invasive the procedure is.
Ask your child’s doctor about functional hemispherectomy surgery but be aware it is a drastic option.
Check if your child stares or blinks with no awareness of their surroundings for a few seconds to a few minutes.
Pay attention if your child continually chews, smacks their lips or claps, and then lapses into a confused state.
Notice if your child experiences rhythmic jerking and muscle spasms for 2-5 minutes.
Be aware your child will be sleepy and confused after a convulsive seizure.
If your child is younger than 2 years old, notice if they have seizures that last more than 30 minutes.
Check if there is a history of seizures in your family.
Have your child checked for an upper respiratory infections or infections that cause high fever.
Get your child tested for zinc deficiencies.
Check if your child is suffering from meningitis, metabolic disorders or a head injury.
Understand why seizures occur.
Recognize the two different types of seizures.