
Find Power Brick 1 (Chapter 1: Negotiations): Only available in Free Play after unlocking an astromech droid and a high jumper.
Find Power Brick 2 (Chapter 2: Invasion of Naboo): Only available in Free Play after unlocking a bounty hunter.
Find Power Brick 3 (Chapter 3: Escape from Naboo): Only available in Free Play after unlocking a bounty hunter and The Emperor.
Find Power Brick 4 (Chapter 4: Mos Espa Pod Race): Available in Story Mode.
Find Power Brick 5 (Chapter 5: Retake Theed Palace): Available in Story Mode.
Find Power Brick 6 (Chapter 6: Darth Maul): Only available in Free Play after unlocking an Imperial Storm trooper or Officer.
Find Power Brick 7 (Chapter 1: Bounty Hunter Pursuit): Available in Story Mode.
Find Power Brick 8 (Chapter 2: Discovery on Kamino): Only available in Free Play after unlocking an Imperial Storm trooper or Officer.
Find Power Brick 9 (Chapter 3: Droid Factory): Available in Story Mode.
Find Power Brick 10 (Chapter 4: Jedi Battle): Only available in Free Play after unlocking a bounty hunter.
Find Power Brick 11 (Chapter 5: Gunship Calvary): Available in Story Mode.
Find Power Brick 12 (Chapter 6: Count Dooku): Only available in Free Play after unlocking a bounty hunter and a short character.
Find Power Brick 13 (Chapter 1: Battle Over Coruscant): Available in Story Mode.
Find Power Brick 14 (Chapter 2: Chancellor in Peril): Only available in Free Play after unlocking a bounty hunter.
Find Power Brick 15 (Chapter 3 General: Grievous): Only available in Free Play.
Find Power Brick 16 (Chapter 4: Defense of Kashy): Only available in Free Play after you unlock a bounty hunter and The Emperor.
Find Power Brick 17 (Chapter 5: Ruin of the Jedi): Only available in Free Play after you unlock a high jumper.
Find Power Brick 18 (Chapter 6: Darth Vader): Only available in Free Play after unlocking an astromech droid.
Find Power Brick 19 (Chapter 1: Secret Plans): Only available in Free Play after unlocking a bounty hunter or an Imperial Stormtrooper or Officer.
Find Power Brick 20 (Episode IV Chapter 2: Through the Jutland Waste): You can't get to this power brick in story mode.
Find Power Brick 21 (Episode IV Chapter 3: Mos Eisley Spaceport): available during free play.
Find Power Brick 22 (Episode IV Chapter 4 Rescue the Princess): Available only in free play.
Find Power Brick 23 (Episode IV Chapter 5 Death Star Escape): You can't get to this power brick in story mode.
Find Power Brick 24 (Episode IV Chapter 6 Rebel Attack): At the very end of this level, before you shoot the torpedo into the death star, go to the top right and in the corner there should be a opening go inside and the red brick is there.
Find Power Brick 25 (Episode V Chapter 1 Hoth Battle): Only available in free play after unlocking a TIE fighter or a TIE bomber.
Find Power Brick 26 (Episode V Chapter 2 Escape from Echo Base): Only available in free play after unlocking a Sith.
Find Power Brick 27 (Episode V Chapter 3 Falcon Escape): Achievable in story mode.
Find Power Brick 28 (Episode V Chapter 4- Regenerate Hearts): This is located behind the grate that you have to use the dark force on it (second area).
Find Power Brick 29 (Episode V Chapter 5): Only available in free play mode after unlocking a bounty hunter and an astro-droid.
Find Power Brick 30 (Episode V Chapter 6 Betrayal Over Bespin): You have to do this in free play.
Find Power Brick 31 (Episode VI Chapter 1 Jawa's' Palace): May be done in story mode.
Find Power Brick 32 (Episode VI Chapter 2 The Great Pit of Carkoon): You need to work your way over to Jabba's barge and on the far set of masts (hold the sails up), you will find the red power brick.
Find Power Brick 33 (Episode VI Chapter 3 Speeder Showdown): ONLY AVAILABLE IN FREEPLAY!,
Find Power Brick 34 (Episode VI Chapter 4 Super Ewok Catapult): This is located in the bunker at the end of the level.
Find Power Brick 35 (Episode VI Chapter 5 Jedi Destiny): Turn all the circles behind Papeltine's throne with the dark force.
Go to the reactor of the Death Star in Episode VI Chapter 6.
Purchase power bricks.
Activate power bricks.