
Find out if you have health insurance.One of the key things to look into as a young adult is whether or not you have some form of health insurance coverage in place.
Find a doctor in your area.Many young people encounter the challenge of finding a new family doctor (and/or new specialists) when they move away from their hometown.
Determine when you are due for your next routine checkup.There have been varying recommendations as to the frequency with which you should receive routine checkups.
Schedule an appointment.
Gather your relevant medical information for your doctor.It is important that your doctor has a full list of any ongoing health concerns or past serious health issues you have encountered (such as episodes requiring hospitalization, past surgeries, and/or other major health concerns that you have faced in your life).
Be prepared to discuss your lifestyle choices openly.In order to do a full and thorough review of your overall health, your doctor will need to ask you personalized questions, including questions around your lifestyle.
Disclose any new family history of disease.In order to assess your risk for various diseases, your doctor will also need to know a detailed family history.
Take note of any specific concerns you have for this visit.Last but not least, as you prepare for your routine checkup, be sure to write down any unusual or concerning symptoms you have been experiencing lately.
Discuss any new concerns and the plan for the appointment.Because appointments with your doctor generally take place with a limited time frame, it is important to set a plan at the start of the appointment as to what will be covered.
Receive any general screening or vaccinations that you are due for.Your routine checkup is a chance to receive screening tests and/or vaccinations that you are due for.
Have a physical exam.There are normally very few abnormal things that are found on a physical exam in young adults, simply because the probability of having serious health concerns at this age is much lower than it is in older adults.
Talk about any changes to your health management.
Do not wait for your routine checkup if you have a problem.If you have any concerns about your health, it is best to book an appointment with your family doctor sooner rather than later.
Go to the Emergency Department for severe problems.
See your doctor more often for ongoing health concerns.If you have ongoing health concerns, you will likely need to see your doctor more frequently, such as every three months.