
Place brake casing into a soft jawed vise with end plug (6) in a vertical position.
Remove bleeder screws (19), using a 7/16” socket and ratchet or box end wrench.Remove hex nut (1) from compensator assembly (9), using a ½’ socket,Remove belleville spring (2) wedge ring (3) washer (4) and o-ring (5) from compensator assembly (9).Using a spanner wrench, remove end plug (6) from housing ( 18),
when removing the end plug (6) from the housing, the compensator assembly should remain in the piston.Remove piston (10) and lining (11) assembly from housing bore.
Remove flat head screws (12) to separate lining (11) and piston (10).
Notice that the right hand screw has been broken off.
Remove compensator assembly (9) from piston (10), using an 11/16” open end wrench .When the compensator assembly has been removed, carefully inspect the threads for damage, making sure that all old locktite material has been removed from the threads,Remove o-ring (8) and backup ring (7) from end plug (6),Using a thin blade tool, or a pick tool, remove backup ring (14), o-ring (13), and seal (15) from housing bore.
Remove flat head screws (16) and lining (17) from housing bore.
If the lining is in good shape, clean and set it aside as spare parts to be reused in the event that anther lining wears out.
Notice the white powdery substance along the perimeter of the threads.
Using a mild wire brush and brake parts cleaner, or any other solvent which does not contain petroleum distillates, such as electrical parts cleaner, naptha, or isopropyl alcohol, thoroughly clean the entire end plug assembly.
Using a rounded object (in this instance a 6” ratchet extension), and 400 to 600 grit emery cloth, clean out the inside of the end plug.
Since usually one or more of the fastening screws for the lining will be sheared off, now the sheared off portion of the screw needs to be drilled out.
Run a tap through the holes to clean out the threads.
Before installing the new lining into the housing, first double check to make sure the mating surface of the housing is well cleaned of all rust and debris.Mask off all the areas where paint will not be applied, and prime the area where the lining seats to protect it from corroding again.Set the housing aside for the paint to dry while working on the piston and compensator assembly.
Carefully install new back-up ring (7) and o-ring (8) over non-threaded end of plug (6) and into groove.