
Decide if you truly want to visit Disneyland.
Pack everything you'll need.
Drive and park at the parking structure near the resort.
Take a tram from the parking structure to the park entrance.
Purchase your tickets.
Enter through the turnstiles.
Try not to stop and linger at the floral arrangement that gleans near the turnstiles.
Walk underneath the archway that takes you underneath the Disneyland Railroad.
Study the map of Disneyland.
Look around here.
Stop by the Great Moments with Mister Lincoln theater show.
Watch a showing of the classic Steamboat Willie movie in the Main Street Cinema.
Take a spin around the park on the Disneyland Railroad.
Check out some of the names of some of the creators who made Disneyland possible up and down Main Street in the Main Street Windows decals.
Ride in other transportation vehicles.
Take in at least part of a show at the Main Street Cinema.
Shop in the stores along Main Street.
Get a bite to eat here.
Stop by the Main Street Opera House in Town Square.
Look at the sculpture called "Partners".
Take the circle to the right, as you come up to the hub featuring the Sleeping Beauty Castle and enter into Tomorrowland's Finding Nemo's Submarine Voyage attraction first.
Check out Star Wars Launch Bay near Space Mountain.
Skip Autopia, if you don't have kids in tow.
Tour outer space on Space Mountain.
Blast your way through the galaxy on Buzz Lightyear Astro Blasters.
Maneuver between Disneyland and Downtown Disney on the Disneyland Monorail.
Enjoy the fountains and the large, wet ball.
Leave Tomorrowland and walk around the hub and enter into Fantasyland to check out some of rides that Disneyland calls "dark rides".
Ride Pinocchio's Daring Journey.
Preview the Snow White's Scary Adventures ride before showing it to your kids.
Visit with Alice and her friends at the Alice in Wonderland attraction.
Take a spin on Mr. Toad's Wild Ride.
Soar on the dark ride called Peter Pan's Flight.
Ride the Casey Jr Circus Train.
Sail your way into and through Storybook Land on the Storybook Land Canal Boats.
Spin on the Mad Tea Party tea-cup ride.
Slip into the queue for the King Arthur Carousel.
Ride the Dumbo ride.This one is a classic that everyone wants to ride once they even hear the name.
Cap off your fill for fantasy with the It's a Small World ride.
Ride the Matterhorn Bobsleds ride, a roller coaster that is now available to be boarded from this area of the park(in the past, it's been boarded from Tomorrowland).
Walk through Sleeping Beauty Castle.
Walk into several of the whimsical houses of Mickey, Minnie, Dumbo, Goofy, Donald, and all his friends.
Spin on Roger Rabbit's Car Toon Spin.
Save your breath on Gadget's Go Coaster, unless you are in the need for a relatively calm roller coaster.
Take the easy cruise on the Mark Twain Riverboat or the Sailing Ship Columbia.
Ride Big Thunder Mountain Railroad.
Decide where to go next.
Sail the seas on the Pirates of the Caribbean ride.
Catch a ghost or two in the Haunted Mansion.Walk towards Critter Country.
Splash down the several-story drop on Splash Mountain.
Meet up with Winnie the Pooh while going to one of his parties at the Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh ride.
Take in a few showings of the Enchanted Tiki Room.
Look out for the Indiana Jones Adventure.
Ride the Jungle Cruise last.
Watch Mickey's Soundsational Parade.
Look for either the Paint the Night Electrical Parade to take place almost every night whenever no holiday parade is being shown.
Watch out for the Main Street Electrical Parade which airs on the nights that Paint the Night doesn't.
Look out for the nightly fireworks.