
Find a suitable tree.
Pick a desirable branch or group of branches.
Inspect your surroundings carefully.
Split your tree fishing rope approximately in half in length into two sections: the falling, or weight section, and the throwing line.
Estimate how much margin of error you have.
To assemble the weight line half, put one end of the rope in your least favored hand, for most this will be their left hand, and bend your elbow.
Grasping the top portion of the rope with your least favored (usually left) hand, use your other (right) hand to gather the bottom of the loops you have been making with that (right) hand and pull the rope taught.
Holding the two ends of this large coil apart turn one end a 1/2 turn creating a figure 8, then bring the two halves together so they make one smaller coil, about half the size of the first one.
At this point, you should have about half of your weight line left, or less.
Once you have used all but the last foot, draw that last foot through either end of the opening in the coil that was created by winding up the middle of the coil, it will resemble the loop created when you tie your shoe but be made of the many laces of the coil and should be large.
As the coil hangs there, notice that if you were to pull the free end of the rope tighter the weight would climb towards your hand, and if you slackened the rope it would drop towards the ground.
With the coil hanging at its best height coil the rest of the throwing rope in loops about the same size as the loop holding the throwing rope.
You have hopefully selected a dead, dry looking branch that is say, 12 feet (3.7 m) off the ground.
Face the tree at a 30 angle with your left foot forward.
Grab the coil and the throwing line you intend to toss with your throwing hand.

,
Hold the remaining rope with your other hand.

,
Swing the coil and weight back and forth to get the heft of it, try to bend your knees a little as you do.

,
To make it without the darn rope falling back on your head you probably need to be far enough back that the tree branch is at in the range of a 30-45 degree angle.
Swing back and forth until you are ready to let loose, and aim for a spot 10 to 15 feet (3.0 to 4.6 m) above the branch you want.
If all goes well, the rope will go over the branch and stop, untangle and fall to the ground.
Gather both ends of the rope and walk backwards slowly away from the tree, pulling gently as you do, testing to see if you do have a dead branch.
Try not to put to much tension on the rope as you pull the branch down.
If you find you are working too hard, the branch may still be alive, so move on.
If you take down more than you need, move the pile away from the campsite or trail you used, leaning it against a fallen trunk if possible, it will make a fine home for a young forest dweller.

,
Practice fire safety and leave your campsite cleaner than when you got there.