
Check with your local Extension Office before planting ivy outdoors.
Do not grow ivy outdoors if you live on the west coast or in the eastern United States.
Plant non-invasive alternatives to ivy.
Plant English ivy in an outdoor area with full or partial shade that gets two to four hours of direct sunlight.
Place ivy in an indoor area with bright indirect sunlight.
If possible, use loamy soil high in organic matter.
Plant ivy plants 1 and a half to 2 feet apart in the garden.
Water outdoor English ivy, Boston ivy and Swedish ivy twice a week during the spring, summer, and fall for the first year after planting.
Set a 1-inch container next to the ivy to deliver the right amount of water.
After the first year of growth, give the ivy 1 inch of water per week.
Spread a 2- to 3-inch depth of organic mulch around the ivy.
Water indoor ivies when the top 1/2 inch of the potting soil becomes dry.
Fertilize outdoor ivies with granular fertilizer in the spring when they begin to grow.
Give indoor ivies water-soluble fertilizer once every four weeks during the spring, summer and fall.
Always water indoor ivies before giving them fertilizer solution.
Repot indoor ivies when the container is filled with roots.
Place the plant in peat-based potting mix that contains sand and perlite for improved drainage.
Use sharp hedge shears or pruners to prune ivy.
Prune outdoor ivy plants in the spring and once or twice throughout the growing season.
Trim back any excessively long stems on indoor ivy.
Water the ivy with a soaker hose or watering can below to the leaves to prevent diseases.
Treat disease with an environmentally-friendly solution.
Spray the ivy with the solution until the tops and bottoms of the leaves and stems are dripping.
Rake up and dispose of any fallen leaves and debris around the ivy stems.
Prune off any cankerous stem and put them in the garbage.
Check the plant’s roots for root rot.
Spray ivies with a garden hose to crush aphids, leaf hoppers, mealybugs, scale insects, and spider mites.
Pick off any beetles, caterpillars, snails or slugs on the ivy.
Place shallow cans filled with beer around the ivy to attract snails and slugs.