
Identify the clergyman's hierarchical status or post.
Address a Deacon:
During a formal introduction, a Permanent Deacon should be introduced as “Deacon (First and Last Name).” He should be directly addressed as “Deacon (Last Name)” – or, on paper, as “Reverend Mr. (First and Last Name).” If it is a seminarian who is a Transitional Deacon, then he should be introduced as "Deacon(First and Last Name).",
Address a Brother:
During a formal introduction, a Brother should be introduced as “Brother (First Name) of (name of community).” He should be directly addressed as “Brother (First Name)” – or, on paper, as “Reverend Brother (First Name), (initials of his community)”

,
Address a Sister:
During a formal introduction, a Sister should be introduced as “Sister (First Name) of (name of community).” She should be directly addressed as “Sister (First and Last Name)” or “Sister” – or, on paper, as “Reverend Sister (First and Last Name), (initials of her community).”

,
Address a religious Priest:
During a formal introduction, a religious Priest should be introduced as “The Reverend Father (First and Last Name) of (name of community).” He should be directly addressed as “Father (Last Name)” or simply “Father,” – or, on paper, as “The Reverend Father (First Name Middle Initial Last Name), (initials of his community).”

,
Address a mother superior.
Address a diocesan(or secular) Priest:
During a formal introduction, a diocesan Priest should be introduced as “The Reverend Father (First and Last Name).” He should be directly addressed as “Father (First and/or Last Name)” or simply “Father,” – or, on paper, as “The Reverend Father (First Name and Last Name).” Note that you should stand when he enters a room (until he invites you to sit) and again when he leaves it.

,
Address a Vicar, Provincial, Canon, Dean, or Rector:
During a formal introduction, he should be introduced as “The Very Reverend Father/Vicar (First and Last Name).” He should be directly addressed as “Reverend (Last Name)” or “Father (Last Name),” – or, on paper, as “The Very Reverend Father (Vicar/Provincial/Canon, etc.),
Address a Monsignor.
Address a Bishop.
Address an Archbishop.
Address a Patriarch.
Address a Cardinal.
Address the Pope.