
Go to the App Store and search for The List App.Download The List App.
Open up the app.

,
Tap “Register”.

,
Select a username and password.
Add your email and name.
Wait for the option to receive Notifications from The List App to pop up.
Find contacts if desired.
Select Recommended Users you would like to follow.
Explore The List App!,
Use the icon on the top left to invite new users to The List App and find people to follow.
Use the lines and “+” icon on the top right to quickly and easily create lists.

,
Access the stream of lists from people you follow by selecting the Home icon on the bottom left.

,
Go to the Discover screen by tapping the Magnifying glass icon (second to the bottom left).
Tap the Speech bubble with lines icon (third from the left) to list notifications.
Enter your personal profile screen by tapping the person icon (far right).
Select the icon with the lines and “+” on the top right of the gray bar to start your list.
Choose your list type.
Add the title of your list.
Add an introduction (optional).
Start your list.
Consider adding a photo or additional text.
Click-drag items to easily reorder your list at any point.
If you’re finished with your list (complete or not), select next (at the top right in the gray).
Revisit drafts later if you want to.
Delete any complete list item if you need to.
Edit or delete your lists when you want to.
Go to the Discover screen by tapping on the magnifying glass icon at the bottom.
Follow more people and simply check your stream.
Save lists you like.
Share lists outside of The List App.
Find some big names to follow.
Follow more people.
Show your love by liking lists.
Relist a list to share the list with all your followers.
Reuse an inspiring list title.
Make a Suggestion on Open Lists.
Comment on a list.
Write Lists.
Request a list that you would like to read from someone.
Invite people to join The List App.
View the Activity portion of the Featured screen and possibly participate.
Decide if you want to change your settings from the default.
Tap the person icon on the bottom right corner (fourth from the left) to go to your Profile.

,
Access your Settings by tapping the gear icon on the top right of your profile screen, under the gray bar.
Change your profile picture by tapping the circle with the camera icon in the center (or the existing image).
Adjust your settings as you'd like.
Scroll down for additional options to: review policies and guidelines, reach out to the administrator, and read the FAQs.

,
Log out of the app with the button at the bottom of the Settings section.

,
Block, mute, or report users if you need to.