
Install any available updates.
Open the Store app from the Start screen.
Select the "Windows 8.1 Update".
Click "Install" to download and install the update.
Open the Start screen.
Type "help+tips".
Work through each of the tutorials.
Follow the link sot learn more.
Open the Desktop mode.
Right-click on the taskbar and select "Properties".
Check the "When I sign in or close all apps on a screen, go to the desktop instead of Start" box.
Log into your account to see the changes.
Click the Start button in Desktop mode to open the Start screen.
Right-click on the Start button to open a quick-access menu.
Shut down or log out from the right-click menu.
Open the Start screen.
Right-click on the app you want to pin.
Select "Pin to taskbar".
Right-click on pinned apps and select "Unpin this program from the taskbar" to remove it.
Use the Power button in the upper-right corner to access the power options.
Click the "Search" button to open the Search tool.
Resize the tiles on your Start screen.
Uninstall multiple apps at once.
Set your Start screen's background to match your Desktop.
Find your newly-installed apps.
Drag an app to the side of the screen to "Snap" it.
Drag another app to the other side of the screen to split the screen.
Drag the slider for each app so that there is space in the middle.
Drag another open app to the space between the two snapped apps.
Adjust the viewable area by using the sliders.
Enable Bing web searches for your Windows Search function.
Search for something using the Windows search.
Browse the search results.
Open the Charms bar and click "Settings".
Select "Change PC settings" at the bottom of the Settings menu.

,
Select one of the categories.
Understand how OneDrive is integrated with Windows 8.
Adjust your OneDrive sync settings.
Use the OneDrive app to manage your OneDrive files.
Open the File Explorer in Desktop mode.
Click the "View" tab at the top of the window.

,
Click the "Navigation pane" button and select "Show libraries".
Add folders to your libraries to easily access different types of files.