
Purchase your "LEGOLAND Florida" tickets online (or over the phone) before visiting the park, particularly if you are visiting from outside the US.
Preview the attractions in the park before your visit.
Drive and park to the parking lot for Legoland.
Look at the setup of the park as you enter through the turnstiles.
Enter into the park through the section known as The Beginning.
Ride the slow-moving ride called Island in the Sky to get a good idea what the park and the nearby landscape looks like.
Continue on into the next section in an almost clockwise manner.
Ride the spinning disc circular forward and back ride called Mia's Riding Adventure.Wait on taking in Stephanies Newsroom, as it's not been unveiled yet but is on the park map as being open.Watch the Friends to the Rescue’ Live Stage Show instead, if you'd like to watch Andrea's big premier at a park and see a little more about her life and her musical style.
Continue into this section in the clockwise pattern as you recognize that this section is the one section that makes LEGOLAND parks so famous to anyone and everyone who visits.
Inspire yourself for science and look at some of the LEGO figures made to look like the Kennedy Space Center.

,
Look at the Daytona International Speedway section for racing-inspired Lego creations to this famous nearby track.

,
Visit the LEGO stylings of Las Vegas' famous landmark Strip in the Las Vegas section of Miniland.

,
View the Washington DC section of Miniland in the park.
Look at the New York section for quite a few minutes.
Look at all the Star Wars inspired figurines sections in the Star Wars section of Miniland.
Get a view of the Californian coastline in the "California" section of Miniland.

,
Walk through the LEGO figurines collection of pirate-inspired motif in the Pirate Shores section of LEGOLAND.
Look at the Florida section of Miniland.Have your tots play in the DUPLO Tot Spot area of the Lego Technic area of the park.
Ride Project X, a full-blown roller coaster.
Ride the "AQUAZONE Wave Racer".
Ride the Technicycle attraction.
Walk through Pirates Cove.
Get used to exhilaration of freefall in "Kid Power Towers".Learn a little about the Hero Factory line of products that LEGO makes and sells in the LEGO Hero Factory building.
Get your family together and play in the WB (Warner Brothers) Games Zone.
Try to build and program a LEGO Mindstorm robot in the LEGO MINDSTORMS attraction.
Build a LEGO car and test it out in the "Build and Test" exhibit.
Learn to drive a boat in the Boating School ride around a watery non-tracked area.
Get healthy with the NFPA Rescue Academy as you help pump levers to help put out fake fires and help stop bad guys with water guns that can shoot far distances.

,
Obtain a LEGOLAND Driver's License after you've driven in an official real electric LEGOLAND car at Ford Driving School.Have your tot's play in the DUPLO Tot Spot area of the Lego City area of the park.
Get your thrill on when you ride the Flying School roller coaster.
Watch your kids laugh on Safari Trek.
Ride on the Coastersaurus roller coaster.
Ride Beetle Bounce with your kids.
Explorer a Lego-themed medieval Egyptian castle in the Lost Kingdom Adventure ride.
Let your kids join in on "Pharaohs Revenge".
Let your kids draw out some energy on "The Forestmen's Hideout", but keep an eye on them, as some kids will loose sight of their security and there is a slight possibility of injury on unstable bridges and stuff that kids understand the most about.

,
Let your younger riders take part in their own medieval joust on Royal Joust.
Ride the ups and downs on hills on the Merlin's Challenge ride.

,
Ride The Dragon.
Let your smaller children be creative and draw out excess energy in the DUPLO Tot Spot.
Have your kids play in the fun park areas of "DUPLO Splash &Play".
Make your youngest children believe they are mowing some corn fields on the "DUPLO Tractor" (These corn fields will be next to the tractor, and the tractor will be moving on open land, but it will appear to some that they are doing something rather helpful with their parents.),
Get your children to ride on the "DUPLO Train".
Let your kids frolic (while keeping an eye on them) in the "DUPLO Farm".Let your toddler's play in the Toddler Play Room in DUPLO Valley.
Continue through to the last land in the park called "Fun Town".
Look into the Lego Factory here.
Try the Carousel.
Learn from the stageshow called "Wells Fargo Fun Town 4D Theater.
Visit the "World of Chima" land here next to and further away than the Duplo Valley area from The Beginning.
Play in the water park area at the very back of the park.
Take a step back in time and lull around in the Cypress Gardens area of the park.