
Start with Bengali desert because it is easy to make.
Assemble the ingredients.
Assemble the items needed as well.
Heat the milk in the pan until just before it boils.Add lemon juice (or citrus substitute) one tablespoon at a time.
Stir the milk constantly while adding the lemon juice.
Place the cheesecloth in a strainer.
Use the cheesecloth to squeeze out any excess moisture.
Soak the almond and pistachio slivers with the saffron in warm milk.Combine the sugar, milk powder and paneer and mix well.Place on a medium-low flame, folding the doughy mixture continuously for 4-5 minutes in the pan.
When the mixture becomes slightly more solid in texture, splash the rose water on it and remove the pan from the heat.Allow the mixture to cool.
Add sugar and cardamom powder and mix until smooth dough is formed.Lightly grease the molds with ghee (clarified butter).Put a little topping mixture (soaked almonds, pistachios and saffron strands) in each mold.Press some of the prepared paneer mixture on top of the topping in each and shape into the mold.
Assemble the ingredients:

1 chicken or its equivalent
Water
1 onion, finely chopped
salt, according to taste
Fresh coriander (about half a bunch)
1 tablespoon of ground cinnamon
a teaspoon of turmeric powder
2 tablespoons of tomato puree
2 tablespoons of cumin powder
1 teaspoon crushed ginger
A pinch of crushed garlic.

,
Use 1 kilogram of chicken with or without bones.
Add into a pot containing 1 glass of water.
Add the onion into this mixture.When chicken appears to be half cooked, add fresh coriander.Add the cinnamon, turmeric powder, tomato puree, cumin powder, crushed ginger and garlic.
Turn down the heat slightly, as the above spices will need to blend into the chicken mixture, while it cooks into the chickens own natural oils.Once the mixture obtains a smooth consistency, mix thoroughly to get an even consistent blend.Allow to simmer until chicken is completely cooked.Add the required amount of water while cooking, if one desires to add gravy to this dish.Garnish with one diced tomato(fresh), five minutes before switching off the cooker.
Check the salt content.
Serve.
Obtain the following ingredients:

1 kilo of chicken on the bone cut into 8-10 parts
1 tablespoon of ginger garlic paste
1 teaspoon of coriander powder
1 cup of card or milk with one lemon juice
1 tablespoon garlic paste
1 teaspoon biryani masala (2 cardamom,1 inch cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon fenugreek, 3 cloves - take all these, fry them without oil, make them into a powder)
A pinch of salt.

,
Mix all of the above ingredients together.
Prepare the herbs, spices and condiments.
Assemble the fried onion ingredients.
Deep fry the onions.
Heat oil and fry the sliced onions in batches.
Cook the chicken.
Parboil the rice.
Keep all these ready.
Take a heavy bottom pan with a lid (non stick is best).
Done.
Leave for one hour.Fry the cloves, cardamom, cinnamon and onion in the pressure cooker pot and cook until it is fried to a golden colour.
Add the ginger and garlic.
Add the amount of uncooked rice you want to use along with the required amount of water (usually twice the amount of rice) - stir this mixture using a long spatula to mix everything together, then close the lid of the cooker and wait for the whistle.Add the amount of uncooked rice you want to use along with the required amount of water (usually twice the amount of rice) - stir this mixture using a long spatula to mix everything together, then close the lid of the cooker and wait for the whistle.
Open and serve.
Assembler the needed ingredients.Take the body of the fish, except for the head and tail.
Wash the fish.Heat the ghee in a pan and put a bay leaf, cardamom, wild cinnamon.Put the marinated fish into the pan.Pour ¼ cup of water and cover it.
Cook it in low flame.
Assemble the ingredients.Cut the eggplant lengthwise.Rub in salt, turmeric and sugar.
Keep aside for 30 minutes to one hour.Heat the mustard oil in a frying pan.Lay the eggplants down in the oil.Turn the sides to cook evenly on both the sides.Serve hot.Cut the brinjal/eggplant into around 1/2" slices and drop it in a bowl of water for around 15 minutes.Drain the water and wipe all the slices dry.Mix all of the masala ingredients, along with rava, in a mixing bowl.Apply this mixture on the both sides of all the brinjal slices.Heat little oil in frying pan.
Place the brinjal slices in the pan.Turn the slices around & fry till they turn brown on both sides.
Garnish with coriander leaves on cooked slices and relish.