
Turn off the power feeding the panel you are going to be working in.
This wikiHow is about wiring a simple electrical circuit.
Look at the following requirements that must be considered before proceeding with this project.
Measure the distance from the electrical panel box to the location your new outlet will be installed, following the path you have selected, and trying to determine the actual distance the wire must run.
Feed the wires through the conduit from the receptacle box.
Cut the wire to length so that 20cm (8") sticks out of the outlet box, and about 80cm (30") sticks out at the electrical panel.

,
Cut about 15cm (6") of the (usually yellow or gray) outer jacket away from the wire, being careful to not damage the inner black or white jackets.
Strip about 1.5 cm (5/8") of the insulation away from the end of both the black and white wires.
Use the needle nose pliers to form a small hook at the exposed copper ends of all the wires to attach to the terminals on your receptacle if you are not going to feed additions devices through this outlet.
Carefully strip both ends of the pigtails as outlined above.
Fold the group towards the back of the box, with the pigtail sticking out to the front of the box.
Repeat this procedure for the remaining wires.
Look at the outlet.
Wrap the hook you made on the wires around the screw terminals of the outlet.
Look on one end of the outlet for a green screw.
That completes wiring of the outlet end of the circuit.

,
Gently push all the wires back into the electrical box, screw the outlet into place, and put the cover on it.

,
Go to the electric panel.
Put the rubber mat down and stand on it while you do your work, and bend the wires out away from the panel while preparing them, so that your hands are not working close to potentially live circuits.

,
Locate the neutral / grounding bus bar.
Cut the ground wire to length so that it comfortably reaches the grounding post after following a path out of the way of other wires, typically following right-angles across the bottom of the panel and up to the grounding post.
Find an unused terminal on this grounding bar, unscrew it part way, insert the ground wire, and then tighten the screw back down onto the exposed copper until the wire is secure.
Locate the neutral bar if there is one.
Cut the white neutral wire to length, then strip 1.5cm (5/8") of the jacket off and bind it to the neutral binding post the same way as you did for the ground wire.
Locate the open slot in the electrical panel that you want to install this circuit into.
Being careful to not touch anything conductive, determine the length of wire needed to reach this slot easily, also following a path around the outside of the panel.
Check or select a circuit breaker suitable for the task and panel.
Locate the single binding screw on the new circuit breaker.
Strip 1.5cm (5/8") of the end of the black wire, insert it into the breaker, and bind it securely to the breaker.

,
Make sure that your new breaker is switched off.

,
Standing on the rubber mat, place one hand at your side or behind your back...
Using your remaining hand, slide the slot in the breaker over the tab in the electrical panel.

,
Then firmly push the other end of the breaker in over the electrical contact until it is seated in line with the other breakers.

,
Locate the place on the panel cover where this new breaker needs to be exposed.
Restore power to the panel.
Turn the new circuit on.
Plug a lamp into your new circuit to test it.