
Recognize the signs and symptoms of a potential pulmonary embolism.If you notice these signs and symptoms, it is important to go to the Emergency Room immediately.
Seek treatment if you have signs of an already-present DVT (deep venous thrombosis).A DVT (deep vein thrombosis), that normally occurs in one of your legs, is often the precursor to developing a PE (pulmonary embolism).
Consider your risk factors.
Get blood tests.If you are presenting with signs and symptoms that may be indicative of a pulmonary embolism, one of the first things the doctor will do when you arrive in the Emergency Room is order a series of blood tests.
Have an electrocardiogram, or ongoing cardiac monitoring.
Receive a CT angio scan.A CT angio scan is one of the most effective ways to identify and diagnose a pulmonary embolism.
Opt for a V/Q (ventilation-perfusion) scan.Another diagnostic test that can be used to identify a pulmonary embolism is the V/Q - ventilation-perfusion - scan.
Ask your doctor for a pulmonary angiography.If a CT angio scan and/or V/Q scan are insufficient to diagnose (or rule out) a pulmonary embolism, your doctor may recommend a more invasive diagnostic test called pulmonary angiography.
Take an anticoagulant (blood thinning) medication.The mainstay of treatment for a pulmonary embolism are anticoagulant (commonly known as "blood thinning") medications.
Opt for thrombolytic therapy.If the clot (pulmonary embolism) is large enough to cause severe symptoms (such as extreme shortness of breath, chest pain, or even symptoms of shock), your doctor will likely recommend "thrombolytic therapy.",
Have a clot filter inserted to prevent future emboli (clots).If you have "contraindications" (reasons against) being on blood thinning medications, your doctor may advise a clot filter to prevent the formation of future clots.
Ask about catheter-directed thrombolysis.
Receive a surgical embolectomy.If the clot is particularly large and severe, a surgical embolectomy may be recommended as a "last resort treatment.",
Determine the underlying cause.After diagnosing you with a PE, your doctor will want to determine what caused it in the first place, to avoid the future formation of blood clots.