
Learn when to begin.
Assess your child's health.
Learn about child CPR.
Dress your child in a special swim diaper.
Avoid air-filled flotation devices.
Secure all gates, locks, and ladders to your pool.
Check the water temperature.
Enter the water slowly while holding your child.
Make the experience fun.
Introduce your child to the motion of swimming.
Use your hands to guide his feet in a kicking motion.
Help your child to learn to float.
Play a game of “superhero” to show him he can float in the water.
Describe and demonstrate floating.
Teach the principle of floating with balls and balloons.
Practice the back-float on dry ground.
Do a tandem floating trial run.
Take your child under the arms with both of your hands while in the water.
Turn your child gently onto his back as you exhale.
Respond appropriately to panic.
Dip your child's head in the water carefully.
Place your dominant hand on the child's back and your other hand on his chest.
Remain calm.
Supervise your child at all times.
Introduce your child to the water if new to the experience.
Teach your child the rules of the pool.
Be clear that your child has to ask your permission before going in the pool.
Explain swimming activities clearly before practice.
Blow bubbles in the water.
Play a bubble blowing game.
Teach your child to swim by kicking.
Teach your child to swim with his arms.
Have him start with both hands under the water and on his hips.
Have him keep his arm straight above his head.
Have him pull his hand back to his hip after his arm reenters the water.
Practice swimming in this way by playing "Catch the Fishies.” Pretend that with the circular motion of his arm he is catching a fish with the down stroke and pulling it toward a basket on his hip.
Guide your child to the steps or ladder.
Encourage your child to use the wall.
Take your child underwater.
Count to three and smoothly submerge him in the water.
Allow your child to start swimming independently with a life vest.
Continue supervising your child whenever he is in the pool.
Confirm that your child is proficient with all basic skills.
Teach your child the Dog Paddle.
Tell your child to enter the water belly first and cup his hands.
Tell him to kick his feet a little below the surface of the water.
Have your child keep his head above water with his chin on the surface while paddling and kicking.
Teach him to blow air out through his nose underwater.
Encourage him to practice regulating his underwater nose-exhale.
Practice moving around underwater with the nose-exhale technique.
Teach your child to breathe bilaterally between strokes while swimming freestyle.
Have your child sit on the steps or stand in the shallows.
Combine the arms-only swimming stroke described for younger children with short, fast kicks below the surface of the water.
Cue breathing and help your child to find a swimming rhythm.
Hold him in the water with his stomach down, feet off the bottom of the pool, and your arms supporting him.
Supervise him trying this motion independently.
Let your child swim to the other side of the pool.
Have him stand or float at one end of the pool and push off the side with his legs.
Teach your child to roll over from his back.
Have your child start by floating on his back.
Teach your child to tread water.
Teach him to get back to the ladder if he falls in.
Make sure your child always jumps towards the center of the pool.
Teach your child more advanced strokes.