
Make the arena.
Add the cornucopia, add chests containing resources and weapons.
Add the landscape.
Make a training center.
Have dispenser circuits that creates hazards such as zombies and angry wolves.
Add traps.
Set up abandoned huts or shacks in the arena that contained crafting tables and brewing stands.
Take on the swords.
Give bows and arrows, at least 64 arrows per bow.

,
Retexture splash potions.
Add drinks for the tributes.
Add food:


Cooked steak for canned meat
Cooked fish for canned fish
Raw salmon for dried fish
Rabbit stew and mushroom stew for meat soup
Cooked pork for sausage (better if you retexture it!),
Add extra supplies:


Milk for healing cream (as it stops poison effects)
Potion of invisibility for camouflage paint
Potion of water breathing for oxygen tank
Potion of night vision for eye cream
Texture leather armour into the district clothes and camouflage clothes.
If you want, you can add small amounts of gold or chainmail armour textured like a t-shirt.
Reap tributes.
Have a lobby for each district.
Have a Capital area.
Have a starting lobby, which is when players first spawn.
When the tributes are selected, dress them in costumes made from armour (or other wearable items that are re-textured).
Make parkour areas.
Have your friends or people who know the game well become gamemakers and explain the game.
Make suites for the tributes, containing beds and showers and chests.
Have a stylist for each tribute helping them sort clothing and "beautify" them.

,
Give beautiful dishes and foods.
Have tributes get rated by gamemakers in private rooms.
Have "Caesar" interview the tributes.
Have a teleport for each player to their starting point.
Have gamemakers in creative mode video the games from their computer, send it to the platform.
When the feast is to begin, refill the chests with supplies and announce in the chat box.
When the game is near the end (3-4 tributes still alive), spawn killer bunnies and other non-flying monsters in from the edges (mutations), the tributes then would start running for survival up the cornucopia, and this is a wordless deathmatch.

,
When the victor is decided, kill the mutations with a command, and announce the victory.