
Look for evenness.
Take barely-visible pores as a sign of normal skin.
Check for a radiant glow.
Wash with a gentle cleanser twice daily.
Use a toner twice daily after cleansing.
Apply a lightweight antioxidant serum.
Slather on a light moisturizer with SPF.
Follow up the serum with a night cream.
Rely on a consistent beauty routine.
Use skincare products designed for in-between normal skin.
Have any changes in the skin checked out.
Notice shiny skin.
See if your skin feels slick.
Take note of breakouts.
Look for large pores.
Cleanse your face often.
Follow up the cleanser with a toner.
Opt for a lightweight moisturizer intended for oily skin.
Exfoliate gently several times a week.
Add primer and powder makeup to your beauty routine.
Get a facial with an extraction once a month.
Minimize the appearance of pores with steam.
Use oil-free products.
Target blackheads with a clay mask.
Get rid of pimples with an acne-fighting serum.
Look for flaky areas.
Notice if your skin feels tight or itchy.
Take note a dull, red complexion.
Use lukewarm water when bathing, showering, or cleaning your face.
Choose a moisturizing body or face wash with natural oils.
Apply a rich, hydrating facial moisturizer after cleansing.
Address chalky skin with an emollient body cream.
Finish off with liquid or cream-based makeup.
Run a humidifier to address dryness.
Limit your use of harsh products.
Change out products that dry out your skin.
See a doctor for especially dry, itchy skin.
Look for an oily T-zone.
Notice if your skin is dry or normal elsewhere.
See if you have dandruff.
Wash your skin with a mild cleanser.
Use lightweight gels and liquids.
Apply masks to target oiliness and dryness once a week.
Moisturize with jojoba oil after showering.
Use products with retinol or alpha or beta hydroxy acid for large pores.
Apply acne spot treatments only where necessary.
Wash with a dandruff shampoo.
Notice any redness.
See if your skin is itchy or feels like it’s burning.
Keep track of dryness.
Do a patch test.
Switch to a non-drying cleanser.
Use an antioxidant serum daily.
Apply sunscreen every day.
Read product labels carefully to avoid irritation.
Use fragrance-free products.
Avoid any known triggers.