
Sail to B-5, Islet of Steel.Blow up the ship guarding the entrance using your cannon.
Go inside and go up to the wind symbol.
Sail to C-3, Tingle Island.
Sail to B-4, Greatfish Isle.
Play hide and seek with the Killer Bees.
Give Mrs. Marie 20 Joy Pendants.
Sail to E-5, Private Oasis.Use the Grappling Hook on the switch on the ceiling to put out the fire in the fireplace, then go into the hole in the fireplace.
Go through the maze until you find a room with a wind symbol.
(Note: these next two steps are for the GameCube version.
Sail to D-1, Gale Island.
Sail to G-5, Bird's Peak Rock.
Use the seagull to hit the crystal switches.
Go inside and go up to the wind symbol.Go to Tingle Island and pay Tingle to translate the Triforce Chart.
Sail to C-5, Stone Watcher Island.
Sail to A-6, Diamond Steppe Island.
Use the cauldrons, which has to be done in a certain order, to go through the cave until you reach a treasure chest.
Wait until nighttime, and note the phase of the moon.
Go to the location corresponding to the phase of the moon.Defeat the enemies inside, and open the chest that appears to get Triforce Chart #4 (GameCube)/Triforce Shard #4 (Wii U).
(Note: these next two steps are for the GameCube version.
Go to B-7, Outset Island.
Sail to A-5, Needle Point Isle.Go to Tingle Island and pay Tingle to translate the Triforce Chart.
Sail to G-6, Cliff Plateau Isles.
Go to Outset Island and walk up the mountain path.
Drop down the hole in between two torches.
(Note: these next two steps are for the GameCube version.
Sail to D-5, Southern Triangle Island.
Sail to Stone Watcher Island.
Defeat the enemies in the four rooms, then defeat the Darknuts in the central room to unlock the door with the Triforce Symbol above it.
(Note: these next two steps are for the GameCube version.
Sail to F-1, Seven-Star Isles.
Sail to G-1, Overlook Island.
Defeat the enemies in the four rooms  to unlock the door with the Triforce Symbol above it.
(Note: these next two steps are for the GameCube version.
Sail to D-7, Two-Eye Reef.