
Understand that "Personal Security" is a professional service, so keep your expectations realistic.
As, unlike the United Kingdom, there are no national civilian training standards for this profession in the US or Canada, there are several titles a Practitioner may use: Executive Protection, Protective Services, Personal Protection or Personal Security.

,
Like the Secret Service, the best individuals are proactive, clean cut, intelligent, articulate, educated professionals that are trained to PREVENT a threat to your welfare.
Look on the Internet for your state’s private security company regulations.
Ensure your candidates are graduates of a Government Protective Services course from the;


United States Secret Service (Special Agent versus Uniformed Division))
US State Department's Diplomatic Security Service

Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC)
US Army Military Police School's Protective Services Training Course

US Army Criminal Investigation Division (CID)
US Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS)
US Air Force Office of Special Investigations (OSI)
or graduates from one of the few, internationally recognized and respected, civilian executive protection schools in the US like;

Executive Security International(ESI)in Colorado

Executive Protection Institute in Virginia

R.L.
Just because someone has been in the military, law enforcement or has worked overseas on a Protective Services Detail (PSD) DOES NOT mean they have the right mind-set, training or skill-sets to perform Personal Security within the United States.
Get a photocopy of the applicant’s driver’s license, Social Security card and copies of any professional certificates.

,
Conduct a background check on the web and pay for a simple criminal history check.

,
Have every candidate sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement (available for free on the Internet) before discussing your needs or personal information.

,
Look for specific experience, and ask for examples of how the candidate has demonstrated proficiency in skills including, but not limited to:


Choreography (knowing how to stand, walk and get in and out of a car with a Protectee)
Conducting advance work to prepare for trips and events ahead of time
Effective countermeasures to deal with an attack or security threat if one materializes
Knowledge of physical security and access control systems
Formal training in specialized driving skills, and
Extensive Firearms and Defensive Tactics or martial arts training

,
Ask the candidate about "big name" people s/he has protected.
Specialized driving skills are generally considered a sub-specialty within Personal Security and are commonly known as Evasive and/or Counter-ambush Driving, that few Personal Security practitioners have formal, in-depth training in.