
Make sure that you've definitely been bitten by the "acting bug": you know that's what you want to do with your life regardless of criticisms you may or may not receive from family and peers.
Know your source(s) of income.
Research actor training programs with the intention of enrolling in one, whether it'd be a couple of classes here or there or a 2-3 year conservatory program.
To help get you started some of the best conservatories are Circle in the Square, Stella Adler, The New York Conservatory for Dramatic Arts, and William Esper to name a few.

,
It's also a good idea, if you can, to try to have some idea of what you expect out of an acting school or teacher.
Research good monologues that are right for you.
It is helpful to have a binder filled with at least ten different monologues from different plays, with different types of characters.
If you are doing musical theatre you should have a binder filled with songs.

,
In NYC places like Drama Book Shop or Samuel French (also in LA) are great places to go look for monologues as their staffs are largely comprised of theatre buffs and actors themselves, who often are more than glad to lend you a helping hand.

,
Make friends with peers that you meet at classes and auditions.
Research good photographers in the area so that you can get good headshots.
Schedule meetings to have a short one on one chat with them just to get a sense of what their persona is like.
Think about whether studio light or natural light speaks to you more and express that to your photographer.
Once you feel comfortable in your own skin, start auditioning for projects!,
Understand the general audition process.
Work towards getting an agent/representation.
Another increasingly popular method of getting your foot in the door is going to specialized studios that provide agent/casting director workshops/seminars.
One way of looking at these kind of institutions is, if a person is not getting auditions, not being sent out by her agent or maybe doesn't even have an agent and doesn't have many industry contacts or know how to get them, then why not, yes pay a little money and be sure to be able to see the people you want to meet?

