
Select a source for your crotch cut.
Cut the tree down with a chainsaw.
Cut a section of trunk where a crotch occurs, or a fork in two large branches, above and below the fork.
Stand the section of wood upright, and using a chainsaw again, rip, or split it from top to bottom to create a flat slab.
Round the slab by making tangent cuts around the circumference of your planned circular bowl shape.
Allow the wood blank or turning stock to dry.
Mount your turning stock on the faceplate adapter.
Mount the faceplate on the lathe headstock, being sure to tighten it securely, for the reason discussed in the previous step.
Swing the lathe's tool rest near the edge of your stock.
Free spin the workpiece one more time, again, making sure all fittings and connections between the lathe headstock and the face plate are turning true and secure, and all tool rest locking devices are tight.

,
Turn on your lathe, beginning at its lowest speed setting, and begin truing the stock.
Turn the stock to a true cylinder, using a speed of between 450-700 RPMs on the headstock.
After turning a true cylinder, or at least turning the piece round, since truing isn't necessary for a bowl which will eventually be tapered anyway, move your tool rest to the face of your stock.
Using a curved scraping knife, and starting at the center, turn the face working outward, taking a sixteenth to an eighth of an inch per pass.
Realign the tool rest so that it is as close as you are comfortable with to the face of the workpiece, and begin to cut the concave, or inwardly curved surface of your bowl.
Cut the concave inner surface of the bowl to the rough shape you desire.
After making the rough concave cut to the approximate depth and shape you are looking for, stop the lathe and inspect the grain of the wood.
Use a parting knife to remove the center, or core-like middle of the bowl if you have cut around it.
Relocate the tool rest to the outside circumference of the stock.
Remember to take a moment to inspect the wood as you turn it, looking for rotten pockets, splintering grain, and other conditions that will affect your finished product.
Use a finishing, or surfacing knife to clean up the sides of your bowl once you have turned it down to your desired shape.
Stop the lathe and make a final inspection of the turned bowl.
Part the bowl from the base of your stock.
Finished.

