
Choose a good pistol.
So from the generalities above, a large SA (or DA/SA) pistol with a long barrel would be best.
While a public shooting range is a common place to practice, it is not necessarily the most optimal location to practice your long-range accuracy.
Start your practice out with some stretches.
Do some warm-up shots (maybe at 15 yards).
When you first start shooting at long-distance targets, it is best to start closer and move your way up.
Your stance should be what is most comfortable to you.
Lean your head slightly to the right to line up your right eye with the sights of the gun.
Slowly breathe, relax, and attempt to lineup the sights over the target.
You will find with practice that your breathing and ability to not get excited and remain calm are the primarily challenges when keeping your sights on your target.
The "sight picture" should, on traditional iron sights, resemble a shape like III, where the front sight is framed perfectly by the borders of the rear site.
A gun should be 'zeroed' (adjusted) to aim accurately when the sight picture is placed directly below the target.
Different ammunition shoots differently (and more or less accurately) for different guns.
Novice shooters often pride themselves on a bulls-eye when the rest of their shots lie all over the target.
Once you have the sights correctly aligned and have placed a perfect sight picture on your target, you want to slowly pull the trigger directly toward the back of the gun, with the trigger on or past the last joint on your index finger (pull straight, slowly, and consistently between shots).
When the shot fires see where the bullet landed (high, low, left, right, or any combination).
Practice at this range until you consistently are able to hit a chest-sized target (about a 20-inch diameter circle).
If your sights hit in the correct location (not high or low) at 40 or 50 yards (36.6 or 45.7 m) (this is best), you will find that at 60 or 70 yards (54.9 or 64.0 m) you will need to compensate for bullet drop by aiming higher; it may only be a couple inches, but you will need to get used to it.