
Get as much information about the surgery as possible.
Discuss your child's needs with the doctor.
Talk about surgery accommodations.
Schedule the surgery for a good date and time.
Talk to your child about what will happen.
Be emotionally available for your child.
Buy foods and medications that you may need for your child.
Gather books, movies, and other activities your child can do while relaxing.
Create a "hospital passport" for your child.
Prepare your child's bag for admittance, if necessary.
Discuss the surgery with the child's siblings.
Get support from friends or family members.
Make your child a meal they like the night before.
Help your child dress appropriately.
Allow your child to take a comfort object or stim toy.
Take materials for yourself, too.
Alert the nurses of any of your child's health problems.
Be aware that your child may temporarily regress.
Comfort your child during the waiting process.
Distract your child if an IV is administered.
Stay with your child as long as possible before the surgery.
Prepare for the wake-up time after the surgery.
Get written instructions for your child's post-operative care.
Take hospital admittance into account.
Encourage your child to rest when they arrive home.
Offer a form of AAC.
Give your child clear liquids.
Stay close to your child in case they need someone to watch them or need assistance.
Follow your doctor's instructions for post-operative care.
Administer medication according to the doctor's orders.
Encourage your child to not touch the surgical site.
Give your child low-energy activities to do.
Comfort the child as needed.
Help your child cope with and minimize the pain.
Pick up your child's homework, or get a friend or sibling of theirs to do it.
Involve your child's siblings in the recovery process, too.
Start serving easily digestible food as your child recovers.
Take note of signs of illness after the surgery.
Encourage your child to return to daily activities slowly and cautiously.
Be patient with your child.