
Wander through the forest a bit, until you hear (or read) a cry for help.
Walk down to the right hand corner of the forest where there's a stump.
Once you're tiny, stroll over to the left, and go through a log.
Let the Picoris babble at you for a minute, then walk to the right and up the first turn you see.
Talk to the Picori in here, he'll tell you what to do next.
Talk to Festari again, he'll say go talk to the elder, so do.
Talk to the Elder (his name is Gentari) , and listen to Ezlo babble on.
After the two are done rambling, go back to Festari, he'll let you on to the temple/dungeon/Deepwood Shrine.
In this room, kill the slugs and step on the buttons in any order.
Kill off the slugs in here, too.
Walk up the stairs in this room, and step on the button.
Stroll over to the other side of the room, dodging the mushroom-looking monsters.
Once here, push the pot onto the button, do not pick it up and throw it.
Push both statues on the buttons.
Go through the small tunnel across from the room, and push the block down.
Use the mushroom to go south.
Slugs will fall, so watch your step.
Three red monsters will be in here.
Take the path up the stairs.
Go down the stairs in the north wall.
Step on the switch to reveal a door, but don't go through it.
Stay away from the spiderwebs on the walls.
Hit it's nose with your sword until it turns grey and freezes.
Use the Gust Jar to get rid of the spiderwebs, revealing doors.
Go back and take the east door.
Go back and through the door on the south wall until you enter the barrel room.
Go back inside the barrel and roll until you see an exit covered with a cobweb.
Once through, you'll see a giant lilypad.
Move over towards the waterfall.
When the path splits, go right.
Push one of the pots onto the switch.
Go onto the lilypad and head down the path where there were formerly bars.
Get back on the lilypad and go towards the big room and unlock the door.
Pull the mushroom all the way down to reach the other side.
Remember, the Gust Jar can suck in mushrooms even at a distance.Get the big key (which unlocks the final boss's door) from the big chest and step on the switch, which unlocks a red warp tile.
Step on the red warp tile to reach the entrance, then take the blue warp tile to reach a piece of heart.
Use your best friend, the Gust Jar, to get rid of the cobwebs on both doors (on left and right).Use the Gust Jar to draw the first mushroom in, then go below the mushroom, stand a distance away before doing this to reach the Final Boss Door.
Avoid the jumps.
Use the Gust Jar at the base to make it smaller and smaller until it eventually wobbles and falls over.Repeat this process until it's beat.
Congratulations!