
Check your electrical appliances, cords and outlets.
Learn from the mistakes of others.
Have common sense.
Be careful with portable heaters.
Stay safe in the kitchen.
Make your fireplace safe.
Keep your kids safe from matches.
Use candles safely.
Be careful of holiday dangers.
Ensure you have an adequate smoke alarm system.
Have fire extinguishers around the house.
Understand the importance.
Decide which type is more suitable.
Install the alarm.
Install on the wall if necessary.
Locate the smoke alarm from dead space.
Maintain your smoke alarm so it will continue to work effectively.
Understand what they are used for.
Put out oil fires.
Throw the blanket out if it has been used.
Put the fire blanket in the best place.
Draw a floor pan of your house and identify two ways to exit for each room.
Choose a meeting place.
Check that the Windows and fly screens open freely and that children can open them.
Display the escape plan in a central area of your home.
Ensure you are able to escape from your home in the event of a fire.
Understand it is important to practice escaping.
Train your family basic evacuation procedure.
Alert others as you go.
Make sure that the windows in every room are easy to open and are not painted over or nailed shut.
If you live in an apartment building, make sure any safety bars on windows are removable in an emergency.
If your house is more than one story tall or if you live above the ground floor of an apartment building, an escape ladder is an important safety feature.
Like fire extinguishers, escape ladders should be operated by adults only.
Discuss and rehearse the escape routes you've planned for each room of your home.
Every so often, test your plan.
Be sure any babysitters in your home know all escape routes and plans in case of a fire.

,
Select which type of portable fire extinguisher.
Understand the six classes of fire.
Learn about the different types of fire extinguishers and what they do.
Understand the three different types of fire extinguishers.
Get your fire extinguisher replaced, serviced or refilled after use.
Know when and how to use a fire extinguisher.
Put the fire out with care.
Put out oil and fat fires.
Extinguish open flames.
Remove stove knobs.
Invest in flameless candles.
Beware of water bowls on wooden decks.
Pet-proof the home.
Keep your pets safe.
Secure young pets.
Practice escape routes with pets.
Consider using monitored smoke detection services.
Affix a pet alert window cling.