
Open the app store on your mobile device.
Search for "Messenger.",
Install the Messenger app from Facebook.
Log into Messenger.
View your Facebook conversations.
Start a new conversation.
Add friends to the message.
Write a message.
Tap the emoji button to insert emoji.
Tap the Like button to send a thumbs up.
Tap the ⓘ button (Android) or conversation name (iOS) to change the color, emoji, and other settings.
See how far the other people have read.
Tap the Camera button to take and send a picture or video.
Tap the Gallery button to send a picture from your device.
Tap the Smiley button to send stickers.
Tap the GIF button to find and send an animated GIF.
Tap the Microphone button to send an audio note.
Turn on Photo Magic to have Messenger detect your friends in pictures you take.
Open a conversation with the person you want to call.
Tap the Phone or Video Call button to initiate a call.
Talk for as long as you'd like.
Open a conversation.
Tap "..." and then tap "Location.",
Move the pin to the location you want to share.
Tap "Send" to send the location of your pin.
Open the Settings (iOS) or Profile (Android) screen.
Tap "Payments" in the settings menu.
Tap "Add New Debit Card.",
Enter your debit card information.
Open a conversation with the person you want to send money to or request money from.
Tap "..." and then tap "Payments.",
Enter the amount you want to send or receive.
Enter a reason (optional).
Send the request or payment.
Open a conversation with someone.
Tap "..." and then select "Transportation.",
Select the service you want to use.
Allow the service you select to access your Messenger account.
Select the type of car you want.
Set the location that you want to be picked up.
Set your desired destination.
Tap "Request" to order the ride.
Find your ride receipts in the conversation with the ride service.
Open a conversation with someone.
Tap the "..." button.
Scroll through the list of apps available.
Tap "Install" or "Open" to open the app's store page.
Install the app.
Tap the "..." button in your Messenger conversation again.
Tap your new add-on app.
Use the app.
Tap the "Send to Messenger" button.
Tap "Send" in Messenger to send what you created in the other app.
Find a chatbot you want to talk to.
Open the People section of the Messenger app.
Search for the chatbot you want to add.
Start chatting with the chatbot.
Open the Settings section of the app.
Tap "Notifications.",
Toggle previews on or off.
Mute notifications for a set amount of time.
Tap the "Notifications in Messenger" option to set in-app preferences.
Open the Settings app on your device to change other notification options.
Tap "Notifications" in the list of Settings options.
Tap "Messenger" in the list of applications.
Toggle notifications on or off using the "Allow Notifications" slider.
Toggle your other notification settings.
Open the Profile section of the app.
Tap "Notifications & Sounds.",
Toggle notification previews on or off.
Toggle vibration on or off.
Toggle the notification light on or off.
Toggle the notification sound on or off.
Tap "Notification Sound" to change the sound for Messenger notifications.
Toggle in-app sounds on or off.
Open the Settings app for your Android device to completely disable notifications.
Visit .messenger.com in your desktop browser.
Log in with your Facebook account.
Use the Messenger website like you would the app.