
Tell your doctor if you are experiencing ongoing diarrhea.Diarrhea is when you have three or more loose, watery stools daily.
Take note of abdominal pain and/or cramps.Another common symptom of ulcerative colitis is abdominal pain with or without cramps.
Look out for problems passing stool.Not all people with ulcerative colitis present with diarrhea.
Take note of your energy level.Ulcerative colitis typically presents with a higher level of fatigue than you would normally experience in your day-to-day life.
Watch for weight loss.If you have ulcerative colitis, the inflammation in the colon interferes with nutrient absorption.
Measure your temperature.Ulcerative colitis may also present with a fever in conjunction with prolonged diarrhea and abdominal pain.
Observe the course of your disease.Ulcerative colitis typically goes in waves, with periods when it is worse and periods when it gets better.
Look for signs and symptoms of severe bleeding.One of the potential complications of ongoing ulcerative colitis is an episode of severe bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you experience a sudden worsening of your abdominal pain.A number of the potential complications of ulcerative colitis present with sudden onset, severe abdominal pain.
Watch for inflammation of your skin, joints, eyes, and mouth.Another potential complication of ulcerative colitis is redness and inflammation of the skin anywhere on your body, sore or swollen joints, irritated eyes, or developing mouth sores.
Ask for blood tests.If you have symptoms suggestive of ulcerative colitis, one of the ways to investigate further is by ordering blood tests.
Get a stool sample.A stool sample can also aid in the diagnosis of ulcerative colitis.
Have a colonoscopy.While blood tests and a stool test both help in the diagnosis of ulcerative colitis, a colonoscopy is the best way to thoroughly evaluate your colon and to confirm the diagnosis.
Ask your doctor for an x-ray or CT scan if he or she suspects complications of ulcerative colitis.If you show signs and symptoms of potential ulcerative colitis complications, an x-ray and or CT scan is often the best way to view these.