
Avoid becoming intoxicated in public and at parties -- keep yourself to a 1-2 drink limit.
Always keep your eye on every beverage you drink.
Once you lose sight of your drink, do not consume it any more.
Do not give out personal information (such as your location or mobile number or address) or your daily schedule online.
Acknowledge and understand that consent to sexual activity can be withdrawn at any time.
Communicate your sexual and relationship boundaries clearly.
"No" does not mean "yes, if you pressure someone long enough".
Be cautious if a person habitually tends to negate your opinions and feelings: "You don't believe that," or "You really don't feel that way,".

,
Be cautious with anyone who displays hostility towards a gender or tends to verbally degrade and stereotype an entire gender: "They're all b****s or sluts", "They say one thing when they really mean another,".

,
Be assertive with anyone who ignores your personal boundaries, regardless of the length of time you've been acquainted with the person.
Make an observation of how an individual treats service staff (waiters, clerks etc.).
Date people whose background you are familiar with in real life.
If you feel uncomfortable during a date, but have no transportation, call a cab.
Avoid going into secluded areas with your date until you have known him for some time.
Always let someone know who you are going with and what your itinerary is.

,
Never be alone with people who ignore your personal boundaries.
A person should never make you feel obligated to engage in a sexual act (this includes kissing) simply because they paid for drinks/dinner/entertainment.
Do not go to an apartment or hotel room if you do not know the person well, and don't let them follow you to your room.
If you are at a hotel, nightclub or restaurant alone, ask staff if someone can escort you to your vehicle.
Don't be afraid to leave an uncomfortable environment.
Do not be afraid to make a scene if you feel threatened by an acquaintance.
Act like a "bad" person if you feel threatened.
When going out with friends, watch out for each other.
Do not personally engage in or allow anyone in your presence to engage in sexual behavior with a highly intoxicated, high or unconscious individual.
Resist peer influence to join in on any abusive or criminal act.

,
Offer assistance if you feel that someone is at risk or is being targeted for sexual assault.
If you witnessed what you believe is a sexual assault, or an individual admits to having committed a sexual assault, you are obligated to report this information to the police.

,
During a sexual assault, a victim should follow his or her instincts, while observing the behavior of the rapist as much as possible.
Be aware of rape myths and the damage they do to victims, both genders, and general societal perceptions of the nature of sexual assault.