
Be aware of acceptable doses of OTC pain medications.
Understand the risks of overusing OTC drugs.The greatest risk associated with excessive Acetaminophen (Tylenol) use is the possibility of liver toxicity.
Consult your doctor if you are unable to manage your pain without exceeding the recommended daily dosage of OTC drugs.
Lose weight to reduce your chronic pain.If you are suffering from chronic pain related to osteoarthritis, back pain, or other muscular or skeletal issues, being overweight simply adds to the stress and strain on your body.
Increase your exercise to reduce pain.If you have an injury that makes it challenging to do specific activities (as in, the injury itself is the source of your pain), you will of course want to avoid exercising in a way that worsens your pain; however, there are plenty of forms of exercise that you can try which put very little load on your body, such as riding a stationary bike, swimming, or pool running.
Improve your diet to decrease inflammation.Chronic pain is often linked to inflammation, and your diet can play a huge role in either worsening or improving the levels of inflammation in your body.
Consider a topical painkiller.Taking oral over-the-counter painkillers is more concerning when it comes to potential side effects in the long run than their topical counterparts.
Talk to your doctor about prescription-strength pain medications instead of OTC drugs.While OTC painkillers may, at first glance, seem less harmful than prescription-strength pain medications, this is not always true.
Tailor your choice of medication to the underlying illness to avoid reliance on OTC drugs.It is always important to consider the actual source (that is, the cause) of your pain, and to tailor your choice of medications accordingly.
Use heat/cold therapy and/or massage for muscles injuries, aches and pains.Applying ice (cold therapy) is generally advised in the first few days immediately following an injury.
Try herbal remedies.One option for pain control is to apply topical capsaicin to the skin over sore areas.
Visit an alternative practitioner for further pain-relief strategies.
Avoid activities or work duties that exacerbate your pain.
Consult an occupational therapist to modify your home environment and thus reduce triggers of your pain.
Consider surgery to resolve the underlying issue.Depending upon the underlying reason for your chronic pain, surgery may be very helpful in alleviating or reducing your pain.