
Go out as a family to nature reserves and community parks.
Discourage littering in any circumstances and teach them how to respect the local wildlife.

,
Get them into gardening early; start with the little things like digging and watering, and graduate to bigger projects like planting saplings in the yard, or gaining permission from the council to plant one in the park or at a lay-by.

,
Go vegetarian, vegan, or both.
Discourage dairy products if you're going the vegan route.
Don't let them drink sugary drinks (such as cola) except for special treats such as parties or celebrating good grades.
Don't use store-bought fruit juice as an alternative.
Think about how your child will clean up.
Don't use soap, hair products, or bubble bath unless they're natural compositions.
Teach them from an early age about when to use toilet paper and how much they need (girls in particular have trouble moderating their usage).
Calculate the environment's pros and cons for each possible pet.
Have a stuffed animal as an alternative.
Teach your child the "4 Rs" (Recycle, Reduce, Reuse, and Repair) from an early age.
Go out together on regular trips to pick up trash from the sidewalks, then sort it into separate bags of glass, metal, paper, and plastic waste.

,
Take the sorted waste to your local recycling bank and put it into the correct disposal units.
Make sure that the school is either within walking distance of the house or accessible by bus or bicycle.

,
Investigate the school's policies and attitudes on waste and power usage.
Encourage exploration of other hobbies and pass times.
Treat TV and computer time as a privilege that should be earned either through household chores or by recycling enough resources to act as a carbon offset.

,
Limit viewing of either gadget to less than 2 hours per person per day.
Don't assume that all TV isn't worth watching.
Consider the plethora of alternatives to electronics and oil-based plastics that both have an enormous global impact.
Both genders love to play dress-up; buy some second-hand costumes which suit your child's personality.
Play shouldn't be restricted to indoors.
Arts and crafts are great activities for both parents and children to enjoy together.