
Obtain a yearly influenza vaccine.The flu vaccine is available to everyone in the general population every year.
Ensure that your tetanus vaccine is up-to-date.It is recommended to receive the tetanus vaccination once every 10 years (as this is the length of time for which the vaccine is effective).
Get the shingles vaccine if you are over 65.The shingles vaccine is recommended for older adults to receive, around the age of 65 (and possibly earlier if you are at higher risk).
Obtain the HPV vaccine if you are a young girl or woman.The HPV vaccine (either Gardasil or Cervarix — there are two options) was newly developed to prevent HPV, which is a common sexually transmitted infection that can contribute to cervical cancer.
See if you are eligible for the chickenpox vaccine.
Have your children vaccinated for MMR.MMR stands for "measles, mumps, and rubella.",
Consider the pneumococcal vaccine.
Ask your doctor if you need any additional vaccinations.Some people, depending upon their occupation as well as their general health status, will be eligible for additional immunizations above and beyond those offered to the general population.
Seek additional vaccines if your immune system is compromised.When you think about keeping your vaccines up-to-date, it is important to do a general review of your health with your physician, and to consider whether your immune system is compromised in any way.
Develop a vaccination plan with your doctor.
Book an appointment with your doctor.It is important to book an appointment a few months in advance of your trip, to ensure that there is adequate time to receive all necessary vaccinations.
Write a list of the vaccines you have already had.
Schedule additional vaccine(s) depending on the area(s) you are travelling to.Your travel doctor can advise you as to what vaccines are recommended for the area you are travelling to, as well as any other medical concerns that may arise from travelling to that area (such as medications to deal with potential altitude sickness or traveler's diarrhea, among other things).
Follow through with all vaccine appointments.With the busyness of day-to-day life, it may seem challenging to attend all of the recommended medical and vaccine appointments prior to your trip.