
Choose a location.
Research and obtain any necessary permits and regulations.To work abroad in most countries, you will need to obtain a work visa from that country, or a visa that allows certain types of work.Each nation has specific and individual laws regarding foreign workers, so make sure to research these when deciding where you want to work abroad.
Decide if you want short-term or long-term work.Knowing whether or not you want to spend an extended period of time working abroad will help you when seeking a position overseas.
Figure out if you want to find a job and then move, or move first and find a job once you are abroad.Either option may be viable, depending on your situation and location.
Learn about the language and culture.Immersing yourself in the language and culture of a nation abroad is the best way to gain real international experience.
Develop special skills that will be valued abroad.If you have skills in a technical area, trade, or high-demand field—such as medicine, engineering, or Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL)—it may be easier to find work abroad.
Familiarize yourself with resources for finding jobs abroad.
Seek an overseas position with a company or organization based in your home country.One of the easiest ways to find work abroad is to shift to an international position in a company or organization that you already work for.
Find a government job.
Work for a nonprofit.Non-governmental organizations and nonprofits can also provide exciting work opportunities abroad.
Volunteer abroad.If you can’t find paid employment overseas, you can seek volunteer work instead.
Use a placement service.
Consider other forms of employment.
Discover the resources that are available to you.
Look for special student programs.
Seek an internship abroad.Internships can provide experience that will be valuable for future employment; by working an internship abroad, you will gain even richer knowledge, expertise, and training.
Seek academic credit for work abroad.