
Have a balloon hunt.
Make a puzzle present.
Give a mouse pad present.
Phone your partner.
Play the "A Kiss for Every Laugh" game.
Make the partner feel that you feel united with him/her.
Play the balloon game.
Call to see if you can pick up anything on the way home from work.

,
Make a date.
Write your partner a check for one million kisses.

,
Give him/her a lottery ticket and a note: "I hit the jackpot when I married you" or "You're one in a million.",
On cold mornings warm up your partner's car.

,
Seek inspiration.
Using a knife, trace/write "I love you" in the butter.
Hide a love note in the bottle of vitamins.
Scatter rose petals all over the bed.

,
Write notes on Post-it notes and stick them around the house.

,
Toss a coin in a fountain and make a wish together.

,
Compliment.
If your partner buys soda by the can, use a permanent marker to write "I love you" on the top of every can.
Wake up.
Hide a little gift for him/her so the two of you will find it during a walk together.

,
Shower together only in the light of candles.

,
Pull the bag out of your lover's (unused) breakfast cereal box and slit a small hole in it.
While your partner takes a shower, write the words "I love you" in the condensation of the bathroom mirror.
Play the question game.
One of the classics is giving flowers.
Wait for your partner to go to bed.
Send a dozen roses: 11 red roses and 1 white one.
Put a new piece of jewelry in their jewelry box and wait for them to notice it.

,
As a kind of gift, give them a home made "coupon" for something like one free kiss or one free massage.
Take the time to write a poem, even if it is a bit goofy.
Take them out on a date that is all about catering to their desires (i.e.
Take pictures of them, which they can not notice and create a video with the favorite song playing in the background.

,
Take your partner to a coffee house.
Don't be afraid to tell your partner when they've aroused you; tell them teasing how they're leading you into temptation and then kiss them.
If you have a romantic partner, remember that it goes both ways.
Write a "respect" letter.
Cook a meal, whether breakfast or dinner.
Bring romance to the bedroom and do something out of the ordinary.