
"SPICES";
,
"Zeera/Jeera" or Cumin Seeds: These are seeds that have a lovely smell and add a unique flavour to the food.
"Haldi" or Turmeric: This yellow root is mostly used in the powder form.
"Sarson/Saasvi" or Mustard: This spice is used mostly in the whole form.
"Mirchi" or Chillies: This is also what forms a part of the Tadka.
"Methi" or Fenugreek Seeds: These seeds are slightly bitter, but they are quintessential to south Indian and Bengali cooking.
Ajwain or Carom Seeds or Bishop's Seeds: This spice is generally roasted and powdered and used a masala.
Saunf or Fennel seeds: These seeds look almost like jeera, but are not as spicy.
"FATS"


,
Oil: Several varieties of oils are used in India, depending upon the region.
Ghee or Clarified butter.
Garam Masala: The mixture of many spices is called as garam masala.

,
Coriander powder: A perfect spice for giving taste and aroma.

,
Cream: Cream is mostly favored in the North Indian style of cooking.
"FLAVORS"


,
Indian food in a lot of parts (Gujarat, Bengal,Karnataka, Andhra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra) is a blend of all flavors, sweet, sour, spice and salt.
Imli/Hunshehannu or Tamarind: This is the "sour" factor in our food.
Amchur or Dry Mango Powder: This is actually exactly that.
Lemons: This refers to the tiny green things that in America is called Lime.
Kaala Namak or Black Salt: This pungent salt is one of the major features of most chaat items.
Rock Salt: Many south Indian houses still use rock salt for cooking.
Gud or jaggery: This is actually the by-product of boiling sugar-cane juice to make sugar.
Sugar: Indian sugar is made of cane juice and hence is really very sweet, compared to sugar made from beet juice or any other source.
"HARDWARE"


,
Rolling pins: Indian rolling pins are thinner, with a good grip.
Kadai/Wok: Indian kadais, are almost like the Chinese wok.
Tawa or Skillet: This can be your flat omelette making skillet, the shape rarely matters, except when you are making dosas.
Pressure Cooker: Every Indian household swears by this item.
Idli stand: This useful item is used for steaming idlis, momos, modaks and can be used for steaming idiappams etc.