
Choose the bird species with care.
Familiarize yourself with the most common species of birds owned as pets.
Consider the bird's longevity.
If getting more than one bird, consider the appropriate housing arrangements.
Purchase the right kind of cage for housing the bird.
Consider the cage shape.
Ensure that the space is more than adequate if housing more than one bird.
Ensure that placement of the cage is somewhere warm and comfortable.
Place some old magazines/unneeded papers on the bottom of the cage.
Transport the bird in a proper carrying container.
When you first bring the bird home, leave it for a day to get used to its environment.
Identify the exact foods needed by the species of bird you're caring for.
Know what birds should not be fed.
Provide constant fresh water.
Keep the feeding arrangements sanitary.
Try feeding the bird regularly at about the same time each day.
Make feeding interesting for the bird.
Add enrichment material to the bird's cage to ensure that it is entertained and challenged.
Start off with at least four toys that are varied and interesting.
Don't use the same toys over and over again.
Place food and enrichment items in multiple places around the cage on a daily basis.
Get the bird used to being handled.
Ensure that the bird gets daily exercise.
Give the bird lots of attention.
Provide water in a large enough container for self-cleansing.
Keep the cage properly and regularly cleaned.
Find out whether your bird's wing feathers need regular trimming.
Know the signs of a bird that is either too hot or too cold.
Find a vet who is qualified to work with birds.
Put effort into training your bird.
When training the bird outside of its housing, check the safety of the room.
If training a bird to talk, be sure it is a bird that will talk before trying.
If you plan on getting two birds, separate them at first and hand-train alone.
Encourage birds to your garden.
If you wish to help nesting birds, you might like to encourage them to use your yard as a nesting space.
If you find birds (especially baby birds) out of the nest, it can be helpful to know what to do.
If you have found a wild bird that is either an injured bird, or a lost young bird, you can help.