
Look out for sudden, intense chest pain.Sudden intense chest pain can occur in a number of serious medical conditions, including heart attacks, certain acute lung problems, and also in aortic dissection.
Watch for chest pain that radiates to your back.One of the "red flag" (key) symptoms that leads doctors to suspect an aortic dissection is if your chest pain radiates through to your back.
Take note if the pain spreads to other areas.While the pain of an aortic dissection often initially radiates from your chest into your back, after a while it may begin to spread elsewhere in your body (as the aortic dissection becomes worse).
Notice if you feel faint, lightheaded, or dizzy.Because an aortic dissection can lead to decreased blood circulating through your body (as the flow of blood is impeded to the rest of the body by the dissection), it can lead to feeling faint, lightheaded, and/or dizzy.
Evaluate your pulse.Because of the deceased circulation that occurs in an aortic dissection, you may also notice that your pulse becomes more rapid and weaker, typically first on the left arm.
Observe for shortness of breath.This occurs particularly when lying down.
Watch for pale, sweaty skin.Pale skin, heavy sweating, and a feeling of anxiety and doom are common in aortic dissection.
Go to the Emergency Room immediately.As previously mentioned, an aortic dissection is a life-threatening condition that needs immediate medical attention and treatment.
Have your blood pressure measured in both arms.One of the key signs of a possible aortic dissection is having a significant difference in blood pressure between one of your arms and the other.
Receive blood tests.Another thing that will happen when you arrive in the Emergency Room is that you will be given blood tests.
Get an electrocardiogram and/or ongoing cardiac monitoring.
Opt for medical imaging.The only definitive way to diagnose an aortic dissection is via an imaging test such as a CT scan or MRA (magnetic resonance angiogram).
Ask your doctor for medications to control your symptoms.If you are indeed diagnosed with an aortic dissection, you will be given medications (such as narcotics like Morphine) for pain control.
Have surgery if needed.If you are experiencing an aortic dissection, you may need emergency surgery to save your life.