
Prioritize an aerobic exercise routine.One of the best things you can do for your blood pressure during pregnancy (and also for your overall health) is to prioritize an exercise routine.
Stay as close as possible to your ideal body weight.Ideally, before becoming pregnant, you will already have been at your ideal body weight.
Quit smoking.Smoking has been correlated to raising your blood pressure so, if you are worried about having blood pressure problems during pregnancy, now may be the time to quit smoking.
Optimize the health of your diet.Prioritizing a healthy diet can have a noticeable impact on blood pressure.
Reduce your stress.Psychological and emotional stress has been linked to high blood pressure; therefore, if you can take steps to stay as relaxed as possible during your pregnancy it will give you the best chance of maintaining a healthy blood pressure.
Have your blood pressure monitored regularly.One key aspect of prenatal care is to obtain regular blood pressure measurements.
Know which blood pressure medications are safe during pregnancy.There are a variety of different classes of blood pressure medications (in other words, there are many different drugs to choose from).
Get tested for any other signs or symptoms that may occur concurrently with high blood pressure.
Understand what defines gestational hypertension.Gestational hypertension is when you develop high blood pressure 20 or more weeks into your pregnancy (assuming that you were not diagnosed with high blood pressure prior to this point).
Look out for signs of preeclampsia.Oftentimes preeclampsia is diagnosed by having both high blood pressure as well as protein in your urine; however, doctors have recently come to find that preeclampsia can be present even without protein in your urine if you display any other signs of potential organ damage.
Be aware of potential risks to your baby.The reason that it is important to maintain good blood pressure control during pregnancy is to avoid possible complications to your pregnancy and/or to your baby's health.