
Start with a lemonade stand.
Attach the side pieces to the front pieces using brackets.
Put to one side.
Stack the two 1"x6" boards on top of each other with their ends even.
Position the cut pieces on your work surface.
Glue up the top frame.
Lift up one of the long sides and put glue on the top surfaces of the two ends beneath it.




,
Replace the piece.Repeat previous step with the other long side.
Check the alignment one last time and try to get the top frame as close to square as you can.
When the glue is dry, turn the top frame over.
Put the 1 1/4-inch Forester bit in the drill chuck set the spur of the bit in one of the small holes you punched with the awl.




,
Drill a hole all the way through the long side and the end piece beneath it.
Turn the top frame upside down on your work surfaces, with the filler pieces facing down and the short sides to your left and right.On the other line, mark a point 2 inches (5.1 cm) in from the near edge of the frame.
Reach across to the long side away from you and square a line 1 inch (2.5 cm) in from each edge at one of the far comers.
Put the 5/16-inch bit in the drill chuck.
Cut the ruffle cloth into three 12-inch-widc s tulips.
Fold each piece in half lengthwise and run a hot iron along the folds.
Turn the top frame so that the filler pieces face up and one of the long sides hangs about 2 inches (5.1 cm) off the front of the wad (?),
Find the midpoint of one of the pieces of ruffle cloth.
Make the first pleat.
Make the next pleat.
When you reach the end of the cloth, staple the end to the frame.When you get to the corner of the top frame, turn and reclamp the frame on the work surface and turn the corner with the fabric.
Continue pleating until you reach the end of the short side.
Go back to the middle of the front and repeat the pleating and stapling process, working to the right, until you have completed the ruffle all the way across the front and the other short side.




,
Glue a long piece of ribbon along the top of the ruffle to hide the staples.
Cut the curtain fabric in half.Lay one of the pieces of fabric flat on the work surface.
On one of the long sides, fold over 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the edge.
Repeat this process on both of the short sides of the top frame.
Fold, iron, and staple the remaining long sides.
Clip the curtain loops to one of the long sides of each piece.
Uncoil the two lengths of copper tubing.
When the copper tubing is straightened, lay the two lengths side by side.
Grab one length of tubing in both hands.
Grip the tube at the second mark (31 3/4 inches from the end, in the center), with the bent end on your right and pointing up.
Hold the tubing with the unworked end on your left, the second bend pointing downward, and the first bend pointing toward you.
Repeat.
Place the curtain frame upside down with the 5/16 -inch holes in the corners closest to you.
Insert the ends a short way into the 5/16-inch hole until the rods support themselves.
Remove the curtain rods one at a time.
Insert the ends of the rod back into the 3/16–inch holes.
Set the frame on edge with its top surface facing you.