
Complete "Exodus in America".
,
After doing some missions for Bonnie, go over to the game of horseshoes it will take a while but eventually you will get it ( Remember: for the first twenty missions, don't change your horse).
Go to a stranger and complete a quest for them.When you start trouble, quickly switch to expert Targeting and manually aim for a headshot.
Go to Armadillo Jail and lift a bounty, search for him, kill his guards and then lasso him back (Note: If you do the mission with the lasso, you will have unlocked the lasso.),Go to Thieves Landing, go to the tailor shop at the end, buy the Elegant suit for $70.
Get Spurred to Victory.The second Trophy mission, just follow the instructions and you're in the harsh land of Mexico.By this stage you should have one, but if not, replay Old Swindler Blues and on your first go, try for under two Minutes, your second get loads of Headshots and the third time be 100% accurate.
Now that you're getting the hang of things, Grab a woman and hog tie her, take her to a train track where a train is coming and simply drop her on it, MHUHAHAHA!!,Complete twin rocks, Pikes basin and Gaptooth Breach to unlock.Go to Armadillo, stand on top of the saloon and start going on a killing spree to earn $5000 and quickly jump down and give the man a pardon letter {You should have Loads from Missions}.Just do the Mexican Hideout and Tumbleweed.Go to the weapons store in Escalara and buy the semi-auto Shotgun for $1100, you should have enough money unless you are spending on Pointless things like apples and moonshine.
Use the Long arm of Marston.
Get trophies.
Manifest Destiny.Go Hunt Bears in the Great Forest but beware they are hard to kill and usually hunt in two's, Make sure you skin them.
High Roller.
Win in poker.
Fight around the world.
Bucking Awesome.
Unnatural Selection.
On the Trail of de Vaca.
Frontiersman.
Heading South on a white Bronco.
A savage soul.
People are still strange.
The Benefits of Civilization.
In a Hail of Bullets.
Into the sunset.
Nurture or nature.
More than a fistful.
Man of Honor/Chivalry's Dead.
Redeemed.