
Understand you're not looking for a job; you're offering your services.
Familiarize yourself with the company, what it does, and the products it sells.
If you know someone who works at the company already, by all means contact them!,
Understand that if you want a specific job, but don't know the language used, you can still get the job!,
Many companies these days will screen candidates by phone before inviting them to a face-to-face interview.
The initial phone screen may be conducted by a non-technical person.
If you pass the first screen (or there isn't one), next comes the engineering screen.
In this and all interviews, make sure you understand the question!,
If you passed the engineering screen (or there wasn't one), the next step will be the in-person interview.
Get a good night's sleep the night before, and eat a good breakfast.

,
Always wear a suit (or similarly conservative dress for a woman) to an interview unless you have been specifically told otherwise.
Be on time for the interview, or a few minutes early.
The person you will meet first is often someone from Human Resources.
During your interviews, try to be emotionally centered and relaxed.
Programming questions tend to start off easy and get harder as you progress.
Architecture and design questions tend to be naturally looser, and imaginative solutions count for a lot.
Some questions may involve solving logic puzzles that aren't programming-specific.
If you're given a question already asked by a previous interviewer at the company, inform them of that immediately!,
It's OK to say "I don't know" to an interviewer's question, but you should never leave it at that.
When offered something to drink (water, soda, coffee, tea), say yes.
Ask engineers about their responsibilities and what they like about the company.

,
Ask managers about the company, the products you'd be working on, and their "management style".
Don't be afraid to ask for feedback from an interviewer at the end of a session.

,
Save questions about benefits for HR.
At this stage, a few companies may be ready to make you an offer.
The second interview may involve more engineers, but more often involves your boss's boss, their boss, and a longer session with HR.
When asked about salary, if you're a new graduate, just ask for "a competitive offer".

,
For someone more experienced, give a salary range if pressed for a number.
It's OK to answer the question, "What was your most recently salary?",
Always ask for stock options!

,
If, by leaving your present position, you'd lose your vacation seniority, ask for the same number of vacation days per year to start.

,
It's especially good if you have an offer from another company.
When the company makes you an offer (yay!,
Most of all, good luck!

