
Check the differential to determine if it needs maintenance.
Set the truck on a lift, or jack up both rear wheels so they can be rotated by hand.
Check the differential lubricant.
Go to one rear tire with the truck in gear or park, and rock it forward and backward, listening for noises that indicate loose metal parts or grinding.
Shake the wheel from side to side, then up and down to see if there is any loose motion.
Inspect the pinion flange and driveshaft coupling.
Road test the truck.
Proceed to the next set of steps if you have decided a condition will require maintenance of your differential.
Jack the truck up and support it with jack stands.
Get an oil drain pan or other container to catch differential lubricant when the differential is disassembled.
Borrow or buy a differential tube adjusting wrench so the preload adjusters can be reversed.
Gather wrenches, including 12mm, 13,mm, 15mm, 17mm, and a 5⁄16 inch (0.8 cm) box end wrench, along with a pry bar, and a pair of locking pliers like Vice Grips.
Locate and price out a full parts list.
Remove the drive shaft from the pinion flange.
Remove the pinion nut.
Pull the pinion flange off the pinion gear splines and set it on a clean surface, then remove the pinion oil seal and the outer pinion bearing.
Remove the differential cover.
Inspect the differential carrier.
Rotate the carrier until you see the wrist pin lock bolt.
Push the wrist pin out of its hole until it is beyond the ends of the axles.
Remove the lock clips (horseshoe shaped clips on the inside ends of the axles) by sliding the axles in, toward the center of the differential, and then rotating them.
Pull the axles out of the axle tubes.
Reposition the wrist pin in the center of the carrier, and thread the locking pin back into the hole far enough to prevent the wrist pin from sliding out again.
Remove the locking clips from each of the carrier bearing support caps.
Slide the preloading nut tool through each axle tube and engage the nut on the end of the axle tube adjacent to the differential housing.
Remove the carrier bearing cap bolts.
Remove the carrier from the differential housing.
Remove the pinion gear by tapping the threaded end with a soft faced hammer.
Clean all of the parts you have removed thoroughly.
Remove the wrist pin as you did in Step 10, above.
Remove the carrier bearings from the carrier.
Remove the crush sleeve from the pinion gear.
Drive the pinion bearing races out of the differential assembly.
Flush the differential housing to remove oil and metal particles from it.
Inspect the gears and bearings for wear and damaged surfaces.
Decide on whether the critical surfaces of the pinion gear and shaft are suitable for reinstallation into the differential.
Install the new races in the pinion housing of your differential.
Install the bearing on the pinion gear shaft, tapping it using the old bearing's inner race or a section of smooth pipe the same outside diameter as the bearing's inner race.
Install the pinion gear into the differential housing.
Install the outer pinion shaft flange onto the pinion shaft, then the washer, and finally the nut.
Tighten the pinion nut tightly enough to crush the sleeve to specification.
Back the pinion nut off enough that the pinion shaft can be turned by hand.
Use an inch-pound torque wrench to adjust the pinion bearing preload.
Install the new bearings on your carrier assembly.
Reinstall the old clutches (or new ones), keeping the C-clips in position as you slide the axle-end gears and clutches into position.
Install the spider gears.
Install the wrist pin, making sure the retaining pin hole is on the side of the carrier with its corresponding hole, and turned to align with it.
Paint gear-marking paint on the ring gear's mating surface if you are going to reset the gear position.
Install the carrier into the differential housing.
Install the carrier bearing caps onto the carrier bearings, and install the bolts that fasten them into place.
Using the internal axle tube wrench, turn these nuts back the same number of turns you backed them off earlier.
Check the carrier for side-to-side play.
Use a dial indicator to determine if the ring gear is turning in a true fashion if you want.
Turn the ring gear one full turn forward, then one full turn reverse, to mark the gear contact pattern in the gear marking paint you applied earlier, if you are going to do this.
Look behind the carrier to see if the pinion gear's teeth are set flush with the end of the ring gear teeth if you are not using gear marking paint to establish their position.
Retest the torque on the pinion shaft with the ring gear engaged with the pinion gear.
Reinstall the axles when you are satisfied the ring and pinion gears are set up correctly and the bearing pre loads are adjusted to specification.
Remove the lock pin from the carrier wrist pin.
Slide the axles back into the carrier, fitting the splines in the axle end gears, and pushing through so the clip grooves are beyond the inside edge of the end gears.
Reinstall the wrist pin and the wrist pin retaining pin and tighten it snugly.
Tighten the bearing caps for the carrier bearings, then the preload nut retaining clips.
Clean the differential cover when you are satisfied with the set up and preload on the carrier bearings, ring gear, and pinion gear and bearings.
Remove the pinion flange and nut.
Install the pinion washer and nut.
Reinstall the drive shaft, using thread locking compound on the fastening bolt threads.
Fill the differential with 75w90 gear oil, adding the friction modifier between the first and second quart of gear oil.
Remove the jack stands and lower the vehicle back to the ground.