
Stay organized.
Clean out your binder, backpack, & locker once a week.
Have all the necessary papers, notebooks etc.
Get a homework planner or agenda notebook and write down every assignment.
Start studying for any test or quiz at least a week before the day of it.
Take notes.
Learn how to work as a team.
Remember to take charge, but not too bossy.
In the end, just do your work well and follow the steps above.
Be nice, kind, sweet, and caring.
Be yourself.
Try giving different people compliments throughout your day.
If it's possible, see if you can give every person in your school or grade a true, kind compliment throughout the year.
,
Sit with different people at lunch and in class.
Every once in a while when a newbie looks lost, subtly guide them in the right direction.
If you see someone drop a something, help them pick it up.
Don't be afraid to talk to other people.
Sex is not cool and is something you should not get caught in or even participate in.
Clean your ears with q-tips weekly.
,
Clean your earrings too (if you have them.),
Make sure you shower or bath at least every other day.
,
In the shower or bath, you should shave your underarms and your legs.
,
Each night before bed, put on antiperspirant, or deodorant.
Do not shave your arms.
Find a product that works with your hair.
Shampoo & condition your hair.
Wash your body with a nice smelling soap & body wash.
,
Try to scrub with a washcloth any areas you find dead skin.
Once you're out of the shower try using a nice leave in conditioner.
,
Air dry your hair, because hair dryers can really damage hair.

,
Don't go anywhere with sopping wet hair.
Brush and floss your teeth with a good toothpaste and mouthwash at least two times each day.
Use lotion on your hands, feet, or anywhere you have dry skin at least twice a week.

,
Don't be afraid to put on some make-up, and see what looks good on you.
If your eyelashes are black, then use black mascara.
Eyeliner color depends just on your eyes and your face in general.
If you have naturally nice colored lips, clear lip gloss works.
If you really want to go above and beyond you can use the makeup said above, plus concealer, loose powder/bronzer.
Use neutral skin matching color eyeshadow.

,
Remember, it's just middle school!,
Remember that the key to a really good look is to go with the trend, but with your own flavor.

,
Don't wear casual clothes everyday.
Buy bras that fit right.
Buy underwear that doesn't have thick seams.
For shoes Ugg Boots are a must (first pair in black, others in other colors/design).

,
If you can't afford Uggs, EMUs is a brand that sell identical boots like Uggs but can be found at cheaper prices.

,
If you can't afford Uggs or EMUs then just buy cute black "winter styled" boots, or Fuggs.
Converse/All Stars (again, first pair in plain black, others in other colors/design) are good, comfortable, and super trendy!,
Buy any adorable flip flops or sandals or boots that your heart desires.

,
A pair of good athletic/running shoes are always necessary.

,
Stick with your natural hair.
Don't dye your hair a different color.
You can occasionally curl/straighten/wave/cut your hair, but not all the time.
When it comes to styles the best and easiest ones are:


ponytails
braids
buns
Several variations can be found in hair tutorials on YouTube, many of which are very easy and simple to do!

,
Even just plain down, or down with a cute headband or pretty barrettes or clips works.