
Install the Homebrew Channel to rip and play games.
Update your Wii to the latest available version.
Get an SD card that is 2 GB or smaller.
Format your SD card on your computer.
Determine your Wii's MAC address.
Visit .please.hackmii.com on your computer's browser.
Enter your Wii's MAC address into the fields.
Select your region in the "System Menu Version" section.
Click "I'm not a robot" and then click one of the download buttons.
Double-click the downloaded ZIP file.
Copy the folder and file from the ZIP file to your SD card.
Remove your SD card from your computer and insert it in the Wii.
Click the Messages button on the Wii's main menu.
Select the red letter to launch the letterbomb exploit.
Press "1" and then "A" on your Wii remote to continue when prompted.
Select "BootMii" and press "A.",
Select "Prepare an SD card" and then "Yes, continue.",
Select "Install BootMii as IOS.",
Return to the main menu and select "Install The Homebrew Channel.",
Select "Exit" after installation to load the Homebrew Channel.
Format an external drive or flash drive as FAT32.
Download the IOS236 v6 installer.
Download the d2x cIOS installer.
Download the Configurable USB Loader (CFG) installer.
Extract the CFG files onto your SD card.
Extract the iOS236 v6 and d2x cIOS installers into the new "apps" folder.
Download the replacement XML file for CFG loader.
Replace the meta.xml file in your SD card's apps\USBLoader directory.
Open the "sample_config.txt" file.
Add the following two lines to the bottom of the file.
Click the File menu, select "Save As," and rename the file to "config.txt.",
Insert the SD card back into your Wii and start the Homebrew Channel.
Select the "IOS236 Installer v6" option and click "Load.",
Press "1" on the Wii remote to begin the installation.
Select "<Download IOS from NUS>" when prompted.
Press "A" when prompted to begin installation.
Press "2" to finish the installation.
Return to the Homebrew Channel and select "D2X cIOS Installer.",
Set your installer menus.
Press "A" to begin the installation, then highlight Slot 248 and press "A" again.
Load "D2X cIOS Installer" from the Homebrew Channel again.
Set your installer menus again.
Press "A" to begin the installation, then highlight Slot 247 and press "A" again.
Plug your formatted external drive or USB drive into your Wii.
Open the Homebrew Channel and select "Configurable USB Loader.",
Select "USB" when prompted.
Ensure IOS 248 is selected and start the program.
Save your settings.
Insert a disc that you want to copy into your Wii.
Open Configurable USB Loader if it isn't already.
Press "+" in the CFG main menu.
Click "Install.",
Select an installed game in CFG Loader.
Press "A" to launch the game.
Continue installing games.
Consider using the USB Loader instead of burning your games.
Obtain some Wii game image files.
Convert image files copied from your USB drive.
Visit imgburn.com and download ImgBurn.
Start the ImgBurn installation process.
Uncheck the Ask Toolbar ads while installing.
Launch ImgBurn after installing.
Select "Write image file to disc" from the ImgBurn menu.
Insert a blank DVD+/-R disc into your DVD burner.
Select your Wii ISO file as the Source.
Select a low write speed.
Click the Burn button in the lower-left corner.
Wait for the burn to complete.
Load the game in your USB Loader.