
Tie the fabric into a tight knot.
Center the two 24" (60cm) pieces of florist's wire over the knot.
Wrap the wires around the knot, and twist them tightly to make them secure.
Place the candle over a lighter or other open flame until the wax melts down into a liquid state.
Place the knot into the hot, melted wax and let it soak for three to five minutes.

,
Remove the newly created wick from the wax.
Wrap the aluminum-foil strip around the knot in the center of the wick.
Cut three bamboo skewers in half lengthwise using either a razor blade or a utility knife.
Line the split bamboo up end to end on a table to make a single long strip.
Secure the overlapping connection points together with non-flammable tape.
Tape the ends of the foil-wrapped wires that protrude from the wick to opposite sides of the bamboo frame.
Hang 16-20 pieces of kitchen paper towel (or about half that of tissue paper) on a clothesline using clothespins (pegs).

,
Place a plastic or canvas drop cloth under the paper to catch any drippings.

,
Spray both sides of each piece of paper thoroughly with the fireproofing spray.
Draw a vertical line 40" (about 1 meter) long down the center of the brown craft paper.
Draw a horizontal line 12" (30cm) long at the base of the vertical line.
Draw a second horizontal line that is 22" (1/2 meter) long approximately two thirds of the way up the vertical line.
Connect the two horizontal lines by sketching a line that curves gently inward before meeting the vertical line.
Draw a second line mirroring the line that you just drew to connect the left tips of the two horizontal lines.

,
Sketch mirroring lines that connect each end of the upper horizontal line to the top of the vertical line.
Cut the shape that you've drawn out of the brown craft paper using scissors.
Lay the 16-20 fireproofed paper pieces on a flat surface.
Use a non-flammable glue to seal the overlapped ends of the papers together.
Lay one 2-piece panel of paper towel/tissue paper over the brown craft paper pattern.
Repeat this step with the remaining 2-piece paper panels.

,
Connect the pointed tips of the paper towel/tissue paper panels together.
Attach the opening of the paper bag to the bamboo frame.
Fold the end of the paper bag upward to cover the frame.
Take your lantern outside at night or at dusk.