
Use over-the-counter medication for fevers caused by colds and flu.
Try taking a bath in lukewarm water.
Drink water.
Take supplements to boost immune health.Supplements can fill nutritional needs, helping your body fight the cause of fever.
Administer "wet socks treatment" at home.If you go to sleep wearing wet socks, your body will defend itself by circulating blood and lymphatic fluid to your wet feet.
Cool children's bodies if necessary.
Stay as comfortable as possible.
Hydrate and eat mild foods to recover from gastrointestinal (GI) infection.
Consume herbs known to fight fever.
Take care not to spread infection.While you are ill, make sure to cover your mouth and nose while coughing and sneezing, and dispose of used tissues properly.
Recall if anyone around you has been sick lately.
Keep a temperature log.If the illness doesn't resolve on its own, you want to be able to give the doctor a detailed log of how the fever has behaved.
Record your other symptoms.
Seek medical advice.
Follow your doctor's instructions for viral infections.
Take antibiotics for bacterial infections.Bacterial infections are highly treatable, and generally respond well to antibiotics.
Talk to your doctor about other causes of fever.
Use a digital thermometer to take your temperature orally.A digital thermometer can measure your temperature orally, rectally, or in the armpit.
Take your temperature in the armpit.Either remove your shirt or wear a loose shirt that allows you to take the measurement at your armpit.
Decide which measurement method to use on a child.
Take the child’s temperature rectally with a digital thermometer.Make sure the tip of the thermometer has been sterilized in rubbing alcohol then rinsed clean.
Interpret the results.
Get vaccinated.
Get enough sleep every day.Adults who get less than six hours of sleep per night have impaired immune responses.
Eat a healthy diet.What you put into your body can have a massive effect on its ability to fight infection.
Avoid contact with germs.If you know someone is ill, keep your distance until they've recovered and are no longer contagious.
Reduce your stress levels.Studies show that high levels of stress actually depress the immune system's response.