
For a professional, clean look and good options, you'll have to make the wise decision of which photo editor you're going to use.
Make sure you have your character's picture saved onto your computer.
Go to the PicMonkey website.
Click "Edit a Photo.",
Once you click "Open," you should be directly led to the photo editor.
Turn your attention to the left side of the screen on the photo editor.
Click the second button that has the magic wand icon on it.
Scroll down until you reach the category "Basic.",
Darken the edges.
Click apply once you've finished darkening your edges.
Scroll up on the Effects menu till you see "Cross Process" underneath the category "Tried and True.",
Choose the tint of color you would like on your photograph.
You can fade the tint away if you think it's a little too much.
Underneath "Cross Process," click on the option "Dusk.",
Play around with the fade option until you're happy with the result.
Scroll on down to "Sepia" underneath the category "Basic.",
On the left, a box with different tints of brown and yellow should pop up, while a small circle highlights one of the tints.
Focus your attention on the menu on the far left.
A list of many different fonts should appear once you click the icon.
Once you have decided which text fits your character best, click on the desired font before mousing up to the giant button that screams "Add Text.",
Upon clicking "Add Text," a text box should pop up on your character's picture.
Click on the text box.
Drag your character's name around on the picture until you find a suitable area for it.
Once you're finished with the character banner, click "Save" to save your banner to your computer.
Use the recommended quality, unless if you desire a different quality.
Type in the name of your character banner and click the save button.
In order to use your character banner, you'll need to upload the image.
Upload your character banner onto the website.
Go to the website where your roleplay is located.
Show off your gorgeous work to your fellow roleplayers.