
Learn all the words that you'll need to spell in the text box.
Use a solid motion when moving from one letter to the next.
Realize that you may make corrections to the words as you Swype from one letter to the next.
Download, install and activate the Swype keyboard.
Make sure that you've selected a box that can contain text and not some other type of entry box that requests other type of data from data collection.
Locate the first letter that you'd like to start the word with.
Draw a straight line through all subsequent letters without stopping.
Release your finger from the keyboard once the word is complete.
Double check the word.
Tap the spacebar on the Swype keyboard to advance to the next word and continue Swyping with the next word or begin your next word and the keyboard will recognize you aren't continuing on the same word (if it can recognize both words signed are different words).

,
Use the Swype keyboard method above up to and including the first half of the word with the consecutively repeated-lettered letter.

,
Make a tiny loop on top of the same-lettered key that will become repetitive.
Drop the line back down to a single line as you Swype the rest of the word into the device.

,
Release your finger from the keyboard once the word is complete, then continue Swyping other words.
Type the letter with the Swype keyboard.
Tap the spacebar on the Swype keyboard to advance to the next word.

,
Tap the Shift key in one single tap.
Swype from letter to letter as you learned earlier.
Type the word letter for letter on the Swype keyboard as if you are using the standard Apple keyboard.
Look for and tap the correct word after you type it in.
Look for and tap on the predictive text bar to change to a line that says something like "Add (x/any new word it doesn't recognize) to dictionary".
Tap each letter from your word, as if adding a new word to the dictionary up until the symbol.

,
Locate and place your finger on the letter containing the symbol with the accent mark on it.
Slide your finger to that choice of letter or tap back into the text box to get you out of that list and repeat until finding the correct character.

,
Continue tapping the additional letters after the word with the accent mark and press the Spacebar from the screen to get out of manual entry mode.
Tap each letter from your word before the symbol, as if adding a new word to the personal dictionary on the device up until the symbol.
Tap the "?123" button.
Look for and tap the symbol from the keyboard, when it appears.
Return to the Swype alphabetic keyboard by tapping the ABC key.
Finish your Swype pattern or phrase using any of the methods above.

