
Check to see if your TSH reading is in the normal range.The first thyroid test that is generally taken by physicians is the TSH.
Interpret the possible meanings of a high TSH reading.TSH tells the thyroid to produce more T4 and T3, which are the hormones released from the thyroid (at the command of TSH) to act throughout the body.
Look out for signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism.In addition to a high TSH reading, hypothyroidism also presents with many clinical indications.
Evaluate the possible meaning of a very low TSH reading.On the other hand, if you have a very low TSH reading, it may be your body's response for your pituitary to produce less TSH due to an excess of thyroid hormone in the body (T3 and T4).
Take note of signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism.Hyperthyroidism presents with many clinical indications, in addition to a low TSH reading.
Use your TSH value to monitor ongoing thyroid treatment.If you have been diagnosed with a thyroid disorder and are receiving ongoing treatment for it, your doctor will likely advise that you receive regular TSH tests to check in on and confirm the effectiveness of your treatment.
Check to see if your T4 reading is in the normal range.T4 is the most commonly measured hormone that is produced directly by the thyroid gland, and is subsequently released to circulate throughout the body.
Interpret your T4 value in relationship to your TSH value.If your TSH value is abnormally high (indicative of possible hypothyroidism), a low T4 would support the diagnosis of hypothyroidism.
Assess the T3 value in cases of possible hyperthyroidism.T3 is another hormone produced by the thyroid gland, but generally in significantly lesser quantities than T4.
Include your doctor.
Interpret thyroid antibody testing to differentiate between various types of thyroid diseases.If you have been diagnosed with a thyroid disorder, your doctor will likely order a series of other thyroid investigations in order to more thoroughly investigate and confirm your diagnosis.
Have your calcitonin measured.A calcitonin test may be performed to further investigate thyroid problems.
Receive an ultrasound, a biopsy, or an iodine test to confirm certain thyroid diagnoses.While blood tests can provide physicians with valuable information to detect and diagnose thyroid problems, there are cases where more extensive investigations are required to determine exactly what is going on.