
Start with a setup for your general inshore fishing.
Consider stepping it up for larger fish.
Go lighter if you're aiming for smaller fish.
Start with some large plastic baits.
Get some DOA baits.
Stock up on other Gulp!,
Get a "shrimpy jig.",
Get some curly-tailed grubs.
Use topwater plugs when fishing for medium-sized fish, such as trout and red drum.
If you plan to fish for any kind of jacks, keep another type of topwater plug in with your tackle.
Consider subsurface plugs.
Consider Spro bucktail jigs.
Purchase a few sabiki rigs if you want to catch your own live bait without a net.
Pick live bait based on what fish you're targeting.
Remember the terminal tackle needed to fish with soft plastic baits.
Keep in mind the rigs needed to fish with live bait for inshore fish.
Build your light tackle rig for targeting the top and middle of the water column.
To target the bottom of the water column for small fish, simply take the previous rig, and remove the float.
To target medium sized fish in the top/middle of the water, start by placing a medium or large-sized orange egg float on your mainline.
To target medium sized fish on the bottom, you’ll want to start by threading an egg sinker onto your main line.
To target larger fish, start by building the top/middle rig.
To target large fish on the bottom, use a fixed sinker rig.
Get to know some of the sport fish you might encounter in your fishing.
Look for striped bass from Maine into the Carolinas inshore.
Look for bluefish on most of the Atlantic coast, from Maine down to Florida.
Look for weakfish from about New York to North Carolina.
Look for black drum from about New York to Florida.
Look for flounder of various species from Maine to Florida, although the largest flounder are typically found from Massachusetts to Georgia.
Look for redfish from about New York to Florida.
Look for spotted seatrout from New Jersey to Florida.
Look for permit in good numbers in Florida.
Look for snook in Florida.
Look for tarpon from Virginia to Florida.
Look for bonefish in Florida.
Look for spanish mackerel from Maryland to Florida - although in warm months they go as far north as Massachusetts.
Look for sheepshead from New York to Florida.
Look for ladyfish in Florida, Georgia, and the Carolinas.
Look for croaker from Massachusetts to Florida.
Look for whiting from about New Jersey to Florida, depending on the species.
Look for jack crevalle in the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida.
Look for pompano in the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida.
Look for sharks such as blacktip, spinner, or bonnethead sharks - although larger lemon, bull, and hammerhead sharks can be found inshore at certain times of the year.
Look for mangrove snapper in the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida.