
Begin with a chord progression.A chord progression is the basis of any pop song.
Build a song structure.A hit song will always come in the form of a coherent song structure.
Practice your instrument daily.
Record a demo.After you have a basic demo prepared, you can revisit it and listen for yourself.
Verse yourself in music theory.Although being educated in music theory isn't necessary for a songwriter by any means, it may help set you on the right track.
Keep an ideas notebook.
Give your inspiration a rest.You may find your creativity reinvigorated if you give yourself a day or so to rest away from your work.
Offer a sincere emotional insight.Any songwriter worth his salt will tell you that the best song material is written from the heart.
Tell a story with your lyrics.Some of the best songs tell a story.
Avoid cliche and forced rhymes.An easy beginning mistake in writing lyrics is to place the importance of the rhyme above anything else.
Employ repetition in your lyrics.Repetition allows a listener to latch onto something familiar in a song before the first listen is over.
Match your lyrics to the music.
Come up with a fitting title.
Acknowledge the expectations of your genre.Even if you're not trying yourself to a genre in the long run, it is probable that your song demos will adhere to a given style.
Develop a portfolio of demos.recording a single demo isn't enough.
Share your work with friends.
Post your songs online.
Connect with the music industry.Professional songwriters may find it useful to live in one of the central hubs for the music industry, including Los Angeles, New York and London.
Stay focused and persistent.Persistence is the key.
Decide on the kind of songwriter you want to be.Songwriters come in all shapes and sizes.
Broaden your musical horizons.The most successful songwriters listen to a wide variety of musical styles.
Analyze a variety of hit songs.As always, it's a good idea to look at hits from a variety of styles and eras.
Attend a live concert.If you're thirsting for inspiration, there are few places as well-suited to get the creative fires stoked as a live concert.
Stay busy.Inspiration doesn't come to those who idle.