
Plan your work.
Place your table over the drop cloth.
With a damp cloth, wipe off all the sawdust.

,
Now is the time to inspect the surface for potential problems.
Cut the Masonite to fit your table.
Using the same thinset mortar that you will use for your tile, cover the table top.
Grab your design and lay your pattern out on the floor.
You are now into the most critical portion of the project - laying out, cutting and setting the tile.
Some tilers prefer to put their thinset mortar on the surface they are tiling and place the tiles into the mortar.
An alternative approach is called "buttering" the tile.
Place your "buttered" tile on the Masonite at the center where your two lines intersect.
To help to keep your tile spacing even, place three of the tile spacers at the same time you set your first tile.
At this point, things will really start to roll.
If your design calls for a grout joint all the way around the edge of the table, this is the time to attach the edge molding.
On a project like this, use a simple batten.
Attaching the edge molding requires some thought on how you want it to look.
Measure the short end of your table and add the thickness of your molding.
Using a straight edge, check to be sure the molding is level all along the edge of the table.
You will repeat this process on the long side of the table next.
Finish this phase by putting masking tape along the top edge of your molding.
Okay, you are ready to grout.
Your grout will either be sanded or not, depending upon the width of your grout joint and the type of tile you are using.
Mix the grout to a fairly stiff consistency, something like a batter.
Next, dampen your sponge and wipe off as much excess grout as possible.
Now you need to exercise a little patience and let the grout set up somewhat.
Rinse your sponge often.
Let it set for a few hours then finish the wipe down process.
Almost there!,
Apply as many coats as recommended, more for an outdoor table.
The last step is to finish your edge molding.
Check your corners where the molding butted together.
If you used the nail versus adhesive attachment method, fill the nail holes with wood filler.
One thing to consider here is the use of a stain and top coat combined.
Congratulations!,
Just remember, nothing bounces on tile like it might on a wood table so glasses will almost always break - a small price to pay for a fine tile table.

