
Consider the average summer temperatures and level of humidity in your area.
Purchase strawberry plants from your local nursery or garden center.
Only purchase certified, disease-resistant cultivars.
Grow early strawberries in stacking containers, window boxes, hanging containers or a strawberry pot.
Use potting soil that contains 2 parts topsoil, 1 part peat moss and 1 part perlite or vermiculite.
Place the strawberry plants in a spot that will get five to six hours of direct sunlight each day.
Give the strawberry plants water-soluble houseplant fertilizer once a month.
Use organically rich sandy loam soil.
Prepare the strawberry beds the season before you plant the bushes.
Do not plant the strawberries in a garden where eggplants, peppers, potatoes, raspberries, strawberries or tomatoes grew within the past year or two.
Improve the soil by adding a 3- to 6-inch depth of organic matter.
Test the soil pH and fertility levels.
Sprinkle lime over the soil to raise the pH or sulfur to lower the pH.
Spread granular fertilizer over the beds two weeks before planting the strawberries.
Plant the strawberry plants so that the crown or base of the plant is level with the surrounding soil.
Water the strawberries once or twice each week, depending on how quickly the soil dries.
Use a soaker hose when you water to keep the leaves as dry as possible.
Hand pull any weeds as they appear or break them off with a hoe.
Four to six weeks after planting, give the strawberry plants more fertilizer.
Cover the strawberry plants with bird netting as soon as they begin to form berries.
Harvest the berries in the morning every other day.
Remove any unhealthy strawberry plants with weed-infested beds.
Renovate and renew healthy strawberry plants each year after you harvest them.
Sprinkle two pounds of 10-10-10 fertilizer over the strawberry bed.
Don’t plant strawberries in low areas where the soil remains wet.
Buy only certified, disease-free plants to avoid diseases.
Remove any plants infected with leaf diseases.
Create a home remedy for disease control.
Remove dying leaves between late fall and winter to prevent botrytis fruit rot.
If angular leaf spot appears in your strawberry bed, start a new bed the following spring.
Spray the strawberry plants with a garden hose to crush aphids and knock them off the plants.
Treat a mite infestation with the vegetable oil/baby shampoo solution.
Remove any rolled leaves on the plants to prevent leaf rollers.
Grow early strawberries in containers to deter the growth of nematodes.
Place tuna cans in the beds to drown any weevils.
Dust the soil around the strawberry plants with diatomaceous earth, commonly available at garden centers, to kill weevils.
Pick the slugs off the strawberry plants in the morning or evening and drop them into a bucket of soapy water to drown them.