
Question the usual politicians in the primaries who hide more and more taxes that you must pay, indirectly (called hidden taxes).

,
Identify your hidden taxes: you pay dozens of them.
Examine the taxes that are costs in all products.
Consider Taxes As Usual.
Consider voting against those who claim to be against inflation and high taxes -- but, who:


Pass more expenditures that require more taxes and borrowing;
Whose taxes may cause costs including inflation that can contribute to your job opportunities or job losses to countries with lower standards and/or lower costs;
Can abolish redundant and excessive bureaucracies but don't;
Can be influenced by lobbyists, whose excessive gifts and advice they could outlaw;
Who do not well regulate the regulators, to whom they give their powers and from whom they could take the powers.

,
Consider working against those who together (see the 545 to consider blaming below) create all national policy, laws, taxes and the spending (and possible deficit) problems.
Blame taxes and allocations of funds for spending on the U.S. House of Representatives on their Constitutional authority to pass/or not any spending (called appropriations)United States House of Representatives:


It's their tax code -- Congress and their committees can handle that to lower or raise taxes.
Decide whom to blame among: 100 senators, 435 congressmen, plus The President, and 9 Supreme Court justices which equals the 545 human beings out of the 300 million that are directly, legally, morally, and individually responsible for the domestic problems that plague this country.
Decide which of these 545 people support:


More taxes on anyone and do nothing about the thousands of pages of tax codes.
Analyze the United States Constitution regarding their duties.
This nation of 300 million can replace 536 of the 545 people (the 9 Supreme Court Justices are appointed for life.).
Remind your politicians of their oaths of office.

,
Let them know that the people are watching and following their efforts and outcomes -- so that the days of easy, unnoticed pork and earmarks are over.

,
Do not accept their blaming forces called: "the economy," "inflation," "deflation," "global institutions," or "politics".
Examine your representatives to see if they are voting for expenditures that overburden the economy with taxes required by their spending.
Help the other voters in their jurisdictions to have the information to manage -- fire them and hire their own "employees" among those 545 employees.
Consider starting now!