
The rifle must, in all respects, fit the needs of the marksman.
For target practice (AKA "plinking") Always use a .308.
For competitive target shooting, match-grade ammunition is preferred.
For small varmint shooting (smaller than coyote – such as squirrels, rabbits, birds, etc), favor the .22lr.
For large varmint shooting (sizes such as coyotes or even small boar) a .223 round is likely the smallest round you would want to use.
For wild game (boar, deer, etc) a 6mm to a .30 caliber round will be sufficient to put a good portion of traditional game down quickly(deer, elk, bear, moose and almost anything else).
Though we will be dealing more with targets and animals, if a situation arises which a human must be shot, a .223 round to a vital area is plenty, but a .308 or other .30 caliber round is arguably a better bullet as it will cause more damage if vitals are missed and will impact a human wearing heavy clothing more than the much lighter .223 round.

,
Weight of the bullet is something to consider, but in most situations it matters less than bullet design.
Assume ALL firearms are loaded and ready to fire until you personally see that there is no ammo in the chamber.
Be aware of your surroundings, specifically in the direction you are shooting.
Point your rifle ONLY at something that you intend to shoot.
Keep your finger off the trigger and the safety enabled until you intend to pull the trigger.

,
Ensure that your firearms and ammo are secure from anyone when stored in your home.

,
Be sure you have read and understand How to Handle a Firearm Safely.
Pick the right location (keeping safety in mind).
Bench rest: This is the most accurate stance.
Prone: By far, this is the most accurate field position for "sniping".
Crouching/Kneeling: This stance is considerably less accurate than a prone position.
Standing: This is not a recommended stance, as it is very inaccurate compared to either of the other stances.
Choose your rifle position.
The forearm under the stock (if prone) or under the front of the gun where there is obviously a grip.
Become aware of your breathing.
Consider trigger pull.
Scopes assist riflemen by allowing them to see more precisely at further distances.