
Start taking risks!,
Define what your goals are by writing them down.
Practice good posture at all times (sitting, standing, walking), especially when you're walking alone.

,
Stay well groomed.
Shop for clothes, or make them, to create your own unique style.
Don't ever care what people think about you, as long as you know what you are doing is right and it's not hurting anyone.
Personalize your look.
Make sure to keep your room clean.
Remember, make sure you always have pads/tampons in your bag at all times and change pads regularly to prevent accidents.

,
Study, do all your schoolwork, and do your very best every time.
Speak properly, clearly and audibly, and don't swear a storm.
Develop your talents.
Join some clubs if you're a good socialite or want to get over your shyness.
Participate in your hobbies.
Let go of friends who do not respect you or like you for you.
Make friends with the people you like, not the ones you think you should be friends with.

,
Understand that it is not healthy to let your peers or students walk all over you, this is big problem if you're shy or the type of person who really likes to please people.
Stay nice to everyone you come across, and smile at people when you pass them while walking.
Socialize and make friends with your parents, and make conversation with adults, but remember to be polite.

,
Understand that it feels terrible to feel pressured into having a relationship or going and dating if you're not ready.
Remember to never feel pressured into doing drugs, getting drunk, or having sex.
Be yourself!,
Forget any slights and don't take insults to mind.
Learn that if someone comes up to you and says "You have a great figure" or "You have, like, perfect lips" thank them and smile.
Practice looking at yourself in the mirror and saying, "I love you!",
Ask for Help If you're in a bad mood a lot or can't get along with your family, ask your parents, a teacher you trust, someone at a church or a school guidance counselor for help.
If someone is being mean to you, just say "don't be pathetic" and walk away.

