
Work on your self-confidence, as it's a well-known fact that scene queens are always confident.
Know that you're pretty and learn to love and embrace your flaws.
Don't get overconfident.
Do not manipulate people for being different to you.
Get a source of income.
Start with your inner health and beauty.
Make sure your hygiene is top notch.
Use good-smelling lotion and sprays.
Make sure your face is clean and moisturized.
Wear a lot of makeup.
Eyeliner, eyeshadow, blush, foundation, and lipstick are musts.
Use makeup as your signature.
Its good to make angle wings (cat-eyes) with your makeup and bright eyeshadow.

,
Get a scene haircut.
Go wild!,
Cut your hair yourself but this could end up a mess and this is not very scene queen.
Fix your damaged hair.
Buy the right clothes.
Don't restrict yourself to brand names; try shopping at thrift stores, as well.
Try to be as different as you can.
Shop at stores nobody has ever heard of and wear things nobody else is wearing.
Get the accessories.
Get a MySpace page.
Try to make accounts on other popular social networking sites.
Think of a good scene Myspace name.
Don't take other names.
Join sites such as Myspace, Facebook, Instagram.
Find a way to become e-famous.
Develop your own unique style and start a trend.
Once you've struck on your brilliant idea and performed it to your look.
Be nice to everyone even if they hate you and/or if you hate them.
Learn to use scene lingo, but don't overdo it.
Make up one of your own words as this will be very scene and different.
Get a professional to take pictures of you, as nobody wants to see a typical "scene angle" picture of just "another scene girl".
If you're useless at this as well then ask your parents if you can have a modeling party for you and your friends for your next birthday.
Start a new trend.
Use your creativity and originality to start your own new trend, something that nobody or very few people have ever done before.
Write masses about your new trend on Myspace and post many videos on YouTube showing how to do it and post as many tags on as you can think of.
Make sure you have a camera.
Be very social.
Get out as much as you can.
Meet new people and take pics of everywhere you go to blog and put pics on Myspace.
Hang out with friends.
Get a boyfriend.
Get a scene King.