
Question as a creationist and contrast past events being compiled from rock formations, fossils and inconclusive "Evolutionary Theory" versus intelligent design in your understanding of creation by God.
Examine—natural events in thousands of interdependent systems based "on" chance—or what?,
Consider some things that may be characteristics of provable, scientific information: Man-made or Natural, Impersonal, Observed or Tested-observationally and Non-dogmatic.
Evolution has not been fully tested observationally by proved, repeated biological events; it is certainly a world view of some.
Believe: If you believe in evolution (not a creator), then (a) something always has existed -- or (b) something apparently came from nothing, and:

Then order came from disorder;
Apparently life came from non-life (and non-life has no genetics or cell division);
Variation is from identical factors;
Intelligence came from no nerve system at all;
Morality from immorality, or from no values concept at all.

,
Conjecture about presuppositions of how can a minute nervous system (as a mosquito) be so all encompassing: was it comprehensive by chance, mere mistakes, accidental mutations, life force itself from and by that source: what source, was it nothing but a ball of hydrogen or undifferentiated mass of energy; what?

,
Look at whether mosquitoes and other tiny creature have millions or billions of interdependent cells that enable interdependent systems so proactive for life but would be formed with exquisite dependencies without any awareness or any plan or any formal sort of logic, really?

,Observe the unobservant processes of evolution that could not realize their own existence, but then are said to have originated life and continued, adding/subtracting by failures (mutations) of the previous genetic system, surviving to breed a new thing, multiplying and thereby passing on, logically, mostly defects of varying degree, combining in such agglomeration that death becomes almost a certainty before ever comes a chance to breed!,
Consider a non-directed process... need it be so?,
Ask yourself how some evolutionists can seriously propose that it was by multiple random failures and chaos that a lifeless, helical chain of chemicals strewn in space with neither semipermeable membrane nor cytoplasm, and, indeed, no cellular environment originated.
Consider "natural selection" which is said to be essential for life and evolution, being due to "pressure" (coincidental stuff).
Evolutionists may determine ponderous questions or accept them as concluded within definitions upon their impersonal, unmotivated theory -- value??,
Examine a limb or wing is presupposed to have started out as a tiny protruding bone or exoskeleton, which then grew out longer in nature.
Realize that such "construction" is much the same case for any type of joint, such as for paws, hands, fingers, articulated joints, and the opposing thumb in more "advanced" creatures ("are we mice/or are we man?").
Research the few fossils that can claim to be a fossil of an "in-between" creature.
Consider that even if there were intermediate fossils, that could allow for thousands of these life forms in fossils to be evolving at various stages for evolution.