
to fit with a handsaw.
Determine the width you are able to place and screed off in a single pass.
Set a "floating form" or a "pipe screed" along the length of the pour.
Leave a "lane" in your slab area to back the concrete truck so that the discharge chute will be able to swing sufficiently to place the concrete near the screed board as you work down the form.

,
Place 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) plywood or 2x12 lumber along the path spaced for the concrete truck wheels to travel on if the subgrade is not packed sufficiently to support this heavy load without creating ruts, or damaging reinforcing bars or wire.

,
Lay out any control joints along the outside forms and the intermediate floating forms.
Install any reinforcing and/or moisture barrier.

,
Figure the concrete.
Get your help together.
Check the weather forecast for the day you plan your concrete placement.
Gather up the necessary tools.
Order your concrete.
Back your concrete truck down the path you have prepared, or down the outside of the forms if the width allows.
Check the "slump" of your concrete.
Begin placing your slab at the farthest, or back side.
Pull the screed.
Rake the "high" concrete down in front of the screed board.
Cut any joints using the screed board as a straight edge as you work past them.
Place and screed the concrete to the end of your slab.
Back the truck back down the slab on the next section of your placement.
Begin placing concrete again at the "far" end of the pour.
Bull float the concrete before it begins to set.
Work the edges of your slab with an edger, and clean up the joints and any "cat faces" (rough spots) with your magnesium float by working off of knee boards when the concrete will support your weight.

,
Finish the slab by either dragging a wide, soft bristled push broom across it, or trowel with the power trowel.

,
Cure the concrete with plastic sheeting if the temperature range and humidity require it.
Clean up your tools, find a recliner, and hope the Tylenol will help you out of bed the next day.