
Begin with undergraduate studies.Prior to going to medical school, most places in the world require you to have a completed undergraduate degree.
Go to medical school.Once you have completed the required pre-requisite courses and undergraduate studies, apply to the medical schools that interest you.
Decide on a medical specialty.Once you complete medical school, you will need to decide whether you want to be a general practitioner (a family doctor), or to continue your studies to become a medical specialist (such as a psychiatrist, and emergency physician, an internal medicine doctor, or a surgeon, among other specialities).
Complete your medical internship and residency.When you have selected your desired field of study, you will need to apply for an internship and/or a residency.
Consider the type of practice you want to open.
Choose a location for your office.It is important to consider factors such as commute time, as well as the patient population that a specific area targets.
Obtain any permits or licenses that you would need to have your own medical practice.Check with your local Department of Health for any necessary paperwork.
Purchase medical equipment, computers and other supplies.You will need funds to pay for other startup costs such as any medical equipment.
Get approved for insurance.You will need insurance to protect yourself from anything that may happen to your patients.
Acquire patients.If you have steady patients from a previous office, you may be able to bring them over.
Hire other employees.
Decide whether or not you would like to partner with other physicians.If you do want to partner, you will need a lawyer's help in establishing a comprehensive practice agreement.
Establish clear job outlines and expectations for your employees.This will increase the chances of success with your co-workers and also decrease hidden costs associated with employee turnover.
Understand the billing process.See if there is any physician support available in your area for billing advice and and support - there are most often local resources to help physicians with this.
Establish a process for informing patients of costs of services.It is important to become aware of what is and is not covered for patients under a pre-paid healthcare plan, and how to go about invoicing patients for services that are not covered (or invoicing third parties in cases where that applies).
Speak to an accountant regarding taxes.You will want to know how much money to set aside, when tax payments are due (for example, you may pay taxes quarterly), and the differences in tax filing for a business owner as opposed to an employee of a company.
Consult with a financial advisor to put a long-term plan into place.
Ensure that you understand patient confidentiality requirements.Inform yourself about the Health Information Act, or other privacy protection regulations that apply in your area.
Have your staff sign privacy and confidentiality documents.
Use electronic medical records (EMR).Although medical offices used to be run with paper files, the new way of doing things is via computer-based EMR.