
Determine which type of record(s) you want to access.
Examine the various parts of a vaccination record.You may or may not have a complete vaccination record stored in one place.
Look through the contents of your dental record.Your dental record will contain progress notes surrounding any oral health issues you have had, and the treatment, follow-up, and prognosis (outlook) for those conditions.
Sift through your medical record to find the most relevant and helpful information.
Look up the medical terms.
Focus on reading the conclusions rather than the whole report.
Ask your doctor for clarification.If you are having trouble deciphering your medical records, another strategy is to bring the documentation that is confusing you into your next doctor's appointment and to ask him for clarification.
Understand the importance of CPT codes for billing and insurance claims.If you are seeking to obtain your medical records for the purposes of insurance claims and billing (to determine what fraction of healthcare costs you are responsible for, as opposed to the portion that will be paid by your insurance company), the key thing to learn about and to be aware of is CPT codes.
Stay informed so that you can make the best treatment decisions.Many people find it overwhelming to keep on top of their medical records, and they may feel more confusion than anything; however, investing the time and effort into understanding your medical records, and asking your doctor for clarification when needed, can make a huge difference in terms of your ability to effectively make decisions regarding your treatment moving forwards.
Maximize the efficiency of care you receive from other physicians.Another benefit of taking the time to understand your medical records is that, should you find yourself under the care of another physician (who is not as familiar with your case as your regular physician is), you can help to fill him or her in, which in turn will maximize the quality of care you receive.
Become fully aware of the insurance benefits and coverage you can receive.Another benefit of putting in the effort to go through and decipher your medical records is that it increases your awareness of what is going on with your health, so that you can in turn find out (and maximize) the amount of coverage you may receive for the medical expenses you incur.
Correct any medical errors you find in your record.An additional benefit of reviewing your medical records, and taking the time and effort to thoroughly understand and verify them, is that if you find an error you can take it upon yourself to request that this be corrected.