
Determine what your goal is.
Find a gym


As a bodybuilding beginner you have to find a gym around your neighborhood and it will be much better if you can go to it by foot because it will help you to defeat all excuses about not going, and the Gym atmosphere is a very important key for your success because it helps you to concentrate more which means better results for you .
Find a training partner


Bodybuilding sport have a lot of challenges not every bodybuilding beginner can deal with it , in fact 90% of the bodybuilding beginner didn't achieve their goals whatever it is lose fat , build muscle , gain weight, become a fitness model, etc because they didn't have the amount of support and motivation all bodybuilding beginners really need.
As a bodybuilding beginner you have to look for help.
One of the most important steps you have to take as a bodybuilding beginner is knowledge.
Set high hopes.
First week pain


Well , everyone of us have a daily activities his body used to do it continuously and when he add a new activity like bodybuilding sport, his body will suffer for a while from this new activity and you will feel some pain in your body, however it will quickly disappeared it will take almost one week only 3 training session, my advice is just be patient because all bodybuilding beginner pass this pain in one week only.

,
Food challenge


Every bodybuilding beginner he or she have to change the way they eat , as we said before nutrition is a very important factor in any sport .
Facing injury challenge


Most bodybuilding beginner face this challenge.
Don't try any diet medicine to get fast results, ask your doctor first, because this is the most common fault almost all beginner female bodybuilders make and it may cause some injury to your body.

,
Keep Energy High.
Track Your Progress.
Purchase Necessary Tools - it will give you a good support to reach your target .
As a bodybuilding beginner, female or male you have to keep in mind these three rules

Train hard






Eat well






Sleep well

