
Turn the phone off, remove the battery cover, battery, and SIM card.
,
Remove 6 Phillips screws from the back of the phone, two of which are under little rubber caps, which you can pry up with your flathead screwdriver.

,Remove the two silver side buttons.
Disconnect the number pad connector from the main circuit board (it pops off by pulling gently up).

,
Slide the number pad out from under the main circuit board (gently!,
]Disconnect the main wiring harness (marked in red) from the main circuit board (marked in blue, but the connector is on the opposite side of the board as it sits in the picture).
Pop the rubber keypad face (the thing with the actual numbers on it) out of the lower housing, and remove the white Samsung sticker and the skinny black sticker in the battery compartment.
See the two metal tabs marked in red above?,
Remove the six Phillips screws from the back of the upper half of the phone.

,
The phone should be in three pieces now, the upper housing still holding the screen, the middle part with the spring-loaded section, and the bottom housing.
Flip the upper housing over, peel off the green piece of tape, and disconnect the main wiring harness from the back of the screen.
Disconnect the upper keypad wiring harness from the back of the screen in the same manner.
Gently pry the screen up, starting at the bottom, with a flathead screwdriver.
Peel the protective plastic off of your new screen.
Reattach the speaker and camera wiring.Pop the upper keypad face into the housing (again, the holes line up, and it's pretty obvious where it goes), reattach the upper keypad circuit board harness, and press the circuit board in behind the keypad face.Reattach the main wiring harness, and replace the green tape.
Reinstall the two siderails onto the upper housing.
Place the spring-loaded section of phone onto the upper housing with the screen, making sure you don't smash the main wiring harness.
Place the lower housing onto the upper housing.Press the number pad face into the housing.
Reconnect the main wiring harness (red) to the main circuit board (blue) by pressing gently down, it should snap on.
Slide the number pad circuit board under the main circuit board...

,
Reattach it's connector, by pressing down gently.
Replace the side buttons (the tabs go down) and place the back cover of the phone onto the housing.
Put your SIM card back in, replace the battery, and put the battery cover on.
Hopefully everything works well.