
Ask friends for their IM names.
Open your phone's contact list.
Open a contact's settings.
Add your contact's IM name(s).
Open your phone's app store.
Activate your app store's search function.
Type "WhatsApp" into the search bar to find WhatsApp.
Type "Skype" into the search bar to find Skype.
Type "Facebook Messenger" into the search bar to find Facebook Messenger.
Type "Snapchat" into the search bar to find Snapchat.
Tap the "GET" button next to your chosen app.
Tap the "WhatsApp" app to open WhatsApp.
Allow WhatsApp to access your contacts when prompted.
Tap "Agree & Continue" on the following screen.
Enter your phone number for verification purposes.
Enter your code in the field provided.
Enter your name and a photo.
Tap the "Chats" tab at the bottom of the screen.
Tap the "New Message" icon in the top right corner of your screen.
Tap on a contact's name.
Type your message in the field at the bottom of your screen.
Tap "Send" to send your instant message.
Tap the "Skype" app to open Skype.
Allow Skype to access your contacts when prompted.
Tap "Create Account" at the bottom of your screen.
Tap "I agree" to the Terms and Conditions.
Enter your preferred account information.
Enter your phone number.
Enter your PIN in the field provided.
Tap the "Contacts" tab at the bottom of your screen.
Tap the person icon in the top right corner of your screen.
Type the number or username of a contact.
Type your message in the field at the bottom of your screen.
Tap the blue arrow to send your instant message.
Tap the "Facebook Messenger" app to open Facebook Messenger.
Allow Facebook Messenger to access your contacts when prompted.
Enter your Facebook email address and password.
Tap the "People" tab at the bottom of your screen.
Tap a contact's name.
Type your message in the field at the bottom of your screen.
Tap "Send" to send your instant message.
Tap the "Snapchat" app to open Snapchat.
Allow Snapchat to access your contacts when prompted.
Tap "Sign Up", then enter your account information.
Verify your identity.
Swipe down on Snapchat's main page.
Tap "Add Friends".
Tap "Add from Address Book".
Tap the backward arrows in the top left corner.
Swipe right on your main page.
Swipe right on a contact's name.
Type your message into the field at the bottom of the screen.
Tap the "Send" button to send your chat.