
Examine for signs of a massive pulmonary embolism.A massive pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lungs) may be a cause of obstructive shock.
Evaluate for a possible tension pneumothorax.A tension pneumothorax is another possible cause of obstructive shock.
Watch for symptoms of a cardiac tamponade.A cardiac tamponade is when blood pools around the heart, causing a buildup of pressure and a subsequent inability for the heart to effectively pump blood around the body.
Look for "constrictive pericarditis" as a possible cause of obstructive shock.Constrictive pericarditis occurs when the sac around the heart (called the pericardium) becomes inflamed and tightens with scar tissue over time.
Evaluate for aortic stenosis as a possible cause of obstructive shock.Aortic stenosis is when the valve that allows blood to exit the heart becomes tightened, blocked, or otherwise compressed, leading to a reduced amount of blood that can effectively leave the heart with each heartbeat.When aortic stenosis becomes very severe, it can lead to obstructive shock by significantly reducing the amount of blood that can exit the heart, and thus reducing blood flow to the body's vital organs.
Remove the clot from a massive PE (pulmonary embolism).If a pulmonary embolism is confirmed as the cause of obstructive shock, it is key to have this treated as soon as possible.
Use needle decompression and a chest tube to treat a tension pneumothorax.If a tension pneumothorax is responsible for the onset of obstructive shock, insert a needle in the affected area for decompression.
Opt for pericardiocentesis to treat a cardiac tamponade.
Treat the underlying cause of constrictive pericarditis as needed.If constrictive pericarditis (or a related condition) is responsible for obstructive shock, it is key to determine what is causing compression and tightening of the heart sac (called the "pericardium").
Treat severe aortic stenosis if this is the underlying cause of shock.An intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) can be used to help open the aortic valve.
Improve the person's blood pressure.One of the cardinal problems in any type of shock (including obstructive shock) is a dangerously low blood pressure.
Increase the person's blood volume.In addition to improving heart contractility and blood vessel tone through medications, doctors will also consider other ways to increase a person's blood volume when they are in shock, and thus to raise the blood pressure.
Proceed with CPR until the person is resuscitated.If the shock is severe enough for a person to have become unconscious and pulseless, follow CPR and advanced life saving protocols to resuscitate them, while simultaneously removing or alleviating the cause of the obstruction (in obstructive shock).