
Take the time to plan for your boat move.
Choose a Professional Boat Transport Company experienced in moving your type boat.
Instruct drivers not to move the load in any circumstance they regard as unsafe.
See that the dispatcher match the right boat trailer and driver for the proper transport of your boat.
Communicate with your Boat Transportation Company.
Properly Measure Your Boat for Transport.
Include bow pulpits, swim platforms, outboard motor brackets, outboard motors themselves (the length of the motors or out drives in the raised position) for overall length.
Check your overall height.
Ship electronics such as radios, Loran Systems, etc.
Check overall Beam/width.
Choose the right marina for your boat transport.
Understand how payment is to be made for both the boat transport service and the marina loading/offloading or providing preparation service to your boat is going to work.
Remove and properly store the following items.
Items to be removed inside your boat: All items in the interior cabin should be carefully inspected to make sure they are battened down securely, including hatches.
Items to be removed outside your boat: All electronics, radar, radar arches, hailers, horns, antennas, propellers, flag masts, lights, anchor lights, windshields, etc. must be removed, packed securely and securely stored below.
Hatches should be tightly secured and sealed with tape to prevent damage from wind-driven water.
Remove all canvas covers.
Check for Zebra Mussels.
Decide whether to shrink-wrap your boat or not.
Properly store your dinghy.
Additional instructions for transporting your wood boat.
Additional Instructions for Powerboat Transporting.
Additional Instructions for Sailboat Transporting.
Additional Instructions for International Boat Transporting.
Check that your cradle is suitable for boat transport overland or international shipping.
Inspect your trailer for boat transport road worthiness.
Decide if you want a marine survey done prior to transporting your boat.
A successful boat transport company and their drivers must have combined experience working with DOT, permit agencies, marinas, boat yards, and ports offers better savings to you, by avoiding costly delays.
Experienced, dedicated drivers have the knowledge and driving skills to transport your boat safely and professionally.