
Start off by upgrading your resources in your base.
Upgrade your Town Hall to at least level 4.
Get a Warehouse.
Upgrade your Mana Mills and Gold Mines to at least level 4.
Get a watchtower.
Consider buying some defense walls.
Buy any other buildings that are needed in your base from the shop.

,
Put your Town Hall in the middle of your base.
If you have enough walls, surround your gold and mana vaults, as well as the mana mills and gold mines.
Buy another army camp.
Put your other buildings (arena, training center, warehouse, etc.),
Hire a few attack troops.
Hire a hero if needed.
Level up your attack troops.
Level up your heroes.
Choose a base to attack.
Drop your treants next to the watchtowers.
Send your pyromancers and hunters once the defenses are destroyed.
Guardians can destroy all the other buildings.
Send a hero in first if there are any defense troops.
Have enough blue crystal mines.
Upgrade your crystal mines so they produce more crystals.
Choose your heroes and go into battle to earn red crystals.
Tap the place you want to battle.
Keep an eye out for any yellow question marks on a random square.
Continue leveling up your heroes by studying inscriptions for your heroes.
Fight in boss battles.
Take some attack troops and heroes with you.
Take more treants with you.
Drop your heroes to kill enemy heroes and troops.
Drop the rest of your troops anywhere to destroy the buildings.
Try to finish the dungeon attack quickly in order to get hero shards.

,
Go through the portals that show along the top left side of trees of the base.
Make sure you have the right amount of Might to enter.
Make sure you have enough heroes.
Have higher leveled up heroes in order to do Wretched Gorge.
In expeditions are like raids, but you will be able to use only heroes.
Choose your heroes.
Find a good base to attack.
Drop your heroes near enemy heroes and defense buildings.
Rearrange your base every now and then.
Continue upgrading your buildings.
Upgrade your heroes.
Battle more often!,
Continue to maintain your base and handle other attacks that you get when you are offline.

