
Condition any polymer clay until it's smooth and pliable.
Roll the clay into a smooth ball between palms after conditioning.
Put a release on the clay and/or the item to be molded if needed.
Push the item being used to create the mold into a ball or a slab of raw clay.
Gently remove the item from the clay.
Place the raw clay mold on a metal baking tray or on another oven-safe carrier.
Bake the clay in a preheated oven.
Set a timer for 20 to 45 minutes depending on the thickness of the mold and the brand/line of clay used.
Remove the hardened mold from the oven on its carrier and allow it to cool.
Make as many molds as you want once you've gotten the hang of it.

,
Rigid or silicone molds can also be purchased already made.
If you want, make casts from your molds with scrap clay then number the matching molds ("innies") and casts ("outies") on their back sides to keep matching molds and casts straight.
Roll the clay into a smooth ball as above.
Remove the cast from the mold.
If you want, highlight or antique the casts.
Use the casts in many ways (including casts from texture molds).
If desired, the clay cast can be cut into another shape before baking.
Follow the instructions for making regular molds as in the above method, but start with a flat sheet of clay for most texture molds.
It will be best to place a sheet of paper or deli wrap, etc, under the clay sheet before continuing so the clay won't stick to the work surface later.
Use a release, then press anything shallow but dimensional and at least somewhat firm into the clay sheet.
Carefully separate the clay and texture material.
Use part or all of the raw textured sheet in some way for a final piece and bake later.To create a reverse mold, first make and bake a mold or a texture sheet.Press new raw clay into or onto that mold to create its opposite.
Separate the hardened clay from the raw clay, and bake the new clay.
Cut two thick slabs of clay.Roll over one wide side of each slab with a roller or jar to make it very flat.
Dust the rolled-over side of one slab well with cornstarch or baby powder. ,
Press the item down into that side of the slab until it is about halfway into the clay.
Remove the item from the first slab, and bake it.
Heavily dust one side of the second slab (especially since polymer clay will bond to other polymer clay when heated if it's bare), then carefully press it down onto the first slab and snug all around the item as much as possible.Cool, then separate the halves of the final mold and remove the item.
To use the two-part mold later, experimentation may be necessary to find the right amount of raw clay for the mold, i.e. just enough to fill, but not enough to overfill, and the best shape of clay to use.Do everything as above but instead of using two slabs, wrap a wad of clay (flat or any shape that works) halfway around the item, leaving the upper edges of the wad uneven or adding registration marks.
Use a second wad of clay as above rather than a second slab.