
Have you ever heard the expression "don't let life happen to you, make the life you want to live happen because of you"?,
Take some time with pen and paper (or use a blog site like Blogger or Tumblr) to outline and then detail why you're suddenly (if so sudden or not) lonely.
Next, do the same sort of exercise in thinking about and writing out the how of your loneliness.
Make it your mission to interact with people as often as possible (i.e.
Search around your area for ways to run into people such as parks and libraries.
If you find that your current social pickings are slim or dated (i.e.
Cleaning and organizing your home are a great way to pass the time and focus on improving your surroundings.
If you own a cell phone, iTouch or other web enabled device, take the time to learn all that you can about the device and any social networking applications or features it does or can have.
If you have an MP3 player (iPod, Zune for examples) look into the peer to peer capabilities these devices have or may provide access to (for example: iPod Touch provides access to Facebook and other social networks as well as some iPhone apps and Zune has a music and video community with the WiFi features that come with the device out of box but you have to sign up via their website first) new people online and socialize/share music.

,
If you are trying to get someone to talk to you, don't act overly lonely or talk on a cell phone/use your iPod to distract.
Do not settle for bad friends!,
Getting a new pet that can provide unconditional love during difficult times can really help to combat loneliness.
Getting a new pet that can provide unconditional love during difficult times can really help to combat loneliness.
Be sure, however, if you are going to do this you seriously think about it for the sake of the animal and do not do it on an impulse.

,
Rescuing and animal from a shelter can offer a greater bond and sense of self-worth since without you the animal may have gotten put to sleep.

