
Avoid making your intelligence the core of your identity.
Stay grounded in the actual world.
Remember that a high intelligence doesn’t mean you will have a greater degree of success.Parents and teachers will often celebrate intellectually gifted students and treat them differently.
Stay true to your strengths and passions.
Think through problems in the third-person.
Avoid dividing the world into “smart” and “not smart” people.Things are not as black-and-white as they might seem, and people who lack the same intellectual gifts that you do can still be smart in other ways.
Avoid making your boss too dependent on your work.It feels good to be excellent at your job.
Take care of your boss’s ego.Despite the large office and six-figure salary, your boss could still be insecure about having an employee who is obviously more intelligent.
Resist over-specializing in your current position.Learning can feel good, and mastering a specific skill-set can be just the challenge you need to make your work place bearable.
Share the load and let others do some of the work.Because intelligent people have always succeeded by doing the most work, they have trouble letting go of control in the work place.
Be willing to accept constructive feedback and criticism.
Accept that some jobs are not meant for gifted people.Try all you might, some jobs will be unbearable for highly intelligent people.
Seek out a group of peers who challenge you.Make sure your group does not consist only of traditionally intelligent people; generate a broad, diverse group of peers that includes individuals who may be intelligent or strong in ways you are not.
Don’t be a know-it-all.Let’s face it, coming across as an arrogant, annoying know-it-all is really the central problem of having a high intelligence.Exhibiting an air of showy snobbery, being too intellectually competitive, or criticizing any- and everything won’t help you shed that know-it-all image.
Never use intelligence as an excuse for a lack of social skills.It can be tempting to assume that being intelligent gives you a pass on social niceties and emotional maturity, but that is not the case.
Pursue sincere, face-to-face interactions with others as often as possible.Being gifted can be alienating, but you can overcome social awkwardness by seeking out meaningful, personal interactions with other people, large or small.
Avoid over thinking your social interactions.Some intellectually gifted people will spend too much time thinking over past social interactions, trying to uncover or analyze the “meaning” of what happened.
Set goals for your social interactions.If you do find yourself missing out on opportunities because of a real or perceived level of socially awkward behavior, start small and work up.
Cash in on the “Geek Chic” movement in your romantic life.All of sudden, it is sexy to be nerdy.