

Open a new Excel workbook and create 4 worksheets: Data, Lemniscate, Chart and Saves.
Set Preferences.
Activate the Lemniscate worksheet and enter the row 1 headings for both types of lemniscates:

Select row 1 and Format cells Font red, Underline Single, Alignment Horizontal Center.
Enter the formulas for each column of the slanted lemniscate, A:D and create a small chart.
Enter the formulas and create a small chart for the normal lemniscate of cell range F2:J2882;

Edit Go To cell range F2:F2882 and with F2 active, input w/o quotes the formula, "=H2*COS(I2*PI()/180*Adj)" and Edit Fill Down and Insert New Comment "Original formula =H2*COS(I2*PI()/180*Adj)".
On the Data worksheet, enter the Defined Variable names of row 1.
Enter the variables and formulas in row 2 and create the variable names.
Enter the Defined Variable Names of row 3.
Enter the variables and formulas in row 4 and create the variable names.
Enter the column headings of row 5.
Enter the formulas of the columns.
Activate the Lemniscate worksheet and Edit Go To cell range F1:J2882 and copy it and activate the Data worksheet and select cell I5 and paste it (unless you'd be pasting atop the Looker Table).
Do Lemniscate Height Adjustment.
Enter the Looker Table.
Enter the LemniscateLooker table.
Enter the LOOKER2 table.
Create the ThicknessLooker Table.
Create the Thick1Looker Table.

NOTE: As different numbers of Spheroids are entered in the Spheres entry box in cell H64 of the CHART worksheet, different relationships between the background ring of spheres and the foreground Lemniscate Curve will occur; one way to adjust these relationships is to make changes in the formula just entered, by more bracketing of smaller groups with tighter percentages, etc.
Select on the CHART worksheet cell F63 and enter PercentRing and Format Cells Alignment Horizontal Center for cell range F63:F65.
Create the Main Chart.Activate the Chart worksheet and click in the chart and with the Shift key depressed Copy Picture, then activate the Saves worksheet and with the shift key still depressed, so Paste Picture and save the workbook,,
You're done!
,
Make use of helper articles when proceeding through this tutorial:

See the article How to Create a Spirallic Spin Particle Path or Necklace Form or Spherical Border for a list of articles related to Excel, Geometric and/or Trigonometric Art, Charting/Diagramming and Algebraic Formulation.