
Make sure your iPhone's operating system is supported.
Disable your iPhone's passcode.
Disable Find My iPhone.
Update iTunes to the latest version.
Connect your iPhone to your computer.
Back up your iPhone's data.
Place your iPhone in Airplane mode.
Make sure your iPhone is jailbreak-compatible.
Go to the Yalu jailbreak webpage.
Click the "ipa (cydia impactor)" link.
Go to the Cydia Impactor download page.
Click the link that pertains to your computer's operating system.
Double-click the ZIP folder.
Double-click the "Impactor" application.
Click and drag the "yalu102_beta7" file onto the installer window.
Enter your Apple ID email address.Click OK.
Enter your Apple ID password.
Click OK. As long as your Apple ID credentials are correct, Yalu will begin installing onto your iPhone.
Open Yalu on your iPhone.
Wait for the pop-up stating your own apple ID is an untrusted developer.
Tap the go button in the middle of your screen.
Make sure your iPhone 7 is jailbreak-compatible.
Go to the Yalu jailbreak webpage.
Scroll down for a bit.
Go to the Cydia Impactor download page.
Click the link that pertains to your computer's operating system.
Double-click the ZIP folder.
Double-click the "Impactor" application.
Click and drag the "yalu+mach_portal" file onto the installer window.
Enter your Apple ID email address.Click OK.
Enter your Apple ID password.
Click OK. As long as your Apple ID credentials are correct, Yalu will begin installing onto your iPhone.
Open mach_portal on your iPhone.
You will now get a pop-up stating your own apple ID is an untrusted developer.
Once again, tap the mach_portal app.
Launch the Cydia application.
Tap Edit in the top right corner, and then tap Add in the top left corner.
Go to the search tab in your Cydia application.
Go to the Pangu jailbreak website.
Click Download & Help, then click Download.
Launch Pangu on your computer.
Click Start to begin the jailbreak.
Click Already backed up.
Wait for the initial part of the jailbreak to complete.
Unlock your iPhone and run the Pangu app when prompted.
Allow access to your photos on your iPhone.
Wait for the jailbreak to complete.
Launch Cydia.
Avoid updating your iPhone.
Ensure your iPhone is compatible with this jailbreak.
Download TaiG.
Open the TaiG program.
Uncheck the "3K Assistant" box.
Click Start in the TaiG window.
Launch Cydia on your iPhone once the jailbreak is complete.
Wait for Cydia to configure and reboot.
Avoid future updates.
Download Pangu.
Start the Pangu program.
Click the Jailbreak button.
Follow the prompts to change the date of your iPhone.
Launch the Pangu app on your iPhone when the jailbreak process stalls at about 50%.
Wait for the jailbreak process to complete.
Launch the Cydia app.
Download evasi0n7.
Start evasi0n7 on your computer.
Click the .Jailbreak button.
Follow any prompts in the evasi0n7 window.
Wait for the jailbreak process to complete.
Launch the Cydia app.
Launch Cydia again.