
Buy underpriced used books.
Bargain-hunt at yard and thrift sales.
Go to police auctions.
Refinish ratty furniture.
Rescue battered wood.
Flip houses or apartments.
Sign up with focus groups in your area.
Participate in medical studies.
Sell photos.
Design web images.
Make and sell crafts.
Become a mystery shopper.
Write product reviews.
Complete online surveys.
Start a website or blog.
Start a small business.
Watch and/or walk your neighbors’ pets.
Landscape.
Run errands for the elderly.
Find odd jobs online.
GigWalk: This iPhone app allows you to team up with companies posting gigs and get small jobs done for cash.
WeReward: This iPhone and Android app allows you to complete small tasks (ex.
CheckPoints: This iPhone and Android app allows you to go to stores and scan items for points, which you can then use to redeem prizes.
If you have a manzanita thicket: trim and dry the branches and sell them online.
If you have a curly willow tree: trim, dry, and sell the twisting branches online to craftspeople or to a local florist, as they are commonly used as accent pieces in bouquets.

,
If you have a pine tree: sell the pinecones that flood your yard every fall.
If you live by the beach: sell driftwood, which can be used for crafts or, if the pieces are large and dense, as decorations in marine aquariums.

,
If you have a pond: pick and dry the cattails before the downy seeds begin shedding and sell them as decorations for bouquets (or even bunched together as stand-alone bouquets).
If you have a tree drowning in mistletoe: cut the mistletoe down, turn it into festive, ribbon-wrapped bunches, and sell it around the holidays.

,
If you are selling something that you know or can verify hasn’t been treated: you can even advertise it as being organic, which might heighten interest and allow you to increase the price.

,
If you don’t have access to any of these items: get paid to collect them from other people.
Become a moving advertisement.
Rent out a space.
Try affiliate marketing.
Sell CDs and/or DVDs.
Sell hair, plasma, or other body parts/fluids.
Read How to Make Money Fast for more ideas.

