
You will start in the Dungeons of Doom.
If you hear a shop, find it.
Sacrifice some corpses to make your god happy, and if you kill enough monsters, you might get an artifact!
,
This is a huge level, and a great place to get experience and useful tools.
Bring an engraving tool to write "Elbereth", as crowds are common.
,
Bring gold pieces.
Avoid traps.
Kick gray stones.
Kill gnomes that are near you, to get useful tools and things to to sell at Minetown.
,
Once you get to Minetown, start shopping!,
Go to the Mine's End when you are advanced because there are very hard monsters.
'If you're chaotic, kill everythingchaotic gods will not mind if you kill the peaceful humans in Minetown, and will like it if you steal things.
The Oracle will give you advice, experience points, and increase your score.
Break apart the statues nearby, using a pick-axe or a wand of striking, to get spell books.
,
Descend, and come back to Delphi to get more experience and score points.To get to Sokoban you have to climb up, somewhere beneath the Oracle’s level.
Move boulders so they plug holes, so you can cross and go to the next level.
,
Go up 3 levels to get to the last level.
You deserve a reward!,
Get lots of experience points, or take the safe way.
Step into a magic portal.
Bring reflection or magic resistance.
Bring a scroll of enchant armor, because there will be dragons, and you might want to make dragon scale mail.
,
There will be a fort surrounded with a moat.
Inside the right side the fort lies a huge number of monsters, and Croesus.
Take the loot!,
All roles get different quests.
Go fast, because crowds are common.
Get tips.
Get the quest artifact and the bell.
Bring reflection such as an amulet of reflection, or silver dragon scale mail.
Levitate, jump, swim, or walk on the water.
If possible, stay away from water.
The Castle is the gateway to Gehennom, which lies directly beneath the Castle.
Bring forms of transport over water.
Play a game of Mastermind to crack the 5-digit code.
Get the wand of wishing.
Go further to find four dragons hidden in a secret corridor behind the throne.
Fall through one of the trap doors to go to Gehennom.