
Figure out what kind of lifestyle you want to live.
Determine what needs your home must meet.
Find a location to either park the trailer base or to build your tiny house in situ.
Map out all the things you want in your house.
Scale the design so that the dimensions of your model will be accurate when building the house.
Work out the budget by concentrating on the main elements involved.
Work out the appliance budget.
Determine what you can do yourself.
Figure out the cost of labour for professionals (i.e.
Cost the tools you will need for your build.
Put together a materials list.
Include solar power elements, as needed.
Level the trailer using jacks for the trailer.
Build a frame on the trailer that your house will be built.
Add galvanized sheet metal to flash the bottom of the trailer.
Put a floor frame on top.Install the sub floor on top.
Build the walls as you had designed in your floor plans.
Double check that the windows and door fit in the spaces you made for them.
Sheath the walls while they are still down.Secure the walls to the trailer with anchors.
Make sure that walls are perfectly parallel with each other before installing the rafters.
Construct the trusses per the plans that you made.
Begin the sheathing process.Apply the Tyvek covering for more protection on the sheathing boards.Install the reflection barrier followed by the furring strips and shingles.Make sure that door and window holes were cut in the walls that were put up.Put Tyvek wrap outside the house for protection,
Tuck the Tyvek wrapping into the window cut outs.
Install the windows and secure with a couple screws along the side.
Apply flashing tape to the outside of the window to insure it is sealed.
Install the door.Install locks and door knobs.
Begin the siding process by taping the Tyvek seams and installing the furring strips.Hang the siding with a nail gun or as the product describes.End the work on the outside by installing fascia boards and a drip edge.
Install a lofted platform at an optimal height for the sleeping area.
Get electrical and plumbing installed by a professional at this point.
Begin insulating the home from the inside.
Install the major fixtures now.
Install the desired flooring.Install drywall and/or wall panels.
Construct the cabinets and counter tops for the kitchen.
Construct and install the bathroom vanity and storage.
Build in the storage units as per the initial design.Put in bulbs and outlet covers.
Decorate as desired.