
Locate potential venues


Locate a venue where you could host the event for two consecutive weekends.
Plan Your Supplies


Determine what supplies you will need to host a catalyst week.
Determine the Scale


Based on the available venues, determine a rough number of people who should participate in the catalyst week.
Validate the Event Cost


Add up the cost of all your supplies and your venue.
Sell Tickets


Once you have your venue secured, you can start signing up attendees.
Seek Sponsorships (Optional)


Talk to local businesses, governments, and other organizations about the event and ask them to sponsor it.
Seek Judges


Find some objective representatives in your community who can volunteer to judge your catalyst week.
Advertise


Tell people in your community about the event by attending gatherings for the type of workers you want to attract.
Find experts


Talk with the attendees who have signed up already to determine what types of experts may be most helpful.
Find Volunteers


Find additional members of the community to help you facilitate the event.
Obtain Your Supplies


As the event draws closer, make sure to arrange for food and all of your supplies ahead of time.
Prepare the space


Before the event begins, make sure the venue is clean and ready.
Break the Ice


As your attendees arrive, have some games and activities that will help them mingle and interact.
Brainstorm Goals


This activity should be done during or after a meal on the first night.
Form Teams


Everyone should join a team that will work on at least one of the goals for the week.
Facilitate the 1st Intensive Work Period


The teams should work intensively toward their goals for the next two days.
Return to Normal Routines


Attendees should go back to their normal routines, except for any meetings they schedule as part of the catalyst week.
Coordinate Expert Meetings


Help the teams coordinate meetings with the experts who have volunteered their time.
Arrange Optional Events


If you have the venue available all week, you may want to schedule presentations or other events that will help all of the teams.
Facilitate the 2nd Intensive Work Period


The teams should work intensively toward their goals until the final day.
Review and Assess Accomplishments


On the final day, the teams should spend all of their time reviewing what they were able to accomplish.
Present Results


If you do presentations over dinner, there is less time pressure to present.
Determine Winners and Award Prizes


The judges will convene to determine the winners of catalyst week.
Celebrate


Make time on the final night for everyone to mingle and relax.