
Open your multri-tracking program.

Add EQ8 parametric equalizer into your inserts as your first effect in the chain.
Remove any unnecessary low end.For band 1, click on the “Type” control and switch to “High Pass”.
Click and drag from inside the “Freq” box and change the value to 125Hz.
Use a bell filter to tidy up the low end a bit.For band 2, change the gain from 0 to -5.Change the frequency of band 2 to about 180.
If necessary, adjust the “Q” a bit to widen the range of frequencies band 2 affects.
Apply the bell filter to any other frequencies in need of adjustment.

Add DeEsser after EQ8 in your insert chain.
Play a 4 second clip of some vocals with some S' s being pronounced on repeat.
While your 4 second clip of "S" is playing on repeat, bring the threshold to about -36.
Find the "S" center frequency.Increase or decrease the threshold until the "S"'s sound natural.
Add A C1 Compressor following DeEsser in your insert chain.
Consider how much compression you need.
Set the ratio to 4.00:1.
Set your threshold to somewhere between -15 and -25.
Adjust your “Makeup”.
Add Stereo Mod II Delay next in your insert chain.
Your basic Waves delays come in short, medium and long.
This delay is being added to vocals to add a small amount of difference between the left and the right.
Pan the left to the center, and leave the right on the right.In the plug in window, turn the delay on the left channel down to zero.Turn the delay on the right channel to 14.84ms.
Turn the gain for the right channel down to -21dB.
Use your ears to decide if this effect helps you achieve the sound you are looking for.
Add reverb next in your vocal track's insert chain.
Bring Size down to an appropriately sized room.Turn down the Time control if you want the reverb to cut out sooner.
Turn down Wet/Dry to somewhere between 5 and 10.
Identify the points where you want your effect 'instances'.
Listen to your piece and identify where you want preverb.
Create two mono audio tracks.
Copy a single word or short phrase from the vocal track to both new audio tracks.
Reverse the audio in Preverb L and Preverb R. Every multi-tracking program does this differently.
After the audio is reversed, select the phrase on both Preverb L and Preverb R. Include about 5 seconds of empty space after your phrase in your selection as shown below:,

Now process the audio with a stereo reverb.

Next, reverse the audio again:
,


,
Notice that the processed waveforms are no longer lined up with the audio that originally generated them.

Make sure Preverb L is panned hard left, and Preverb R is panned hard right.
Delay/Prelay.

Now slide the waveform in the Delay track a small amount to the left:
,

You can also slide the waveform the other direction to change this instance from prelay to delay.You may have to loop the audio and slide the waveform in the Delay track around a bit to find the optimum placement.
Bullhorn Vocals.