
Change your activities to prevent stress to the vaginal walls.If you have only mild vaginal prolapse, your doctor will likely recommend modifying your activities to avoid heavy lifting and/or straining.
Consider trying a device meant to support the vaginal walls.Something called a "vaginal pessary" is a circular device, usually made of soft plastic or rubber, that is inserted into your vagina.
Perform Kegel exercises to strengthen your pelvic floor muscles.Kegel exercises strengthen the pelvic floor muscles - these function to support the uterus and vagina, as well as the bladder, the small intestine, and the rectum.
Ask your doctor about estrogen replacement therapy as a method to treat vaginal prolapse.Many cases of vaginal prolapse occur following menopause.
Know that vaginal surgery is the mainstay of treatment for more severe vaginal prolapse.While strategies such as activity modification, pessaries, Kegel exercises, and estrogen replacement therapy can be helpful, moderate to severe cases of vaginal prolapse may need to be treated with surgery.
Ask about anesthesia during surgical procedures.Most people are put under general anesthesia while they undergo surgery for vaginal prolapse.
Educate yourself about what to expect during surgery for vaginal prolapse.Vaginal surgery is the mainstay of treatment followed by laparoscopic surgery.
Avoid heavy lifting and other similar activities while you recover.In the first six to nine weeks after surgery, it is important to avoid heavy lifting, as well as any other activities that may increase the pressure or stress on your abdominal or pelvic areas.
Consider weight loss to prevent recurrence of your prolapse.If you are overweight or obese, this puts additional stress on the muscles and ligaments within your pelvis and vagina.
Be aware of your expected recovery from vaginal prolapse.While the specifics of recovery may vary on a case-by-case basis (depending upon the severity of your prolapse), surgery is generally very successful at treating vaginal prolapse.