
Gather information about applying to West Point.Learning as much as you can about West Point ahead of time will make you a more competitive applicant.
Excel academically.
Be an active leader.A West Point education is about training students to be leaders as well as academic successes.
Be physically active.West Point emphasizes physical fitness for all students, and expects applicants to demonstrate a high level of activity.
Join the West Point mailing list.Visit the West Point admissions page to enter your contact information and join its mailing list.
Visit the West Point campus.Scheduling an individual and/or group visit to the West Point campus is an excellent way to get a sense of the school’s atmosphere, and to ask questions about it.
Take the SAT or ACT.
Contact your regional field force representative.A West Point field force representative can serve as a contact point for any questions you may have about applying.
Start your application early.The West Point application process entails many components, so it is critical to start early and plan ahead.
Complete the candidate questionnaire.This document serves as an initial screening point, helping you and West Point determine if you are eligible to apply, by meeting some basic requirements such as:


You must be at least 17 but not yet 23
You must not be married
You cannot be pregnant or have a legal obligation to support a child
You must be a U.S. citizen unless you are applying as an international cadet (a process that has additional requirements)

,
Apply as an international cadet.
Apply as a current soldier.
Apply to attend the Summer Leaders Experience (SLE).The SLE is an optional, week-long program attended by certain applicants the summer before their senior year of high school.
Gather letters of nomination.
Submit school transcripts.You must request transcripts from all academic programs you have attended (i.e. high school and any college credits), and arrange to have them sent to West Point as part of your application.
Submit the School Official Evaluation (SOE).An SOE is a document submitted by your school counselor (or equivalent) that describes your academic performance, curricular and extracurricular activities, and overall character.
Complete and submit the Candidate Statement.The candidate statement is an important part of your application, because it is an opportunity for you to explain in writing your motivations for wanting to attend West Point, how it fits into your future plans, etc.
Complete the Candidate Fitness Assessment (CFA).The CFA is a multi-part physical fitness test that you must pass in order to be admitted to West Point (in addition to academic and other requirements).
Complete the Qualifying Medical Examination (QME).The QME measures your overall health, to assess your readiness for requirements at West Point and for military service.
Submit your application.
Receive your admissions decision notification.