
Make sure your iOS device's operating system supports jailbreaking.
Disable your device's passcode.
Disable Find My iPhone.
Update iTunes to the latest version.
Connect your iPhone, iPad, or iPod to your computer.
Back up your device's data.
Place your device in Airplane mode.
Proceed to your iOS version's method below.
Make sure your iOS device is jailbreak-compatible.
Go to the Yalu jailbreak webpage.
Click the "Download Yalu jailbreak IPA -10.2" link.
Click the "Download Cydia Impactor" link.
Click the link that pertains to your computer's operating system.
Double-click the ZIP folder.
Double-click the "Impactor" application.
Click and drag the "Yalu" file onto the installer window.
Enter your Apple ID email address.
Click OK.
Enter your Apple ID password.
Click OK. As long as your Apple ID credentials are correct, Yalu will begin installing onto your iOS device.
Open Yalu on your iOS device.
Tap go.
Wait for your device to finish restarting.
Go to the Pangu jailbreak website.
Click Download & Help, then click Download.
Launch Pangu on your computer.
Click Start to begin the jailbreak.
Click Already backed up.
Wait for the initial part of the jailbreak to complete.
Unlock your iOS device and tap the Pangu app when prompted.
Allow Pangu access to your photos.
Wait for the jailbreak to complete.
Launch Cydia.
Avoid updating iOS.
Download TaiG.
Open the TaiG program.
Uncheck the "3K Assistant" box.
Click Start in the TaiG window.
Open Cydia when prompted.
Wait for Cydia to configure and reboot.
Avoid future updates.
Download Pangu.
Double-click the Pangu setup file.
Click the Jailbreak button.
Follow the prompts to change the date of your iOS device.
Open the Pangu app on your iOS device at 50 percent.
Wait for the jailbreak process to complete.
Launch the Cydia app.
Download evasi0n7.
Double-click the "evasi0n7" folder.
Double-click the "evasi0n7" app.
Click Jailbreak.
Follow any prompts in the evasi0n7 window.
Wait for the jailbreak process to complete.
Launch the Cydia app.
Launch Cydia again.