
Keep liquids away from your laptop.
Having antivirus software available is the best defence against a virus.
Keep food away from your laptop.
Do not use your computer in a room where animals are.
Ideally keep the computer in a clean and dust free room.

,
Always have clean hands when using your laptop.
Protect the LCD display monitor.
Hold and lift the computer by its base, not by its LCD display (the screen).
Don't pull on the power cord.
Be careful not to roll your chair over the computer cord.
Be sure to plug accessory devices into their proper slots.
Handle any removable drives with care.
Insert drives into their slots carefully and at the correct angle.
Check to see if labels are affixed securely before inserting media into your laptop.
Don't expose your laptop to rapid temperature changes.
Don't leave your laptop in a car.
Have the unit cleaned annually to remove internal dust.
Avoid placing heavy materials, such as books, on top of your laptop.
Use a properly-sized laptop case.
Look into getting a laptop bag.
Only use and store your laptop in a well-ventilated area.
Use an old toothbrush to clean the area around the exhaust fan screen.
Try to keep the laptop on a flat, clean surface.
Don't use your laptop on the bed.
Always check that your laptop does not have too much of software and bloat-wares running around as they keep eating the precious memory which is required for playing games or doing other high-end tasks.

,
Make sure that while downloading stuff from the web you do not download unwanted installers which are usually created to install unwanted softwares which are provided as freeware for providing the file which you require.

,
Also its preferable that you use a cleanup software like tune up utilities or c cleaner etc.
If possible do a clean install of the operating system you use once every 2 to 3 years.
If you are already on a device with low ram then do not trouble the device with programs which accelerate the processor,it is better if you switch over to another hard drive or pendrive to provide a bit of external ram and provides a bit of breathing space to the computers internals.

,
For providing external RAM in windows laptops there is an option called windows ready boost which gives an allocated space to be used as the virtual ram for the computer instead of being completely dependent on the internal memory provided.

,
Do not try to run large or unsupported multimedia files over your computer if your computer does not meet the specifications as it usually damages the computer in the long run.

,
It is also better if you head over to the local store and check for a complete maintenance check to solve any errors which keep troubling you.

,
Take care that if you use a laptop not to use it in places full of dust flying around as it may block the heat escape routes over a period of time and thereby make your laptop much hotter than usual.

