
Know the notations.Choose your FC.
Find a face that has your FC.Find a corner cube that belongs beside the cube on the U face.
Turn the D face until the desired cube is under where you want it to be.
If your FC on the corner cube is on the R face: R' D' R.
If your FC on the corner cube is on the F face: F D F'.
If your FC on the corner cube is on the D face: R' D2 R D R' D' R.Do these steps until the whole up face is done.
Down Face








Look at the down face and figure out what colour the down face is.
The first step is to position all of the cubes (The bottom face is made up of 4 cubes.
Swap FLD and FRD cubes: R' D' R F D F' R' D R D2.
Swap FLD and BRD cubes: R' D' R F D2 F' R' D R D2.
When all the cubes are positioned, the next step is to orient them.After that, use the face that is currently at the top as the front to do one of these sequences:,
For patterns 1, 5, 6, and 7, do: R' D' R D' R' D2 R D2.
For patterns 2, 3, and 4, do: D2 R' D2 R D R' D R.Continue the orientation sequences until the cube is solved.
Finished.








,
Use the basic 'Down Left Up Right' algorithm to get the first layer finished, then the second layer.
Find a color that you like.
Get two FC blocks next to each other.








,
Find another FC block, and put it next to the other two by simply twisting it up, or by moving the other blocks out of the way, moving the third FC block up, and moving the first two back onto their original positions.








,
Repeat this algorithm until all of the FC blocks are facing one way and on one layer.








,
Now find the two FC blocks that have one pair of corner colours the same.
Use the down up left right algorithm continuously until it is the right way up and the corners match one of the first two FC blocks' corners.
Congrats!,
Then go: Down up left right, down up left right, until one of the blocks is facing the right way.
Turn the top layer to your left (looking from the top, twist clockwise).
Repeat the turn, and repeat the algorithm and turn twice more.
Brag.
Place the corners with the classic algorithm.
OLL.
PLL.
Solve the white face.

Your cube should now look like the cube shown above: the white face solved, with the red and green layers above it.
Solve the yellow face.
Solve a third face.
Turn the cube so that the most recently completed face is facing away from you.
Repeatedly do "U-turns" until the cube is solved.

