
Identify and understand the purposes of your opening statement.
Identify and understand what content belongs in your opening statement.
Identify and understand your audience and what your tone should be.
Write your introductory remarks.Be aggressive here and give the jurors a good impression of your case.Begin with remarks that summarize the case, state your theme, and arouse the interest of the jurors.The first couple of minutes during your opening statement is when all the jurors are likely paying the most attention, so you want to capture them immediately.Consider the following example: "On January 23, 2001, Chris McGuigan walked into Riverside Hospital through the front door to have a minor operation to remove a growth on her arm.
Introduce your actors, places, and things.In this section you want to first introduce your client, followed by an introduction of other important witnesses.When you introduce your client, you want to make him or her seem real and likeable.At the end of the day, the jury is going to see your client throughout the trial so you want them to relate to and empathize with your client.
Identify your disputes.When you identify the points of contention in your case, you want to tell the jury in plain language what is claimed in the complaint and how the complaint was answered.You want to state the general nature of the disputes the jury will have to resolve while making sure you are not attacking your opponent's case at this stage.
Tell your story.This is the body of your opening statement and should tell your story of what happened from your client's point of view.You want this section to be simple and easy to follow because this will be the jury's first impression of the facts.
Discuss your weaknesses.You want to bring up any glaring weaknesses in your case at the beginning in order to look honest, lessen the impact when your opponent brings them up, and it allows you to portray them in the most positive light possible.You want to keep this section as brief as possible and only bring up weaknesses that are going to emerge from your own presentation of evidence.Consider this good example: "At 9:00, Jim McCutcheon left the steak house, and got into his car to head home.
Provide a conclusion.Your conclusion should summarize the theme of your case and you should ask the jury for a specific verdict.You can accomplish this by suggesting that the evidence adds up to a favorable outcome.Look at this example to see how to effectively summarize your case and ask the jury for a verdict: "The bottom line is that the evidence will show that the defendant knew what he was doing when he killed Boyd Farnam.
Prepare your speech for the day of the trial.
Practice your opening statement in front of an audience or in front of a mirror.Practicing will help you become comfortable with your delivery and timing.Also, practicing with others will allow you to get feedback from friends, family, and/or colleagues regarding your content and mannerisms.

,
Make final changes if necessary.