
Build the top.
Measure 12 inches (30.5 cm) from one side, and 9 inches (22.9 cm) from the end that you decide will be the top.
Draw the hole.
Drill a hole right on the inside of the circle you have just made, up against the pencil circle.
Insert the blade of your jigsaw and cut the hole.
Wrap a piece of sandpaper around a cylinder of some sort.
Cut all of your wood.
Cut 2 of the 2x4s so that each is 21 inches (53.3 cm) long (these will be the ends of the frame).
Build the frame.
Using the drill and 2 ½ inch wood screws, screw the boards together by drilling from the outside of the 48-inch board into the end of the 21-inch board where both boards meet.
Place your board top on top of the frame.
Use 10 long drywall screws to attach the board top to the frame.
Countersink the screws so that you can cover them with putty later on.

,
Take one of the 16-inch pieces of wood.
Place the ruler at the end of your wood and measure 1 3/4 inches (or whatever the length to the middle of the board was in the previous step.),
Take your drawing compass (or homemade drawing compass) and place the point directly in the center of the ‘t’ you have just made.
Turn your cornhole table over so that it is face down.
Place one of the legs against the scrap wood so that it lies with the markings you have made facing outward.
Transfer the leg’s midpoint line onto the frame.
Make a small hole at the intersection point with an extra screw.
Using a drill or power driver, drill a screw or bolt through the mark you have made.
Measure from the top of the board to the ground.
Flip the board back over and saw the legs to your measurement.
Use a putty knife to put wood filler into any holes or cracks on your board.
Sand the surface of your table.
Apply a thin layer of primer paint to all visible surfaces of the board and legs.
Add a layer of white high-gloss latex paint.
Pick out your paint colors and design.
Paint the rest of your board with whatever color you choose.
Gather your supplies.
Cut the duck cloth into 7-inch by 7-inch squares.
Match 2 of the squares up so that they are perfectly aligned.
Put a line of fabric glue in between the edges of the two squares.
Flip your bag inside out.
Add 15.5 ounces of feed corn to each bag.
Measure 1/2 an inch in on the side that is still open.
Sew the final side shut.