
Make sure that your hair is long enough.
Make sure your hair is dry.
Straighten your hair.
Consider training your hair for a few weeks before cutting them.
If you want to color your hair, cut it first, then dye it.
Make sure that you have everything you need close by.
Separate your bangs from the rest of your hair, and tie the rest of your hair back.
Consider separating your bangs into a top layer and a bottom layer.
Take a 1 inch wide segment of hair close towards where you want the bangs to begin.This will likely be above your right or left eyebrow.
Smooth down any stray hairs using a comb and hold the segment taut between your fingers.
Cut the hair under your fingers using a pair of hair shears.
Drop another segment of hair and cut it 1/8 inch longer than the first one.
Continue dropping and cutting the hair.
Inspect your work and make any corrections.
Repeat the process with the upper layer of your bangs, if you divided them earlier.
Understand that you will need to re-color your hair regularly.
Consider getting your hair dyed at a salon, especially if you are going to bleach it.
Consider doing a strand test when bleaching and/or dyeing your hair at home.
Know what to expect if you have blond hair.
Know what to expect if you have dark hair.
Plan to work in the bathroom.
Make sure that you have everything on hand.
Wear appropriate clothes while dyeing or bleaching your bangs.
Purchase a hair bleaching kit and prepare the bleach according to the instructions if you are going to bleach your hair.
Use a tint brush to apply the bleach to the areas you want bleached.
Wait for the time recommended on the package.
Rinse the bleach out.
Choose your color.
Put some Vaseline around your hairline.
Prepare the dye.Most punk dyes already come pre-mixed, but some hair dyes need to be mixed together.
Apply the dye to the areas you want colored using a tint brush.
Consider placing your hair and bangs under a shower cap.
Rinse the dye off after the specified time.
Understand that emo hair doesn't have rules, but rather guidelines.
Straighten your bangs.
Add volume to your bangs.
Use styling products such as gels, waxes, or mousse to get the look you want.
Wear your bangs so that they cover half of your face.
Take good care of your hair.
Trim your hair regularly.