
Rest your eyes from contact lenses.Many contact lens wearers think of them as a replacement for glasses, but this is not at all the case.
Improve your hygiene practices.Do you clean your contact lenses as directed?,
Take your local environment into consideration.If you live somewhere with a particularly dry climate — the Midwest and Southwest United States, for example — that might be the cause of your unusually dry eyes.
Figure out how much time you spend with screens.It may be that you just enjoy surfing the web for hours at a time, or it may be that your job requires you to stare at a screen for hours every day.Either way, when you stare at a screen for long periods of time, you blink less often.
Look for other symptoms that suggest allergies.
See if your medications list dry eyes as a side effect.
Consult a doctor.
Seek immediate medical attention if necessary.
Try artificial tears.Artificial tear drops are available over-the-counter in any grocery store or pharmacy.
Use eye ointments.An eye ointment is a cream, rather than a liquid, that can treat eye dryness.
Look for specialized drops and ointments if needed.
Ask about antibiotic eye ointments.
Do not wear contact lenses while administering medications.Remove contacts before applying the drops or ointment, as medications can get absorbed into the lens.
Talk to your doctor about oral treatments.Many people have trouble applying eye drops and ointments directly to the eye, as it can be uncomfortable or unnerving.
Ask your eye care professional about special contact lenses.
Consider lacrimal gland plugs.These should be considered only if your doctor pinpoints inflamed lacrimal glands as the underlying cause of dryness.
Unblock blocked oil glands.If the oil glands in the area are blocked, your eyes will get dried out.
Relax your eyes from eyestrain.
Blink frequently.
Protect your eyes from the elements.The simple act of wearing sunglasses can make a big difference.
Purify and humidify the air in your home.
Keep your body hydrated.
Eat foods rich in Vitamins A, C and E and in Omega-3 fatty acids.
Get enough sleep.
Quit or cut back on smoking.Smoking is associated with a wide variety of eye problems, from macular degeneration to cataracts.
Reduce salt in your diet.